SAN BENITO COUNTY, CALIFORNIA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
Supplement 2025 S-28 contains Local Legislation
current through Ordinance 1078
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 www.amlegal.com
OFFICIALS
of the
COUNTY OF SAN BENITO, CALIFORNIA
Kollin Kosmicki, District No. 2 - Chair
Dom Zanger, District No. 1 - Vice Chair
Mindy Sotelo, District No. 3
Angela Curro, District No. 4
Ignacio Velazquez, District No. 5
Board of Supervisors
Henie Ring
County Administrative Officer, Interim
David Prentice
County Counsel
Vanessa Delgado
Clerk of the Board of Supervisors
 
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
BEFORE THE BOARD OF SUPERVISORS, COUNTY OF SAN BENITO
AN ORDINANCE OF THE COUNTY      )               ORDINANCE NO. 832
OF SAN BENITO, ENACTING THE      )
2008 EDITION OF THE CODE OF         )
ORDINANCES FOR THE COUNTY OF      )
SAN BENITO REVISING, AMENDING,      )
RESTATING, CODIFYING,            )
COMPILING AND REPEALING         )
CERTAIN ORDINANCES AS         )
SPECIFIED HEREIN               )
   WHEREAS, the County of San Benito is empowered and authorized, pursuant to
sections 25120 through 25131 and sections 50022 through 50022.10 of the
California Government Code, to revise, amend, restate, codify and compile any
existing ordinances and all new ordinances not heretofore adopted or published
and to incorporate such ordinances into one ordinance in book form;
   WHEREAS, the Board of Supervisors of the County of San Benito desires to
recodify certain provisions of the County of San Benito County Code in effect
as of January 6, 2009 up through and including Ordinance Number 827 and certain
amendments to the San Benito County Code which have not been previously
adopted, all of which are included in Exhibit A to this Ordinance;
   WHEREAS, the Board of Supervisors has authorized a general compilation,
revision and codification of the ordinances of the County of San Benito of a
general and permanent nature and publication of such ordinance in book form;
   WHEREAS, the Board of Supervisors intends that, upon adoption of this
Ordinance, Titles 1, 3, 5, 7, 9, 11, 13, 15, 17, 19, 21, 23 and 25, reserving
Titles 2, 4, 6, 8, 10, 12, 14, 16, 18, 20, 22 and 24 for later use, of the
County Code, shall constitute the complete County Code for the County of San
Benito, replacing, amending or recodifying all prior code sections;
   WHEREAS, Exhibit A is comprised of the newly codified amendments to the Code
as well as certain recodified provisions of the existing Code, which are
attached hereto and made a part of this Ordinance and when taken together, will
constitute the 2008 San Benito County Code;
   WHEREAS, except as set forth herein, the Board of Supervisors desires the
provisions contained in Exhibit A to supersede the existing San Benito County
Code as codified in 1966 and subsequently amended and any other conflicting
provisions of the existing San Benito County Code of Ordinances;
   WHEREAS, the Board of Supervisors has independently reviewed the Notice of
Exemption and its supporting documents in reaching the following findings,
which reflect the independent judgment of the County Supervisors;
   WHEREAS, the County has on file in the Office of the Clerk of the Board of
Supervisors, for public inspection, copies of Exhibit A, with the copy thereof
certified as a true copy by the Clerk of the Board of Supervisors;
   WHEREAS, the Code provisions to be adopted or recodified as set forth in
Exhibit A are consistent with the General Plan and serve to implement its
policies;
   WHEREAS, the Board of Supervisors has conducted a duly noticed public
hearing at which time it heard and considered public testimony regarding the
adoption of Exhibit A, including the newly codified amendments to the Code, and
the recodification of existing provisions of the Code.
The Board of Supervisors of the County of San Benito ordains as follows:
Section 1.   Recodification and Adoption of Certain Titles of the San Benito
County Code of Ordinances.
   The 2008 Edition of the San Benito County Code of Ordinances, as set forth
in Exhibit A, is hereby adopted pursuant to the provisions of Sections 25120
through 25131 and Sections 50022 through 50022.10 of the California Government
Code. Any amendments to the San Benito County Code of Ordinances, which have
not been previously adopted, are also set out in Exhibit A to this Ordinance,
and have been integrated into the newly codified Code and will take effect with
adoption of the Code. A copy of Exhibit A has been filed and is on file in the
office of the Clerk of the Board of Supervisors for public inspection, and each
and all of the provisions, terms and penalties of said Code on file in the
office of the Clerk of the Board of Supervisors are hereby referred to,
adopted, incorporated herein and made a part of this Ordinance as if fully set
forth in this Ordinance.
Section 2.   Repeal of Certain Ordinances and Certain Ordinances to Remain in
Effect.
   Except as otherwise provided in this Ordinance and Code adopted hereby, all
provisions of the 1966 Code are hereby repealed on the effective date of this
Ordinance.
Section 3.   Superseded Ordinances.
   All ordinances adopted and in effect as of the effective date of this
Ordinance, other than those listed on Exhibit A hereto, except as hereafter
provided, are superseded to the extent they conflict with the provisions of the
Code identified in Section 1 herein and adopted herein.
Section 4.   Effect on Past Actions and Obligations.
   The repealing provisions of the 2008 Edition of the San Benito County Code
shall not affect or impair any act done or right vested or approved, or any
proceeding, suit or prosecution had or commenced in any cause before such
repeal shall take effect; but every such act, vested right, proceeding, suit,
or prosecution shall remain in full force and effect for all purposes as if the
applicable provisions of the 1966 Code, or part thereof, had remained in force
and effect. No offense committed and no liability, penalty, or forfeiture,
either civil or criminal, incurred prior to the repeal or alteration of an
applicable provision of the 1966 Code as amended, shall be discharged or
affected by such appeal or alteration but prosecutions and suits for such
offenses, liabilities, penalties or forfeitures shall be instituted and proceed
in all respects as if the applicable provisions of the 1966 Code as amended,
had not been repealed or altered. No such repeal shall affect any ordinance or
resolution promising or guaranteeing the payment of money for the county or
authorizing the issue of any bonds of the county or any evidence of the
county's indebtedness or any contract or obligation assumed by the county; nor
shall it affect the provisions of ordinances levying taxes, appropriating
money, annexing or detaching territory, establishing franchises, or granting
special rights to certain persons, authorizing public improvements, authorizing
the purchase or sale of real or personal property, granting or accepting
easements, plat or dedication of land to public use; nor shall it affect any
ordinance naming, renaming, opening, accepting or vacating streets, highways,
roads or alleys in the county; nor shall it affect any ordinance which is
temporary, although general in effect, or special, although permanent in
effect, or pertaining to subjects not contained in or covered by the 2008
Edition of the San Benito County Code; nor shall it affect any ordinance
relating to the classification or compensation of the county officers or
employees; nor shall it affect any ordinance relating to any zoning map; nor
shall it affect any ordinance or amendment thereto pertaining to participation
in the state employees' retirement system or the licensing of businesses.
Section 5.   Adoption of Notice of Exemption.
   Based on the Notice of Exemption and the record before the Board of
Supervisors, and for the reasons stated in the Notice of Exemption, the Board
of Supervisors finds that the proposed Code provisions as approved are exempt
pursuant to California Public Resources Code section 21083 (California
Environmental Quality Act [CEQA]) and California Code of Regulations title 14
section 15061(b)(3) [14 CCR § 15061(b)(3) (CEQA Guidelines)], because it can be
seen with certainty that there is no possibility that revising, amending,
restating, codifying and compiling existing ordinances and all new ordinances
not heretofore adopted or published, and incorporating such ordinances into one
ordinance in book form may have a significant effect on the environment and
because it does not meet the definition of a "project" subject to environmental
review under CEQA, as defined in CEQA Guideline 15378(a) [14 CCR § 15378(a)].
Instead, it merely involves organizational or administrative activities of the
County of San Benito that will not result in direct or indirect physical
changes in the environment, as defined in CEQA Guideline 15378(b)(5) [14 CCR §
15378(b)(5)].
Section 6.   Severability, Savings and Resurrection Provisions.
   To the extent the provisions of the 2008 Edition of the San Benito County
Code as amended by this Ordinance are substantially the same as the provisions
of that Code as they read immediately prior to the adoption of this Ordinance,
then those provisions shall be construed as continuations of the earlier
provisions and not as new enactments.
   If any section, subsection, sentence, clause, phrase or portion of this
Ordinance, or the Code adopted by it, is for any reason held to be invalid or
unconstitutional by the decision of any court of competent jurisdiction, such
decision shall not affect the validity of the remaining portions of this
Ordinance, or the Code adopted by it.
   Further, if for any reason any section, subsection, sentence, clause, phrase
or portion of this Ordinance or the Code adopted by it is held invalid or
cannot be implemented according to its terms, the Board of Supervisors intends
that the ordinance provisions which would have been amended or affected by the
invalid provisions of the Ordinance or Code adopted by it shall remain in
effect as if this Ordinance had not been adopted.
   The Board of Supervisors hereby declares that it would have adopted this
Ordinance, the Code adopted by it and each section, subsection, sentence,
clause, phrase, or portion thereof, irrespective of the fact that any one or
more sections, subsections, phrases, or portions be declared invalid or
unconstitutional.
Section 7.   References on Signage, Notices and Documents of Continuing Legal
Effect.
   References to San Benito County Code sections cited on signage within the
County, notices issued by the County and other documents of ongoing or
continuing legal effect, until updated to reflect the numbering scheme of the
Code adopted hereby, are deemed to be references to the counterpart sections of
the Code adopted by this Ordinance for the purposes of notice and enforcement.
The provisions adopted hereby shall not in any manner affect deposits or other
matters of record which refer to, or are otherwise connected with, ordinances
which are specifically designated by number, code section or otherwise, but
such references shall be deemed to apply to the corresponding provisions set
forth in the Code adopted hereby.
Section 8.   Table of Contents and Defined Terms.
   The Table of Contents appearing at the beginning and the Statutory
References, Tables and Index appearing at the end of the 2008 Edition of the
San Benito County Code, are not adopted by this Ordinance, but are included for
convenience only, and shall be editorially changed from time to time to conform
with amendments and additions to this Code. The titles and headings to the
sections hereunder are not part of this ordinance or of the 2008 Edition of the
San Benito County Code, and shall have no effect upon the construction or
interpretation of any part hereof.
Section 9.   Voter Approved Ordinances.
   The 2008 Edition of the San Benito County Code, as adopted by this
Ordinance, codifies voter-approved ordinances. It is not the intent of this
Ordinance to change the substance of those voter-approved ordinances and the
2008 Edition of the San Benito County Code shall be interpreted in the light of
that intent.
Section 10.   Certification and Publication.
   The Clerk of the Board of Supervisors shall certify to the passage and
adoption of this Ordinance and shall cause a summary of the same to be
published once, with the names of the members of the Board of Supervisors
voting for and against the ordinance in a newspaper of general circulation in
the County of San Benito, State of California, before expiration of fifteen
(15) days after passage of this ordinance. The Clerk of the Board of
Supervisors is further directed and authorized to insert the date of adoption
of this Ordinance in the appropriate places in the 2008 Edition of the San
Benito County Code.
Section 11.   Effective Date.
   This Ordinance shall take effect and be in full force and effect thirty (30)
days after its passage and adoption. The 2008 Edition of the San Benito County
Code shall be presumptive evidence in all courts and places of the ordinance
and all provisions, sections, penalties and regulations therein contained, and
of the date of passage, and that the same is properly signed, attested,
recorded and approved, and that any public hearings and notices thereof as
required by law have been given.
Introduced at a regular meeting of the Board of Supervisors held on the 25th
day of November, 2008. Final passage and adoption by the Board of Supervisors
of the County of San Benito was at a regular meeting of said Board, following a
duly noticed public hearing held on the 6th day of January, 2009, by the
following vote:
Ayes:      Supervisor(s):   MONACO, LOE, BARRIOS, BOTELHO
Noes:      Supervisor(s):   DE LA CRUZ
Absent:   Supervisor(s):   NONE
Abstaining:   Supervisor(s):   NONE
   By:                                                  
            , Chair
ATTEST:                              APPROVED AS TO LEGAL FORM:
Linda Churchill                           San Benito County Counsel's Office
Clerk of the Board of Supervisors
By:                                                         By: Shirley L.
Murphy /s/
                         Shirley L. Murphy, Deputy County Counsel
Date:                                                       Date: Dec. 23, 2008
   AN ORDINANCE OF THE COUNTY OF SAN BENITO, ENACTING THE 2008 EDITION OF THE
CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR THE COUNTY OF SAN BENITO REVISING, AMENDING, RESTATING,
CODIFYING, COMPILING AND REPEALING CERTAIN ORDINANCES AS SPECIFIED HEREIN
EXHIBIT A
2008 EDITION OF THE SAN BENITO COUNTY CODE, copy on file with the Clerk of the
Board of Supervisors and available for public inspection;
Ordinance No. 828: Setting the Compensation for the Board of Supervisors,
adopted by the San Benito County Board of Supervisors on May 14, 2008, copy on
file with the Clerk of the Board of Supervisors and available for public
inspection;
Ordinance No. 829: Amending Chapter 17 (section 17-63), Subdivision, adopted by
the San Benito County Board of Supervisors on July 2, 2008, copy on file with
the Clerk of the Board of Supervisors and available for public inspection.
TITLE 1: GENERAL PROVISIONS; CODE ENFORCEMENT
   Chapter
      
1.01.   RULES OF CONSTRUCTION
      
1.03.   CODE ENFORCEMENT
      
1.04.   ADMINISTRATIVE CITATIONS
      
1.05.   PUBLIC ENTITY OFFSET DISPUTE
      
1.06.   ALTERNATIVE PUBLIC NUISANCE ABATEMENT PROCEDURES AND REMEDIES
      
1.07.   OFFICE OF THE COUNTY HEARING OFFICER
CHAPTER 1.01: RULES OF CONSTRUCTION
Section
   
1.01.001   How code designated and cited
   
1.01.002   Definitions and rules of construction
   
1.01.003   Effect of repeal of ordinances
   
1.01.004   Catchlines of sections
   
1.01.005   Provisions considered as continuations of existing ordinances
   
1.01.006   Severability of parts of code
   
1.01.007   General penalty; continuing violations
   
1.01.008   Authority to require prisoners to labor on public works and the like
Statutory reference:
   Authority of counties to enforce regulations not in conflict with the
general law, see Constitution Art. XI, § 11
§ 1.01.001 HOW CODE DESIGNATED AND CITED.
   The ordinances embraced in the following chapters and sections shall
constitute and be designated “The Code of San Benito County, California”, and
may be so cited. It may also be cited as the “San Benito County Code”.
(1966 Code, § 1-1) (Ord. 1073, § 3 (part), 2024)
§ 1.01.002 DEFINITIONS AND RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   For the purposes of this code, the following words and phrases shall have
the meanings respectively ascribed to them by this section.
   BOARD OF SUPERVISORS. The Board of Supervisors of San Benito County.
   CODE. The Code of San Benito County, California.
   COMPUTATION OF TIME. The time in which any act provided by law is to be done
is computed by excluding the first day and including the last day, unless the
last day is a holiday and then it is also excluded.
   COUNTY. The County of San Benito.
   DAY. A period of time between any midnight and the midnight following.
   DAYTIME, NIGHTTIME. DAYTIME is the period of time between sunrise and
sunset. NIGHTTIME is the period of time between sunset and sunrise.
   GENDER. The masculine gender includes the feminine and neuter.
   HIGHWAYS. The whole of all public ways, roads, alleys, courts and streets
and sidewalks between the property lines forming the exterior lateral
boundaries thereof, and those parts of public squares and places which form
traveled parts of highways.
   IN THE COUNTY. All territory over which the county now has, or shall
hereafter acquire, jurisdiction for the exercise of its police powers or other
regulatory powers.
   JOINT AUTHORITY. All words giving a joint authority to three or more public
officers or other persons shall be construed as giving such authority to a
majority of them, unless it is otherwise expressed in the act giving the
authority.
   MONTH. A calendar month, unless otherwise expressed.
   NUMBER. The singular number includes the plural, and the plural, the
singular.
   OATH. Affirmation.
   OFFICERS, DEPARTMENTS AND THE LIKE. Officers, departments, boards,
commissions and employees referred to shall mean officers, departments, boards,
commissions and employees of the County of San Benito unless the context
clearly indicates otherwise.
   OFFICIAL TIME. Whenever certain hours are named herein, they shall mean
Pacific Standard Time or Daylight Saving Time as may be in current use in the
county.
   OWNER. Applied to a building or land, shall include any part owner, joint
owner, tenant in common, tenant in partnership, joint or tenant by the entirety
of the whole or a part of the building or land.
   PERSON. Any person, firm, association, organization, partnership, limited
liability company, business trust, corporation, or company.
   PERSONAL PROPERTY. Every species of property, except real property, as
herein defined.
   PRECEDING, FOLLOWING. Next before and next after, respectively.
   PROCESS. Includes a writ or summons issued in the course of judicial
proceedings of either a civil or criminal nature.
   PROPERTY. Real and personal property.
   REAL PROPERTY. Lands, tenements and hereditaments.
   SHALL, MAY. SHALL is mandatory and MAY is permissive.
   SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION BY MARK. Includes a mark when the signer or
subscriber cannot write, such signer’s or subscriber’s name being written near
the mark by a witness who writes his or her own name near the signer’s or
subscriber’s name; but a SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION BY MARK can be acknowledged
or can serve as a signature or subscription to a sworn statement only when two
witnesses so sign their own names thereto.
   STATE. The State of California.
   TENANT or OCCUPANT. Applied to a building or land, shall include any person
holding a written or an oral lease of or who occupies, the whole or a part of
the building or land, either alone or with others.
   TENSES. The present tense includes the past and future tenses, and the
future includes the present.
   WEEK. A week consists of seven consecutive days.
   WRITING. Any form of recorded message capable of comprehension by ordinary
visual means. Whenever any notice, report, statement or record is required or
authorized by this code, it shall be made in writing in the English language
unless it is expressly provided otherwise.
   YEAR. A period of 365 days; “half year,” 182 days; “quarter of a year,” 91
days. The added day of a leap year, and the day immediately preceding, if they
occur in any such period, shall be reckoned together as one day.
(1966 Code, § 1-2) (Ord. 1073, § 3 (part), 2024)
Statutory reference:
   “Computation of time”, see Cal. Gov’t Code § 6800
   “Day”, see Cal. Gov’t Code § 6806
   “Daytime”, see Cal. Gov’t Code § 6807
   “Gender”, see Cal. Gov’t Code § 12
   “Joint authority”, see Cal. Civil Code § 12
   “Month”, see Cal. Gov’t Code § 6804
   “Number”, see Cal. Gov’t Code § 13
   “Oath”, see Cal. Gov’t Code § 15
   “Person”, see Cal. Gov’t Code § 17
   “Personal property”, see Cal. Civil Code §§ 14, 663
   “Process”, see Cal. Gov’t Code § 22
   “Property”, see Cal. Civil Code § 14
   “Real property”, see Cal. Civil Code §§ 14, 658
   “Shall, may”, see Cal. Gov’t Code § 14
   “Signature, subscription by mark”, see Cal. Gov’t Code § 16
   “Tenses”, see Cal. Gov’t Code § 11
   “Week”, see Cal. Gov’t Code § 6805
   “Writing”, see Cal. Gov’t Code § 8
   “Year”, see Cal. Gov’t Code § 6803
§ 1.01.003 EFFECT OF REPEAL OF ORDINANCES.
   (A)   The repeal of an ordinance shall not revive any ordinances in force
before or at the time the ordinance repealed took effect.
   (B)   The repeal of an ordinance shall not affect any punishment or penalty
incurred before the repeal took effect, nor any suit, prosecution or proceeding
pending at the time of the repeal, for any offense committed under the
ordinance repealed.
(1966 Code, § 1-3) (Ord. 1073, § 3 (part), 2024)
§ 1.01.004 CATCHLINES OF SECTIONS.
   The catchlines of the several sections of this code are intended as mere
catchwords to indicate the contents of the section and shall not be deemed, or
taken to be, titles of the section, nor as any part of the section, nor, unless
expressly so provided, shall they be so deemed when any of the sections,
including the catchlines, are amended or re-enacted.
(1966 Code, § 1-4) (Ord. 1073, § 3 (part), 2024)
§ 1.01.005 PROVISIONS CONSIDERED AS CONTINUATIONS OF EXISTING ORDINANCES.
   The provisions appearing in this code, so far as they are in substance the
same as those of ordinances existing at the time of the effective date of this
code, shall be considered as continuations thereof and not as new enactments.
(1966 Code, § 1-5) (Ord. 1073, § 3 (part), 2024)
§ 1.01.006 SEVERABILITY OF PARTS OF CODE.
   It is hereby declared to be the intention of the Board of Supervisors that
the sections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses and phrases of this code are
severable, and if any phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph or section of this
code shall be declared unconstitutional by the valid judgment or decree of a
court of competent jurisdiction, the unconstitutionality shall not affect any
of the remaining phrases, clauses, sentences, paragraphs and sections of this
code.
(1966 Code, § 1-6) (Ord. 1073, § 3 (part), 2024)
§ 1.01.007 GENERAL PENALTY; CONTINUING VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Whenever in this code or in any other ordinance of the county or in
any rule or regulation promulgated pursuant thereto, any act is prohibited or
made or declared to be unlawful or an offense, or the doing of any act is
required or the failure to do any act is declared to be unlawful or a
misdemeanor, where no specific penalty is provided for, the violation of any
such provision of this code or any other ordinance, rule or regulation of the
county shall be punishable by a fine not exceeding $1,000 or imprisonment for a
term not exceeding six months, or by both the fine and imprisonment or as
otherwise established by Cal. Penal Code § 19 then in effect.
   (B)   Every day any violation of this code or any other ordinance, rule or
regulation of the county shall continue shall constitute a separate offense.
(1966 Code, § 1-7) (Ord. 570, § 5; Ord. 1073, § 3 (part), 2024)
Statutory reference:
   Establishing a penalty of a fine not exceeding $1,000, or six months’
imprisonment, or both for commission of a misdemeanor, see Cal. Penal Code § 19
   Every person who maintains or commits any public nuisance, the punishment
for which is not otherwise prescribed, or who willfully omits to perform any
legal duty relating to the removal of a public nuisance, is guilty of a
misdemeanor. (Cal. Penal Code § 372)
§ 1.01.008 AUTHORITY TO REQUIRE PRISONERS TO LABOR ON PUBLIC WORKS AND THE
LIKE.
   All persons confined in the county jail under judgment of conviction of
misdemeanors may be required to work upon the public grounds and public
property either of the county or of the cities within the county, or in such
other places as may be deemed advisable.
(1966 Code, § 1-8) (Ord. 4, § 1; Ord. 1073, § 3 (part), 2024)
Statutory reference:
   Authority of county to provide for working of  prisoners, see Cal. Gov’t
Code § 25359
   Working of prisoners confined in county jail, see Cal. Penal Code §§ 4017,
4018
CHAPTER 1.03: CODE ENFORCEMENT
Section
   
1.03.001   Purpose
   
1.03.002   Criminal penalties
   
1.03.003   Civil actions
   
1.03.004   Treble costs
   
1.03.005   Administrative abatement
   
1.03.006   Notice of violation
   
1.03.007   Denial of permits, licenses or other entitlements
   
1.03.008   Appeal
   
1.03.009   Investigation fee
   
1.03.010   Reinspection fee
   
1.03.011   Powers and duties of Enforcing Officers
   
1.03.012   Remedies cumulative
   
1.03.013   Administrative policies and procedures
   
1.03.014   Expedited administrative abatement of code violations
   
1.03.015   Responsibility of property owner
   
1.03.016   Recovery of attorneys' fees
§ 1.03.001 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The purpose of this chapter is to provide a comprehensive and uniform
code enforcement program in order to ensure compliance with all county
ordinances that incorporate the remedies specified by this chapter.
   (B)   The Board of Supervisors finds that fair and effective code
enforcement is needed to protect the health and safety of the residents of San
Benito County and to preserve a healthy economic climate in the county. The
Board further recognizes that there are scarce financial resources available to
counties. The Board determines that these resources must be managed to
economically enforce code compliance. The Board concludes that first resort to
administrative remedies conserves the financial resources of all parties when
compared to the high costs of litigation. Additionally, administrative remedies
often result in faster resolution of violations. Finally, the Board desires to
create a variety of enforcement remedies so as to maximize efforts to ensure
code compliance.
(1966 Code, § 19-1) (Ord. 567, § 1(part); Ord. 1073, § 3 (part), 2024)
§ 1.03.002 CRIMINAL PENALTIES.
   (A)   Misdemeanors. Every violation of a county ordinance determined to be a
misdemeanor is punishable by imprisonment in the county jail not exceeding six
months or by fine not exceeding $1,000, or by both the fine and imprisonment.
   (B)   Infractions. Every violation of a county ordinance determined to be an
infraction is punishable by a fine not exceeding $100 for a first violation; a
fine not exceeding $200 for a second violation of the same ordinance within one
year; and a fine not exceeding $500 for each additional violation of the same
ordinance within one year.
   (C)   Continuing violation. Each separate day or portion thereof that any
person violates or continues to violate a county ordinance shall be deemed to
constitute a separate offense and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished
as provided herein.
   (D)   Citations. Those county employees designated as “Enforcing Officers”
are authorized pursuant to Cal. Penal Code § 836.5 and Cal. Penal Code Chapter
5C (commencing with § 853.5) of Title 3 of Part 2 to issue citations for
violations of any county ordinance. The following employees are designated
“Enforcing Officers”: Code Enforcement Officer, Building Official, Building
Inspector, Health Officer or designate.
(1966 Code, § 19-2) (Ord. 567, § 1(part); Ord. 1073, § 3 (part), 2024)
§ 1.03.003 CIVIL ACTIONS.
   (A)   The county counsel may bring a civil action to enjoin or abate a
public nuisance or a violation of a county ordinance.
   (B)   In any civil action brought to enjoin or abate a public nuisance or
violation of a county ordinance, the county may recover all costs and expenses,
including, but not limited to, costs of investigation and discovery. In
addition, the prevailing party may recover its attorney’s fees. Recovery of
attorneys’ fees to the prevailing party shall be limited to those individual
actions or proceedings in which the county elects, at the initiation of that
individual action or proceeding, to seek recovery of its own attorneys’ fee. In
no action shall an award of attorneys’ fees to a prevailing party exceed the
amount of reasonable attorneys’ fees incurred by the county in the action or
proceeding.
      (1)   Except as provided in division (B)(2) below, any person who creates
or maintains a public nuisance or who violates, or fails to comply with, any
ordinance of San Benito County shall be liable for a civil penalty not to
exceed $2,500 for the creation or maintenance of a public nuisance or for each
violation or failure to comply. It shall be a separate offense for each and
every day during any portion of which any person knowingly and intentionally
commits, continues or permits a public nuisance or a violation of any provision
of any ordinance of San Benito County.
      (2)   Any person who constructs a dwelling unit or converts a structure
for human habitation without any permit required by any provision of a San
Benito County ordinance shall be liable for a civil penalty in the amount of
any rent received from any person occupying the illegal structure, or, in the
alternative, in the amount of the reasonable rental value of the structure from
the date of its construction or conversion.
(1966 Code, § 19-3) (Ord. 567, § 1(part); Ord. 625, § 1; Ord. 882, § 1; Ord.
1073, § 3 (part), 2024)
§ 1.03.004 TREBLE COSTS.
   Pursuant to Cal. Gov’t Code § 25845.5, upon entry of a second or subsequent
civil or criminal judgment within a two-year period finding that an owner of
property is responsible for a condition that may be abated as a public
nuisance, except for conditions abated pursuant to Cal. Health and Safety Code
§ 17980, the county may recover treble the costs of abatement.
(1966 Code, § 19-4) (Ord. 567, § 1(part); Ord. 1073, § 3 (part), 2024)
§ 1.03.005 ADMINISTRATIVE ABATEMENT.
   (A)   Notice to abate. Whenever the Enforcing Officer determines that any
property within the county is being maintained contrary to the provisions of a
county ordinance and constitutes a public nuisance, he or she may mail a
written notice to the owner of the property and to any person known to the
Enforcing Officer or the Board of Supervisors to be in possession of the
property. The notice shall state the conditions which constitute the public
nuisance and shall direct that the person abate the conditions or appear before
the Board of Supervisors at a stated time and place and show cause why the
conditions should not be abated by the county at the person’s expense.
   (B)   Manner of giving notice. Service of the notice to abate shall be made
personally or by depositing a true copy thereof in the U.S. Mail, postage
prepaid, addressed to the owner and/or occupier of the subject property at
their last known address. Service is deemed complete at the time of such
deposit. The failure of any owner or occupier to receive such notice shall not
affect in any manner the validity of the proceedings hereunder.
   (C)   Hearing. At the time fixed in the notice, the Board of Supervisors
shall hear and consider all relevant evidence from the owner and/or occupier of
the subject property, county personnel, and other interested persons relative
to the alleged public nuisance and to the abatement thereof. If the Board of
Supervisors finds that such public nuisance does exist and that there is
sufficient cause to abate the same, it may, by resolution, direct that the
nuisance be abated by the county at the expense of the owner and/or occupier,
the expense to be specially assessed against the parcel, and a lien imposed, in
the event of nonpayment by the owner or occupier.
   (D)   Abatement by county. In all cases where the Enforcing Officer or Board
of Supervisors has determined to proceed with abatement, then on the day
following the date fixed for the hearing, the county shall acquire jurisdiction
to abate such conditions at the expense of the owner and/or occupier.
   (E)   Costs of abatement. The Enforcing Officer shall keep an itemized
account of all expenses incurred by the county in abating the nuisance. The
Enforcing Officer shall mail a statement of the expenses to the owner and/or
occupier of the property with a demand for payment within five days. If payment
is not received by the conclusion of the fifth day, the county shall
conspicuously post on the affected property and shall also mail to the owner
and/or occupier of the property a statement showing the expenses of abatement,
together with a notice of the time and place when the statement will be
submitted to the Board of Supervisors for approval and confirmation and at
which time the Board of Supervisors shall consider objections or protestations
to the costs of abatement.
   (F)   Hearing on statement of expenses. At the time fixed for the hearing on
the statement of expenses, the Board of Supervisors shall consider the
statement and protests or objections raised by the owner or occupier. The Board
of Supervisors may revise, correct or modify the statement as it considers just
and thereafter shall confirm the statement by motion or resolution.
   (G)   Special assessment. In the event the owner or occupier of the subject
property does not pay the expenses of abatement within ten days after the Board
of Supervisors confirms the costs of abatement, the costs shall become a
special assessment against the property. The assessment may be collected at the
same time and in the same manner as ordinary county taxes are collected, and
shall be subject to the same penalties and the same procedure and sale in case
of delinquency as are provided for ordinary county taxes. All laws applicable
to the levy, collection and enforcement of county taxes are applicable to the
special assessment.
   (H)   Notice of abatement lien. At the time the expenses of abatement become
a special assessment against the property, the county shall record a notice of
abatement lien with the County Recorder as is authorized by the Government Code
and this section. A notice of abatement lien shall be filed which states the
identity of the record owner or possessor of the property, the date upon which
the abatement of the nuisance was ordered, a description of the real property
subject to the lien, the amount of the abatement costs incurred to date and, if
applicable, the date upon which the abatement was complete. If the abatement
has not yet been completed, the notice shall so state and shall also indicate
that the lien is a partial lien and that additional abatement costs will be
incurred in the future. It is the intent of the Board of Supervisors that
abatement costs incurred after the filing of the notice of abatement lien
relate back to the date upon which the lien was recorded for purposes of
priority; provided that, after all abatement costs have been incurred and the
abatement is complete, the Enforcing Officer, or his or her designee, shall
cause a final notice of abatement lien to be recorded. The supplemental notice
shall contain all the information required for the original notice and shall
also refer to the recordation date and recorder’s document number of the
original notice.
   (I)   Summary abatement of immediate dangers. Whenever any condition on or
use of property constitutes an immediate threat to public health or safety, the
County Administrative Officer or the Board of Supervisors shall have the
authority to summarily abate the nuisance, without notice to the owner or
persons known to be in possession of the parcel. The expenses of such abatement
shall be assessed against the property as provided herein.
(1966 Code, § 19-5) (Ord. 567, § 1(part); Ord. 882, §§ 2-5; Ord. 1073, § 3
(part), 2024)
§ 1.03.006 NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   (A)   Notice of intention to record notice of violation. Except as otherwise
provided by law, an enforcing officer who has knowledge that a violation of a
county ordinance exists with respect to any real property may cause to be
mailed to the then current owner of record, a notice of intention to record a
notice of violation. The notice shall identify the property owner and shall
contain a description of the property and of the violation. The notice shall
describe the action necessary to abate the violation and the time limit within
which such abatement shall be completed. The notice shall also specify a time,
date, and place for an administrative hearing with a hearing officer. Hearing
officer means the person with experience in considering written and oral
evidence, making findings, and issuing determinations who is appointed by San
Benito County to conduct hearings under this section. Additional procedural
rules for the conduct of the administrative hearing and the appointment of
hearing officers may be adopted by resolution of the Board of Supervisors. If
for any reason a hearing officer is unavailable to conduct hearings, the Board
of Supervisors shall conduct the hearings. Should the Board of Supervisors
conduct hearings, the decision of the Board of Supervisors shall be final and
there shall be no appeal under the procedures set forth in §
1.03.008 below.
   (B)   Notice of violation; clearance letter. If the owner fails to inform
the hearing officer of his or her objection to recording the notice of
violation and the violation has not been abated within the time limit set for
compliance, the Enforcing Officer shall record the notice of violation with the
County Recorder. If the owner abates the violation within the time limit set
for compliance or if, after the owner has presented evidence, it is determined
that there has been no violation, the Enforcing Officer shall mail a clearance
letter to the then current owner of record. If, however, after the owner has
presented evidence, it is determined that a violation does exist, the Enforcing
Officer shall record the notice of violation with the County Recorder.
   (C)   Appeal. Any owner of real property aggrieved by a decision of the
hearing officer under this section may appeal the decision to the Board of
Supervisors in accordance with the procedures set forth in §
1.03.008 below. The filing of an appeal shall not stay the recording of the
notice of violation.
   (D)   Notice of removal of notice of violation. If it is determined, upon
appeal, that there has been no violation or if all work necessary to abate the
violation has been completed to the satisfaction of the Enforcing Officer, the
Enforcing Officer shall record a notice of removal of notice of violation with
the County Recorder.
(1966 Code, § 19-6) (Ord. 567, § 1(part); Ord. 816, §§ 1, 2, 3; Ord. 1073, § 3
(part), 2024)
§ 1.03.007 DENIAL OF PERMITS, LICENSES OR OTHER ENTITLEMENTS.
   (A)   Denial of permits, licenses or other entitlements; written notice.
Except as otherwise provided by law, no board, commission, officer or employee
of the county shall issue or grant approval of any permits, licenses or other
entitlements regarding any real property with respect to which there exists a
violation of a county ordinance. The authority to deny the permit, license or
other entitlement shall apply whether the applicant therefor was the owner of
record at the time of violation or whether the applicant therefor is either the
current owner of record or a vendee of the current owner of record pursuant to
a contract of sale of the real property with or without actual or constructive
knowledge of the violation at the time of the acquisition of his or her
interest in the real property. Written notice of the refusal to issue or grant
approval of any permit, license or other entitlement shall be mailed to the
applicant and shall describe the violation and the action necessary to abate
the violation.
   (B)   Appeal. Any applicant aggrieved by a decision of a county board,
commission, officer or employee to refuse to issue or grant approval of any
permits, licenses or other entitlements pursuant to this section may appeal the
decision to the Board of Supervisors in accordance with the procedures set
forth in §
1.03.008 below.
(1966 Code, § 19-7) (Ord. 567, § 1(part); Ord. 1073, § 3 (part), 2024)
§ 1.03.008 APPEAL.
   (A)   Any person aggrieved by a decision made under the provisions of §§
1.03.006 and
1.03.007 above, may, within ten days of the date of the decision, file an
appeal in writing with the Clerk of the Board, accompanied by an appeal
application fee which shall be set from time to time by the Board. The appeal
shall be on a form provided by the Clerk of the Board and shall set forth with
particularity the specific grounds upon which the appeal is made. Any grounds
not set forth in the written appeal shall be deemed waived and the appellant
shall thereafter be precluded from raising them.
   (B)   The Clerk of the Board shall set the appeal for hearing before the
Board of Supervisors within 30 days after the date of filing of the appeal.
Upon hearing the appeal, the Board of Supervisors shall consider the record and
may sustain, modify, reject or overrule, in whole or in part, the decision
appealed from. The decision of the Board of Supervisors shall be expressed in
the form of a written resolution concurred in by a majority of all of the
members of the Board.
(1966 Code, § 19-8) (Ord. 567, § 1(part); Ord. 1073, § 3 (part), 2024)
§ 1.03.009 INVESTIGATION FEE.
   Except as otherwise provided by law, whenever any work or use for which a
permit is required by a county ordinance has been commenced without first
obtaining the permit, a special investigation shall be made before the permit
may be issued. An investigation fee, in addition to the permit fee, shall be
collected whether or not a permit is then or subsequently issued. The
investigation fee shall be equal to the amount of the permit fee.
(1966 Code, § 19-9) (Ord. 567, § 1(part); Ord. 1073, § 3 (part), 2024)
§ 1.03.010 REINSPECTION FEE.
   (A)   Purpose of fee. The purpose of this section is to implement a
comprehensive and uniform cost recovery program by establishing guidelines for
the administration and collection of the building inspection reinspection fees
when the Code Enforcement Officer is required to reinspect property numerous
times. The building inspection reinspection fee will be charged when violators
fail to correct violations after the initial and compliance inspections. This
fee is designed to recover some of the costs involved in the code enforcement
program. In many investigations, the violator does not make the required
corrections by a specified date and county staff must return numerous times
before the violation is abated. This is especially true in cases involving
multiple violations when the Code Enforcement Officer often returns seven or
eight times before complete compliance is achieved.
   (B)   Notification process.
      (1)   The formal resolution process is started by an inspection along
with a formal letter of violation specifying the violation and mandatory
abatement as well as scheduling a date when the abatement should be completed.
The property owner is advised that all corrections must be made within the time
specified in the written letter of violation. If inspections are needed beyond
the initial formal process, including the first compliance inspection, a
reinspection fee of $250 shall be charged for each reinspection that does not
verify compliance.
      (2)   The initial formal written letter of violation shall contain the
following notation:
      “All corrections or repairs must be completed prior to the first
scheduled compliance inspection after service of this written letter of
violation. If corrections or repairs are not completed and if additional
reinspections are required to verify compliance, a $250 reinspection fee will
be charged for each subsequent reinspection that does not verify compliance
with county ordinances.”
      (3)   Code enforcement staff will reinspect the location for compliance
when requested by the property owner or his, her or its agent. The reinspection
fee shall not be charged for inspections conducted more frequently than every
two weeks unless the property owner requests more frequent inspection. Fees
will not be charged for court ordered inspections.
   (C)   Legal surcharge. A legal surcharge fee of $125, in addition to other
fees, is applicable and shall be paid for each violation.
   (D)   Billing procedures.
      (1)   Upon completion of any reinspection for which fees are to be
assessed, the Code Enforcement Officer shall document in the approved data
management software the completion of the inspection, the outcome, and the
hours spent.
      (2)   The charges will be reviewed for accuracy and completeness by the
Planning Director or his or her designee.
      (3)   Upon approval by the Planning Director, or his or her designee, an
invoice will be sent to the violator.
(1966 Code, § 19-10) (Ord. 625, § 2; Ord. 1073, § 3 (part), 2024)
§ 1.03.011 POWERS AND DUTIES OF ENFORCING OFFICERS.
   (A)   Limitation of duty; liability. Nothing in this chapter or in any other
county ordinance is intended, or shall be deemed or construed, to impose
liability upon the county, or any of its officers, agents or employees, for any
injury to persons or damage to property alleged to result from any act or
omission by the county or any of its officers, agents or employees, beyond the
liability imposed by the laws of the state and of the United States. Nothing in
this chapter or in any county ordinance is intended, or shall be deemed or
construed, to impose a mandatory duty upon the county, or any of its officers,
agents or employees, for the purpose of determining entitlement to equitable
relief or liability for any injury to persons or damage to property alleged to
result from the failure of the county or any of its officers, agents or
employees to discharge a mandatory duty imposed by any county ordinance.
   (B)   Right of entry. Whenever necessary to make any inspection to enforce
any county ordinance, or whenever an Enforcing Officer has reasonable cause to
believe that there exists a violation of a county ordinance with respect to any
structure or premises, the Enforcing Officer may enter the structure or
premises, at all reasonable times, to conduct the inspection or to perform any
other duty imposed by county ordinance. If the structure or premises is
occupied, the Enforcing Officer shall first request entry. If the structure or
premises is unoccupied, the Enforcing Officer shall make a reasonable effort to
locate the owner or other person having charge or control of the structure or
premises and request entry. If entry is refused, the Enforcing Officer shall
have recourse to every remedy provided by law to secure entry including, but
not limited to, inspection warrants.
(1966 Code, § 19-11) (Ord. 567, § 1(part); Ord. 625, § 3; Ord. 1073, § 3
(part), 2024)
§ 1.03.012 REMEDIES CUMULATIVE.
   Except as otherwise provided by law, the remedies provided in this chapter
are cumulative and not exclusive. Nothing in this chapter is intended, or shall
be deemed or construed, to limit or impair the ability of the county, or any of
its officers, agents or employees, to take any administrative or judicial
action, otherwise authorized by law, to abate any public nuisance.
(1966 Code, § 19-12) (Ord. 567, § 1(part); Ord. 625, § 4; Ord. 1073, § 3
(part), 2024)
§ 1.03.013 ADMINISTRATIVE POLICIES AND PROCEDURES.
   The Board of Supervisors from time to time may, by resolution, promulgate
administrative policies and procedures consistent with this chapter.
(1966 Code, § 19-13) (Ord. 567, § 1(part); Ord. 625, § 5; Ord. 1073, § 3
(part), 2024)
§ 1.03.014 EXPEDITED ADMINISTRATIVE ABATEMENT OF CODE VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Stop activities order. Whenever the Planning Director determines by a
preponderance of the evidence that a person is violating a code governed by
this chapter and that the code violation creates a substantial and imminent
risk of serious harm to persons or property, the Planning Director may order
the immediate cessation of any activities constituting the code violation.
   (B)   Consent to stop activities order. All permits, discretionary or
ministerial, issued under the authority of any chapter of the San Benito County
Code adopting this chapter are conditioned that the permittee consent to the
stop activities order specified in this section. The acceptance of any such
permit and commencement of activities thereunder shall indicate a permittee’s
consent to the issuance of a stop activities order upon a determination by the
Planning Director as specified in division (A). The consent to the issuance of
a stop activities order shall include, without limitation, consent to cease
activities from the time of issuance of a stop activities order until the
expedited administrative review, not later than 48 hours after the issuance of
the stop activities order and consent to cease activities following the
expedited administrative review until any appeal may be heard by the Planning
Commission or the Board of Supervisors, as the case may be.
   (C)   Procedure.
      (1)   Voluntary cessation of activities. Before issuing a stop activities
order, the Planning Director shall inform the person conducting the activities
in question that the activities constitute a violation of a San Benito County
ordinance and request the person voluntarily stop. If the person does stop
voluntarily, the Planning Director shall set a date and time for an expedited
administrative review to occur no later than 40 hours after the request to
cease activities. At the expedited administrative review, the person may
dispute the Planning Director’s determination of a code violation. Notice of
the cessation of the activities and of the expedited administrative review
shall be sent in accordance with division (D) herein. The notice shall refer to
the voluntary cessation of activities.
      (2)   Issuance of a stop activities order. If the person does not
voluntarily stop activities constituting a violation of a San Benito County
ordinance, the Planning Director shall give a stop activities order to the
person conducting the activities. The person shall comply with the order to
cease activities. Additionally, the Planning Director shall post the order at a
conspicuous place on the premises and mail a copy of the order to a permittee,
if any exists, and to an owner of the subject property, if different than the
actor or permittee. The order shall be given as specified in division (D)
herein.
   (D)   Notice of stop activities order. The stop activities order shall
specify the ordinance violated, the activities which constitute the violation,
the date and time of an expedited administrative review to occur within 48
hours after the issuance of the order and the person issuing the order. The
notice shall be delivered personally to any person conducting the activities,
if the person is available, and mailed to any permittee, if any exists, or any
owner of the subject property if the owner is different than the actor or
permittee. The stop work order shall also specify the penalties for violating
the stop activities order.
   (E)   Expedited administrative review.
      (1)   No later than 48 hours after the Planning Director issues a stop
activities order, the Planning Director shall conduct an expedited
administrative review of the stop activities order. If the actor, permittee or
the owner of the subject property objects to the issuance of the stop
activities order, the actor, permittee and/or owner shall appear at the
expedited administrative review and may present any relevant evidence in
opposition to the issuance of the order. The persons contesting the issuance of
the order shall have the burden of proof to demonstrate that the stop
activities order should be rescinded.
      (2)   The contesting parties shall present evidence first. Following the
presentation of evidence by the contesting parties, the Planning Department
shall present its evidence in support of the stop activities order. The
contesting parties shall be allowed a brief rebuttal to present evidence in
response to the Planning Department’s evidence.
      (3)   The formal rules of evidence do not apply to the expedited
administrative review. Any relevant evidence upon which a reasonable person may
rely in the conduct of serious affairs shall be admissible. Any party shall
have the right to question a witness called by any other party.
      (4)   Following the conclusion of the expedited administrative review,
the Planning Director shall consider the evidence presented and shall render a
decision within 48 hours after the close of the review. The Planning Director
may uphold the stop activities order, vacate the order, issue a new order or
condition the activities of the permittee in order to ensure compliance with
the ordinances of San Benito County so as to eliminate the substantial and
eminent risk of harm to persons or properties resulting from the activities of
the permittee, actor or property owner.
      (5)   If any person to whom notice of the order was given fails to appear
at the hearing, it shall be conclusively presumed that the absent party waives
that party’s right to object to and contest the stop activities order.
   (F)   Appeal.
      (1)   The decision of the Planning Director following the expedited
administrative review may be appealed by the permittee or by any interested
party. The appeal shall be made to the Planning Commission and the application
for the appeal shall be filed no later than ten days after the Planning
Director’s decision following the expedited administrative review. The appeal
shall be heard at the first regular meeting of the Planning Commission in which
the appeal may be scheduled following the filing of the appeal. Any decision of
the Planning Commission may be appealed to the Board of Supervisors within ten
days of the Planning Commission decision by filing an appeal with the Clerk of
the Board.
      (2)   Appeals to the Planning Commission and Board shall be de novo
hearings. The appellant shall have the burden of presenting evidence justifying
the relief sought by appellant. The body hearing the appeal may affirm, reverse
or modify the decision made previously in the matter. Any decision by Board of
Supervisors shall be the final decision. Pending a decision on appeal, the
appealed decision shall remain in effect.
   (G)   Violation of order. Conducting, engaging in or allowing any activities
in violation of any stop activities order shall be a violation of this chapter.
Any person who conducts, engages in or allows any activities in violation of a
stop activities order shall be liable for a civil penalty not to exceed $2,500
for each day or portion thereof that activities occur. The civil penalty
specified in this division shall be a separate remedy from the underlying code
violation.
(1966 Code, § 19-14) (Ord. 625, § 6; Ord. 1073, § 3 (part), 2024)
§ 1.03.015 RESPONSIBILITY OF PROPERTY OWNER.
   In addition to other provisions of this Code, in any action to abate a
nuisance, whether by administrative proceedings, judicial proceedings, or
summary abatement, the owner of the parcel upon which the nuisance is found to
exist shall be liable for all costs of abatement incurred by the county,
including, but not limited to, administrative costs, and any and all costs
incurred in the physical abatement of the nuisance. Recovery of costs as
allowed by Cal. Govt. Code § 25845 shall be in addition to and shall not limit
any prevailing party’s right to recover costs pursuant to §§ 1032 and 1033.5 of
the Code of Civil Procedure or any other provision of law.
(Ord. 882, § 6; Ord. 1073, § 3 (part), 2024)
§ 1.03.016 RECOVERY OF ATTORNEYS' FEES.
   In any action, administrative proceeding, or special proceeding to abate a
nuisance, the prevailing party may recover its attorneys’ fees. Recovery of
attorneys’ fees to the prevailing party shall be limited to those individual
actions or proceedings in which the county elects, at the initiation of that
individual action or proceeding, to seek recovery of its own attorneys’ fees.
In no action, administrative proceeding, or special proceeding shall an award
of attorneys’ fees to a prevailing party exceed the amount of reasonable
attorneys’ fees incurred by the county in the action or proceeding.
(Ord. 882, § 7; Ord. 1073, § 3 (part), 2024)
CHAPTER 1.04: ADMINISTRATIVE CITATIONS
Section
   
1.04.001   Applicability
   
1.04.002   Definitions
   
1.04.003   Administrative citation
   
1.04.004   Service of administrative citation
   
1.04.005   Amount of fines
   
1.04.006   Payment of fine
   
1.04.007   Request for hearing
   
1.04.008   Advance deposit or hardship waiver
   
1.04.009   Hearing officer
   
1.04.010   Hearing procedure
   
1.04.011   Hearing officer’s decision
   
1.04.012   Late payment charges
   
1.04.013   Recovery of administrative citation fines, late payment charges and
collection costs
   
1.04.014   Right to judicial review
   
1.04.015   Service
§ 1.04.001 APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   This chapter provides for administrative citations and fines which are
in addition to all other civil or criminal legal remedies, which the county may
pursue to address any violation of the San Benito County Code.
   (B)   The use of this chapter shall be at the county’s sole discretion.
   (C)   County staff may prepare a procedures manual which provides additional
guidance for implementing the administrative citation program consistent with
the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 917, § 1(part), 2013; Ord. 1,010, § 2(part), 2020; Ord. 1073, § 3 (part),
2024)
§ 1.04.002 DEFINITIONS.
   For purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply:
   ADMINISTRATIVE CITATION. A citation issued pursuant to this chapter, stating
that one or more violations of this code has occurred and stating the amount of
the administrative penalty to be paid by the responsible party.
   ADMINISTRATIVE COSTS. All costs incurred by or on behalf of the county from
the first discovery of the violation of this code through the appeal process
and until compliance is achieved, including but not limited to, staff time in
investigating the violation, inspecting the property where the violation
occurred, preparing investigation reports, sending notices, preparing for and
attending any appeal hearing, telephone contacts, and correspondence.
ADMINISTRATIVE COSTS shall not include attorney’s fees.
   DIRECTOR. The director of any county department or his or her designated
representative responsible and authorized to enforce county codes and
ordinances.
   CLERK OF THE BOARD. The Clerk of the Board or designee.
   CODE. The San Benito County Code, the Codified Ordinances of San Benito
County, including all pertinent provisions of state codes as from time to time
adopted and incorporated therein, enacted by the Board of Supervisors of the
County of San Benito.
   COUNTY. The County of San Benito, a political subdivision of the State of
California.
   COUNTY ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER. The County Administrative Officer or
designee.
   ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. The director of a county department or any county
employee or agent of the county with the authority granted by a resolution of
the Board of Supervisors to enforce any provision of this code or county
ordinance through the administrative citation process.
   HEARING OFFICER. Any person designated to preside over an administrative
hearing provided for in this chapter. The hearing officer shall not be the
citing enforcement officer.
   PERSON. Without limitation, any natural person, firm, association, club,
organization, corporation, partnership, business, business trust, company or
other entity, which is recognized by law as the subject of rights or duties.
PERSON shall include any “responsible party” as defined below.
   RESPONSIBLE PARTY. For the purpose of this chapter, RESPONSIBLE PARTY shall
mean:
      (1)   Each person, other than a minor, who commits or causes a violation
of this code to occur, exist, or continue;
      (2)   Each person who is the parent or legal guardian of the minor person
who commits or causes a violation of this code to occur, exist, or continue;
      (3)   Each person who has a legal or equitable ownership interest in any
parcel of real property located within the unincorporated area of the County of
San Benito and who commits, causes, or otherwise allows the violation of any
provision of this code to occur, exist, or continue on such parcel;
      (4)   Each person who, although not an owner, nevertheless has a legal
right or legal obligation to exercise possession and control over any parcel of
real property located within the unincorporated area of the County of San
Benito and who commits, causes, or otherwise allows the violation of any
provision of this code to occur, exist, or continue on such parcel; and
      (5)   In addition to the business entity itself, each person who is an
owner of that business entity in those cases in which the commission,
occurrence, existence, or continuation of the violation of any provision of
this code is most reasonably attributable to that business entity and not to an
employee of that business entity.
(Ord. 917, § 1(part), 2013; Ord. 1073, § 3 (part), 2024)
§ 1.04.003 ADMINISTRATIVE CITATION.
   (A)   Whenever an enforcement officer determines that a violation of this
code has occurred, the enforcement officer shall have the authority to issue
administrative citations, in accordance with Cal. Gov’t Code § 53069.4 and this
section, to any person(s) responsible for any violation(s) of this code,
including but not limited to those violations not occurring in the presence of
the enforcing officer issuing the citation where the issuing officer determines
through investigation that the responsible party committed, caused, allowed, or
is otherwise responsible for the violation.
   (B)   Each administrative citation shall contain the following information:
      (1)   The date, or approximate date, of the violation;
      (2)   The address or a definite description of the location where the
violation occurred;
      (3)   The code or ordinance sections of the code violated and a
description of the violation;
      (4)   A description of how the violation can be corrected;
      (5)   The amount of the fine for the code violation;
      (6)   A description of the fine payment process, including a description
of the time within which and the place to which the fine shall be paid;
      (7)   An order prohibiting the continuation or repeated occurrence of the
code violation described in the administrative citation;
      (8)   A description of the administrative citation review process,
including the time within which the administrative citation may be contested by
submitting a request for hearing form; and
      (9)   The name and signature of the citing enforcement officer.
   (C)   Except as provided in §
1.04.005(E), prior to the issuance of an administrative citation for a
violation that does not create an immediate danger to health or safety, the
enforcement officer shall provide a reasonable period of time not less than ten
business days to correct or otherwise remedy the violation.
(Ord. 917, § 1(part), 2013; Ord. 1,010, § 1(part), 2020; Ord. 1073, § 3 (part),
2024)
§ 1.04.004 SERVICE OF ADMINISTRATIVE CITATION.
   (A)   Personal service. The enforcement officer, an authorized designee, may
obtain the signature of the person responsible for the violation on the
administrative citation. If the responsible person refuses or fails to sign the
administrative citation, the failure or refusal to sign shall not affect the
validity of the citation and subsequent proceedings. If the responsible party
is a business, and the business owner is on the premises, the enforcement
officer shall attempt to deliver the administrative citation to the business
owner. If the enforcement officer is unable to serve the business owner of the
premises, and the enforcement officer can only locate the manager or on-site
supervisor, the administrative citation may be issued in the name of the
business and a copy given to the manager or on-site supervisor. A copy of the
administrative citation shall also be mailed to the business owner by certified
mail, return receipt requested, and by first class mail.
   (B)   By mail as provided in this code. A copy of the administrative
citation may be mailed to any person in lieu of personal service. The copy
shall be mailed by certified mail, return receipt requested, and by first class
mail. If a copy of the administrative citation that is sent by certified mail
is returned by the United States Postal Service unsigned or marked “unclaimed”
and/or “refused,” then service by first class mail shall be deemed effective
provided it is not also returned by the United States Postal Service. The
failure of the owner, responsible party or person of interest to receive a
properly addressed citation shall not affect the validity of any proceeding
under this chapter.
   (C)   Posting. As an alternative, if service cannot be completed as
specified in this §
1.04.004(A) or (B) above, or by an additional method of notice at the
discretion of the county, the administrative citation may be posted in a
conspicuous place on or near the property in which the owner or responsible
party has a legal interest, and such posting shall be deemed effective service.
The failure of the owner, responsible party or person of interest to receive
any notice served in accordance with this section shall not affect the validity
of any proceeding under this chapter.
(Ord. 917, § 1(part), 2013; Ord. 1073, § 3 (part), 2024)
§ 1.04.005 AMOUNT OF FINES.
   (A)   The fine for a violation imposed pursuant to this chapter shall be
$500 for the first occurrence of a violation, $1,000 for the second occurrence
of the violation within one year, and $2,500 for the third citation and each
subsequent occurrence of the same violation within one year.
   (B)   The fine amounts shall be cumulative where multiple notices are
issued.
   (C)   A late payment charge shall be paid to the county in the amount
specified in §
1.04.012 if a fine has not been paid in full to the county on the date on which
it is due.
   (D)   Notwithstanding any other part of this code, any violation of
building, plumbing, electrical, or other similar structural, health and safety,
or zoning requirements, if the violation exists as a result of or to
facilitate, the illegal cultivation, manufacture, or distribution of cannabis,
without the benefit of a commercial cannabis business permit issued through San
Benito County, shall constitute a misdemeanor and be subject to an immediate
daily fine of $10,000 commencing on the date the notice of violation is issued.
   (E)   Notwithstanding any other part of this code, any violation of
building, plumbing, electrical, or other similar structural, health and safety,
or zoning requirements, if the violation exists as a result of or to
facilitate, the illegal cultivation, manufacture, or distribution of cannabis,
while in possession of a valid commercial cannabis business permit issued by
the County of San Benito, shall constitute a violation of
Chapters 7.02 and
19.43 of this code, and will be subject to the following fines:
      (1)   The fine for a violation imposed pursuant to this chapter shall be
$1,000 for the first occurrence of a violation;
      (2)   $2,000 for the second occurrence of the violation; and
      (3)   $5,000 for the third occurrence and revocation of cannabis business
permit as issued by San Benito County.
(Ord. 917, § 1(part), 2013; Ord. 1,010, § 2(part), 2020; Ord. 1073, § 3 (part),
2024)
§ 1.04.006 PAYMENT OF FINE.
   (A)   The fine and any penalty shall be paid to the county within 30 days
from the date of the administrative citation, in accordance with the payment
instructions printed on the citation form.
   (B)   Any administrative citation fine paid pursuant to §
1.04.006(A) shall be refunded in accordance with §
1.04.011 if it is determined, after a hearing that the person charged in the
administrative citation was not responsible for the violation or that there was
no violation as charged in the administrative citation.
   (C)   Payment of a fine and any penalty shall not excuse or discharge any
continuation or repeated occurrence of the code violation that is the subject
of the administrative citation, nor shall it release any person from the
responsibility of correcting, removing or abating the violation; nor prevent
the enforced correction, removal, or abatement of a violation by the county,
its employees, agents, or representatives.
(Ord. 917, § 1(part), 2013; Ord. 1073, § 3 (part), 2024)
§ 1.04.007 REQUEST FOR HEARING.
   (A)   Any person receiving an administrative citation may contest the
citation by completing a request for hearing form and returning it to the Clerk
of the Board within 30 days from the date of the administrative citation,
together with an advance deposit of the total fine or an advance deposit
hardship waiver application form pursuant to §
1.04.008. The failure of any person to properly file a request for hearing
within the time specified in this section shall constitute a waiver of the
right to an administrative hearing and adjudication of the administrative
citation or fine or any portion of the fine.
   (B)   A request for hearing form may be obtained from the County Clerk of
the Board. Any person requesting a hearing may provide the county with a
mailing address to which any future notice required by this chapter may be
sent.
   (C)   The person requesting the hearing shall be notified of the time and
place set for the hearing, via mail postmarked at least ten days prior to the
date of the hearing, or by personal service or posting at least ten days prior
to the date of the hearing.
   (D)   If the enforcement officer submits an additional written report
concerning the administrative citation to the hearing officer for consideration
at the hearing, then a copy of this report also shall be served on the person
requesting the hearing by personal service, posting, or by overnight mail
mailed at least five days prior to the date of the hearing.
(Ord. 917, § 1(part), 2013; Ord. 1073, § 3 (part), 2024)
§ 1.04.008 ADVANCE DEPOSIT OR HARDSHIP WAIVER.
   (A)   Any person who intends to request a hearing to contest that there was
a violation of the code or that he or she is the responsible party and who is
financially unable to make the advance deposit of the fine or penalty as
required in §
1.04.007 may file a request for an advance deposit hardship waiver which
includes a sworn affidavit as described in division (C) of this section.
   (B)   The request shall be filed with the Clerk of the Board on an advance
deposit hardship waiver application form available from the Clerk of the
Board’s office within 30 days of the administration citation. This request will
be forwarded to the County Administrative Officer or designee for
determination.
   (C)   The County Administrative Officer may waive the requirement of an
advance deposit and issue the advance deposit hardship waiver only if the cited
party submits to the Clerk of the Board a sworn affidavit, together with any
supporting documents or materials, demonstrating to the satisfaction of the
County Administrative Officer, the person’s actual financial inability to
deposit with the county the full amount of the fine in advance of the hearing.
   (D)   In determining the cited party’s financial ability or inability to
deposit the full amount of the penalty in advance, the County Administrative
Officer shall consider the amount of the penalty imposed, the income of the
cited party, the expenses of the cited party, and any other factors that are
reasonably related to the cited party’s ability to deposit the full amount.
   (E)   The requirement of depositing the full amount of the penalty as
described in section shall be stayed unless or until the County Administrative
Officer, or his or her designee makes a full determination of whether to issue
the advance deposit hardship waiver.
   (F)   If the County Administrative Officer, or his or her designee,
determines not to issue an advance deposit hardship waiver, the person shall
remit the deposit to the county within ten days of service of that decision.
   (G)   The County Administrative Officer shall issue a written decision
listing the reasons for the determination to issue or not issue the advance
deposit hardship waiver. The County Administrative Officer’s written decision
shall be final.
   (H)   The written decision of the County Administrative Officer shall be
served upon the person who applied for the advance deposit hardship waiver.
(Ord. 917, § 1(part), 2013; Ord. 1073, § 3 (part), 2024)
§ 1.04.009 HEARING OFFICER.
   The County Administrative Officer, or his or her designee, shall appoint an
independent hearing officer to preside over an administrative citation hearing
which has been properly requested under the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 917, § 1(part), 2013; Ord. 1073, § 3 (part), 2024)
§ 1.04.010 HEARING PROCEDURE.
   (A)   No hearing to contest an administrative citation before a hearing
officer shall be held unless the fine or penalty has been deposited in advance
in accordance with §
1.04.007(A) or an advance deposit hardship waiver has been approved by the
County Administrative Officer, or his or her designee.
   (B)   A hearing before the hearing officer shall be set for a date that is
not less than 15 days and not more than 60 days from the date that the request
for hearing is filed in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   At the hearing, the party contesting the administrative citation shall
be given the opportunity to testify and to present evidence concerning the
administrative citation.
   (D)   The failure of any recipient of an administrative citation to appear
at the administrative citation hearing shall constitute a forfeiture of the
fine and a failure to exhaust his or her administrative remedies.
   (E)   The administrative citation and any additional report submitted by the
enforcement officer shall constitute prima facie evidence of the respective
facts contained in those documents.
   (F)   The hearing officer may continue the hearing and request additional
information from the enforcement officer or the recipient of the citation prior
to issuing a written decision.
(Ord. 917, § 1(part), 2013; Ord. 1073, § 3 (part), 2024)
§ 1.04.011 HEARING OFFICER’S DECISION.
   (A)   After considering all of the oral and written evidence submitted at
the hearing, the hearing officer shall issue a written decision to uphold or
cancel the administrative citation and shall list the reasons for that
decision. The decision of the hearing officer shall be final.
   (B)   If the hearing officer determines that the administrative citation
should be upheld, the fine amount on deposit with the county shall be retained
by the county.
   (C)   If the hearing officer determines that the administrative citation
should be upheld and the fine has not been deposited pursuant to an advance
deposit hardship waiver, the hearing officer shall state in the decision a due
date for payment of the fine.
   (D)   If the hearing officer determines that the administrative citation
should be canceled and the fine was deposited with the county, the county shall
promptly refund the amount of the deposited fine.
   (E)   If the hearing officer determines that a violation has occurred and
that compliance was not achieved, the hearing officer may assess additional
administrative costs against the violator. Administrative costs may include any
and all costs incurred by the county (both direct and indirect costs) in
investigating and commencing administrative proceedings for the violation as
well as any and all costs incurred by the county in connection with the hearing
before the hearing officer, including but not limited to costs the enforcement
officer incurred in preparation for the hearing and for participating in the
hearing itself, and costs of the county to conduct the hearing.
   (F)   Failure to pay administrative fines, penalties or administrative costs
in the amounts specified in the administrative hearing officer’s decision on or
before the date specified in that decision may result in the imposition of
collection and late charges as otherwise provided for herein.
   (G)   The recipient of the administrative citation shall be served with a
copy of the hearing officer’s written decision.
(Ord. 917, § 1(part), 2013; Ord. 1073, § 3 (part), 2024)
§ 1.04.012 LATE PAYMENT CHARGES.
   Any person who fails to pay to the county any fine or penalty imposed
pursuant to the provisions of this chapter on or before the date that the fine
is due also shall be liable for the payment of any applicable late payment
charge as may be adopted by the Board of Supervisors by resolution.
(Ord. 917, § 1(part), 2013; Ord. 1073, § 3 (part), 2024)
§ 1.04.013 RECOVERY OF ADMINISTRATIVE CITATION FINES, LATE PAYMENT CHARGES AND
COLLECTION COSTS.
   The county may collect any past due administrative citation fine, late
payment charge(s), and its collections costs by use of all available legal
means. The failure of any person to pay a fine assessed by an administrative
citation or a late payment charge or collections costs related to an
administrative citation, by the due date shall constitute a debt to the county.
The county may seek payment of the debt by use of all available legal means,
including but not limited to the following:
   (A)   The county may refer the debt to the Auditor and controller for
collection.
   (B)   The county may file a civil action to recover the debt.
   (C)   The county may impose a code enforcement lien upon the real property
upon which the violation is located. The lien shall continue until all fines,
late payment charges and other costs owed are fully paid. Any lien imposed
pursuant to this chapter shall attach upon the recordation of a notice of code
enforcement lien in the Office of the County Recorder.
   (D)   Recovery through the Franchise Tax Board.
(Ord. 917, § 1(part), 2013; Ord. 1073, § 3 (part), 2024)
§ 1.04.014 RIGHT TO JUDICIAL REVIEW.
   Any person aggrieved by an administrative decision of the hearing officer on
an administrative citation may obtain review of the administrative decision by
filing a petition for review with the Superior Court in San Benito County in
accordance with the time lines and provisions set forth in Cal. Gov’t Code §
53069.4.
(Ord. 917, § 1(part), 2013; Ord. 1073, § 3 (part), 2024)
§ 1.04.015 SERVICE.
   Except as otherwise specified in §
1.04.004 all decisions or notices required to be served by this chapter may be
given either by personal delivery to the person to be notified or by deposit in
the United States mail, in a sealed envelope, postage prepaid, addressed to
such person to be notified at the last known business or residence address as
the same appears in the last equalized county assessment roll or as identified
in the county records pertaining to the matter. Service by mail shall be deemed
completed at the time deposit in the United States mail receptacle is made.
Failure to receive any notice specified herein does not affect the validity of
proceedings conducted hereunder.
(Ord. 917, § 1(part), 2013; Ord. 1073, § 3 (part), 2024)
CHAPTER 1.05: PUBLIC ENTITY OFFSET DISPUTE
Section
   
1.05.001   Public entity offset dispute resolution
§ 1.05.001 PUBLIC ENTITY OFFSET DISPUTE RESOLUTION.
   When a written dispute is submitted to the county under Cal. Gov’t Code §
907, the dispute shall be referred to the Office of Administrative Hearings of
the State of California, acting as county hearing officer pursuant to Cal.
Gov’t Code §§ 27720 et seq. (Title 3, Division 2, Part 3, Chapter 14), which
shall hear the dispute and make a final written determination thereof,
including findings of fact and conclusions of law. The determination shall
resolve the dispute.
(1966 Code, § 23-1) (Ord. 591, § 1)
CHAPTER 1.06: ALTERNATIVE PUBLIC NUISANCE
ABATEMENT PROCEDURES AND REMEDIES
Section
   
1.06.010   Purpose, effect, authority, and policy
   
1.06.020   Definitions
   
1.06.030   Conditions creating public nuisance
   
1.06.040   Nuisance abatement authority
   
1.06.050   No duty to enforce
   
1.06.060   Duty of owners and occupants; no unlawful activity permitted
   
1.06.070   Administrative civil remedies
   
1.06.080   Notices
   
1.06.090   Service of notices
   
1.06.100   Recordation of notices
   
1.06.110   Administrative hearing
   
1.06.120   Enforcement of abatement order
   
1.06.130   Liability for abatement costs and/or administrative penalties;
interest
   
1.06.140   Lien hearing
   
1.06.150   Alternative lien hearing procedure
   
1.06.160   Enforcement by civil action
   
1.06.170   Refusal to issue permits
   
1.06.180   Transfer of title, interest, or possession
   
1.06.190   Remedies cumulative
   
1.06.200   Severability
§ 1.06.010 PURPOSE, EFFECT, AUTHORITY, AND POLICY.
   (A)   It is the intent of the Board of Supervisors of the County of San
Benito in adopting this chapter to provide alternative procedures that govern
the identification and abatement of public nuisances, as well as, the
imposition, enforcement, collection, and administrative review of
administrative penalties for violation of the San Benito County Code and/or
State laws within the County of San Benito.
   (B)   The provisions of this chapter are supplementary to and cumulative
with all other remedies provided in the San Benito County Code and applicable
state and federal law. Nothing herein shall be read, interpreted or construed
in any manner so as to limit any existing right or power of the County of San
Benito or any other authorized governmental entity to enforce county
ordinances, abate any and all nuisances, or employ any remedy otherwise
available at law or in equity.
   (C)   Pursuant to the authority granted by Article XI, Section 7 of the
California Constitution, and Cal. Gov’t Code, §§ 25845 and 53069.4, the Board
of Supervisors does enact this chapter, which shall be known and may be cited
as the “Alternative Public Nuisance Abatement Procedures and Remedies.”
   (D)   It is the policy of San Benito County to seek voluntary compliance
with these provisions, but to provide an effective means of enforcement if such
compliance is not obtained.
(Ord. 960, § 1, 2017; Ord. 1,029, § 2(part), 2021; Ord. 1073, § 3 (part), 2024)
§ 1.06.020 DEFINITIONS.
   The following definitions shall apply to this chapter as written unless
context indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABATEMENT. The removal of the condition(s) constituting a nuisance as
identified in the notice issued by the enforcing officer.
   ABATEMENT COSTS. Any costs or expenses, including county staff time
reasonably related to the abatement of a public nuisance under this chapter,
and shall include, but shall not be limited to, enforcement, investigation,
summaries, reports, notices, telephonic contact, correspondence, mailing
expense, title search costs, administrative costs, including the total direct
and indirect costs of enforcement established by generally accepted accounting
principles that are reasonably and necessarily incurred by the county to
investigate, inspect, or cure any violation or monitor the recurrence of any
violation that is the subject of a notice issued by the enforcing officer,
including, but not limited to, scheduling and participation at hearings,
hearing officer costs, expenses incurred by the county, and any other costs
associated with the removal, abatement or correction of a violation.
   CONTIGUOUS. Any two legal parcels which share a mutual boundary.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, legal parcels shall be considered contiguous,
even if they are separated by roads, streets, utility easements or railroad
rights-of-way.
   COUNTY. The County of San Benito.
   COUNTY HEARING OFFICER. A person designated by the Board of Supervisors and
appointed to the position of Hearing Officer, as established by San Benito
County Code Ch. 1.07, and who is independently authorized to conduct
administrative hearings and issue recommended decisions pursuant to and as
authorized by the San Benito County Code.
   ENFORCING OFFICER or CODE ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. The San Benito County
Resources Management Agency Director, Building Official, Building Inspector,
Cannabis Coordinator, Health Officer, Sheriff, Agricultural Commissioner, Fire
Chief, or their authorized deputies or designee(s), and any person employed by
the County of San Benito and appointed to the position of CODE
ENFORCEMENT OFFICER, as established by San Benito County Res. 90-27 and Ords.
567 and 625, each of whom is independently authorized to enforce this chapter.
   LEGAL PARCEL. Any parcel of real property for which one legal title exists
that may be separately sold in compliance with the Subdivision Map Act
(commencing with Cal. Gov’t Code § 66410, Title 7, Div. 2). Where contiguous
LEGAL PARCELS are under common ownership or control, such LEGAL PARCELS shall
be counted as a single premises for purposes of this chapter.
   PREMISES. A single, legal parcel of real property. In addition, where
contiguous legal parcels are under common ownership or control, such contiguous
legal parcels shall be counted as a single PREMISES for purposes of this
chapter.
   RESPONSIBLE PARTY. An individual or legal entity, or the agent or legal
guardian of such individual or entity, whose action or failure to act results
in a violation. This term specifically means and includes, but is not limited
to, any of the following:
      (1)   Any person or entity that causes, maintains, permits, or allows a
violation of this chapter;
      (2)   Any person or entity that owns, possesses, or controls any parcel
of real property in the county upon which a violation of this chapter is
maintained;
      (3)   Any trustee of any trust that holds legal title to any parcel of
real property in the county upon which a violation of this chapter is
maintained;
      (4)   Any person or entity that owns, possesses, operates, manages, or
controls any business within the county that is responsible for causing or
maintaining a violation of this chapter.
(Ord. 960, § 1, 2017; Ord. 1,029, § 2(part), 2021; Ord. 1073, § 3 (part), 2024)
§ 1.06.030 CONDITIONS CREATING PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   (A)   Without limiting any other provision of this code, any and all of the
following are hereby declared unlawful and a public nuisance and a violation of
this code:
      (1)   Any condition, act, or omission declared by any statute of the
State of California or any provision of this code to be a public nuisance;
      (2)   Any public nuisance known or recognized in common law or equity;
      (3)   Any condition which is injurious to health, including, but not
limited to, the illegal sale of controlled substances, or is indecent or
offensive to the senses, or an obstruction to the free use of property, so as
to interfere with the comfortable enjoyment of life or property, or unlawfully
obstructs the free passage or use, in the customary manner, of any navigable
lake, or river, bay, stream, canal, or basin, or any public park, square,
street, or highway, is a nuisance, as defined in Cal. Civil Code § 3479;
      (4)   Any use or condition of property that:
         (a)   Poses a danger to human life; or
         (b)   Is unsafe or detrimental to the public health, safety, or
welfare.
      (5)   Any use of land, buildings, or premises established, operated, or
maintained contrary to the provisions of any provision of this code or state
law;
      (6)   Any real property that has been the situs for nuisance activity
and/or violations of any provision of this code or any other state or federal
law or regulation, including, but not limited to: disturbing the peace,
unreasonably loud noise, loitering, harassment of passersby, illegal gambling,
prostitution, sale of stolen goods, acts of violence, acts of vandalism, acts
of lewd conduct, public urination, illegal drug activity, public drunkenness,
drinking alcoholic beverages in public, or excessive littering.
      (7)   Any building or property used for the purpose of willfully
conducting dogfighting in violation of Cal. Penal Code § 597.5 or cockfighting
in violation of subdivision (b) of Cal. Penal Code § 597b is a public nuisance.
      (8)   Any condition that constitutes a visual blight to a reasonable
person of average sensibilities. For purposes of this chapter, visual blight is
any unreasonable or unlawful condition or use of real property, premises, or
building exteriors which by reason of its appearance as viewed at ground level
from the public right-of-way or from neighboring premises, is detrimental to
the property of others or to the value of property of others, offensive to the
senses, or significantly degrades the aesthetic appearance of the neighborhood.
Visual blight may include, but is not limited to, the keeping, storing,
depositing, scattering over or accumulation on the premises any of the
following:
         (a)   Junk, trash, debris, scrap metal, wood, rubbish, or packing
materials, including, but not limited to, building, construction, salvage, and/
or recyclable material;
         (b)   Abandoned, discarded or unused objects or equipment, such as
furniture, stoves, appliances, refrigerators, freezers, or other household
fixtures, cans or containers, or automotive parts and equipment;
         (c)   Abandoned, wrecked, disabled, dismantled or inoperative vehicles
or parts thereof except inoperative vehicles that are not abandoned, are either
registered or are certified pursuant to Cal. Vehicle Code § 4604 and are in an
active state of renovation or restoration, or are maintained and stored in
accordance with Cal. Vehicle Code § 5052;
         (d)   Stagnant water or abandoned excavations;
         (e)   The existence of overgrown, dead, decayed, diseased or hazardous
trees, and other vegetation, including but not limited to dead agricultural
groves which are:
            1.   Likely to attract rodents, vermin or other nuisances;
            2.   Constitutes a fire hazard; or
            3.   Is dangerous to the public safety and welfare.
         (f)   Any personal property, object, device, decoration, design,
fence, structure or clothesline which is unsightly by reason of its condition
or its inappropriate location.
      (9)   Any condition that constitutes an attractive nuisance; those
dangerous objects or conditions that, by their nature may attract children or
other curious individuals, including, but not limited to, unprotected hazardous
or unfilled pools, ponds, ice boxes, refrigerators, freezers, abandoned wells,
shafts, septic tanks, or other excavations.
      (10)   Each and every violation of the provisions of chapter 7.02 -
Cannabis Businesses is hereby deemed unlawful and a public nuisance.
      (11)   Continuation of any use or activity on any property after a stop
work notice has been issued by an enforcing officer.
   (B)   Acts, omissions, or conditions in violation of this chapter that
continue, exist, or occur on more than one calendar day constitute separate
violations on each day. Violations continuing, existing, or occurring on the
service date, the effective date, and each day between the service date and the
effective date are separate violations. For each day the nuisance continues to
exist, a separate administrative penalty shall be imposed.
   (C)   The Board of Supervisors of the County of San Benito finds that
certain conditions as defined in this section cause annoyance, inconvenience or
damage to the public with respect to the public’s comfort, health, safety,
welfare and enjoyment of property. It is the purpose and intent of the Board of
Supervisors to define and proscribe those conditions which are injurious to the
public and which constitute a public nuisance, having carefully weighed the
interests of the public against the interests of private property owners and
possessors in the free use of their property.
(Ord. 960, § 1, 2017; Ord. 1,029, § 2(part), 2021; Ord. 1073, § 3 (part), 2024)
§ 1.06.040 NUISANCE ABATEMENT AUTHORITY.
   (A)   Whenever necessary to investigate and ascertain, and/or to abate any
violation of the provisions of this chapter, or whenever there is reasonable
cause to believe that there exists a violation of this chapter, the enforcing
officer may enter onto any premises or into any building upon presentation of
proper credentials to the owner and/or the occupant thereof. Notwithstanding
the foregoing, the enforcing officer may enter onto any premises or into any
building under authority of warrant issues pursuant to Cal. Code of Civil
Procedure §§ 1822.50 et seq. All costs incurred by the county in seeking and
obtaining an inspection and/or abatement warrant may be recoverable as
abatement costs.
   (B)   Upon discovering a public nuisance as defined in this chapter, the
enforcing officer may do any one or more of the following:
      (1)   Issue a notice of violation, and record the notice of violation;
      (2)   Issue a notice to abate a public nuisance, record the notice to
abate, and abate the public nuisance;
      (3)   Impose, determine, and collect an administrative civil penalty;
      (4)   Issue a stop work order requiring immediate cessation of the use or
activity in accordance with this chapter;
      (5)   Seek relief from any court to abate the nuisance and/or collect
civil penalties and abatement costs through the Office of the County Counsel,
without first going through the administrative procedures set forth in this
chapter; or
      (6)   Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, when any
nuisance described in §
1.06.030 constitutes an immediate threat to public health, safety, and/or
welfare, and when the procedures set forth in this chapter would not result in
abatement of that nuisance within a short enough time period to avoid that
threat, the enforcing officer may direct any officer or employee of the county
to summarily abate the nuisance. The enforcing officer shall make reasonable
efforts to notify the responsible parties, but the formal notice and hearing
procedures in this chapter shall not apply; however, the enforcing officer
shall issue a post-deprivation notice to the responsible parties. The county
may nevertheless recover all its costs for abating that nuisance in the manner
set forth in this chapter.
(Ord. 960, § 1, 2017; Ord. 1,029, § 2(part), 2021; Ord. 1073, § 3 (part), 2024)
§ 1.06.050 NO DUTY TO ENFORCE.
   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed as imposing on the enforcing
officer or the County of San Benito any duty to issue any notice hereunder, nor
to abate any nuisance, nor to take any other action with regard to any
nuisance. Neither the enforcing officer nor the County of San Benito shall be
liable for failure to issue any notice hereunder, nor for failure to abate any
nuisance, nor for failure to take any other action with regard to any nuisance.
(Ord. 960, § 1, 2017; Ord. 1,029, § 2(part), 2021; Ord. 1073, § 3 (part), 2024)
§ 1.06.060 DUTY OF OWNERS AND OCCUPANTS; NO UNLAWFUL ACTIVITY PERMITTED.
   No person or entity owning, leasing, occupying or having charge or
possession of any premises within the unincorporated area of the County of San
Benito shall cause, permit, maintain, conduct or otherwise suffer or allow a
public nuisance to exist. It shall be the duty of every owner, occupant, and
person that controls any land or interest therein within the unincorporated
area of the County of San Benito to remove, abate, and prevent the reoccurrence
of the public nuisance upon such land. Such duty of an owner shall exist
regardless of whether the owner is in actual possession of his or her real
property, and may include an obligation to take action to evict or otherwise
remove an occupier who creates a public nuisance upon the owner’s property.
Nothing in this chapter shall be deemed to authorize or permit any activity
that violates any provision of state or federal law.
(Ord. 960, § 1, 2017; Ord. 1,029, § 2(part), 2021; Ord. 1073, § 3 (part), 2024)
§ 1.06.070 ADMINISTRATIVE CIVIL REMEDIES.
   (A)   In addition to any other remedy or penalty prescribed in this chapter,
any public nuisance violation may be subject to an administrative civil penalty
in the following amounts:
      (1)   Up to $1,000 per day, or part thereof, for the first violation.
      (2)   Up to $2,000 per day, or part thereof, for a second violation of
the same ordinance within one year;
      (3)   Up to $5,000 per day, or part thereof, for each additional
violation of the same ordinance within one year of the first violation;
      (4)   Notwithstanding any other part of this code, any violation of
building, plumbing, electrical, or other similar structural, health and safety,
or zoning requirements, if the violation exists as a result of or to
facilitate, the illegal cultivation, manufacture, or distribution of cannabis,
without the benefit of a commercial cannabis business permit issued through San
Benito County, shall constitute a misdemeanor and be subject to an immediate
daily fine of $10,000 commencing on the date the notice of violation is issued.
   (B)   Notwithstanding any other part of this code, any violation of
building, plumbing, electrical, or other similar structural, health and safety,
or zoning requirements, if the violation exists as a result of or to
facilitate, the illegal cultivation, manufacture, or distribution of cannabis,
while in possession of a valid commercial cannabis business permit issued by
the County of San Benito, shall constitute a violation of Chapters 7.02 and
19.43 of this code, and will be subject to the following fines:
      (1)   The fine for a violation imposed pursuant to this chapter shall be
$1,000 for the first occurrence of a violation;
      (2)   $2,000 for the second occurrence of the violation; and
      (3)   $5,000 for the third occurrence and revocation of cannabis business
permit as issued by San Benito County.
   (C)   Notwithstanding any other part of this code, any violation of a stop
work notice shall be subject to an immediate fine of $2,500 per day.
   (D)   In determining the amount of the administrative penalty, the enforcing
officer, or the court if the violation requires court enforcement without an
administrative process, shall take into consideration the nature,
circumstances, duration, extent, and gravity of the violation(s), any prior
history of violations, the degree of culpability, economic impact, impact of
the nuisance upon the community, and any other factors as justice may require.
   (E)   The administrative penalty may be imposed via the administrative
processes set forth in this chapter, as provided in Cal. Gov’t Code § 53069.4,
or may be imposed by the court if the violation requires court enforcement
without an administrative process.
   (F)   In the case of a continuing violation, if the violation does not
create an immediate danger to health or safety, or is not subject to immediate
fines as set forth herein, the enforcing officer or the court shall provide for
a reasonable period of time for the person responsible for the violation to
correct or otherwise remedy the violation prior to the imposition of
administrative penalties.
   (G)   Per Board of Supervisors’ resolution, maximum daily accrual of fines
may not exceed 90 days.
(Ord. 960, § 1, 2017; Ord. 1,029, § 2(part), 2021; Ord. 1073, § 3 (part), 2024)
§ 1.06.080 NOTICES.
   Whenever the enforcing officer determines that a public nuisance as
described in this chapter exists on any real property within the unincorporated
area of San Benito County, he or she is authorized to issue any of the
following notices in accordance with this chapter:
   (A)   Notice of violation (“NOV”). The notice of violation shall be in
writing and shall:
      (1)   Identify the responsible parties, including owner(s) of the
property upon which the nuisance exists, as named in the records of the County
Assessor, and occupant(s), if other than the owner(s), and if known or
reasonably identifiable (collectively, the “recipients”);
      (2)   Describe the location of such property by its commonly used street
address, giving the name or number of the street, road or highway and the
number, if any, of the property;
      (3)   Identify such property by reference to the assessor’s parcel
number;
      (4)   Contain a statement that one or more conditions described in §
1.06.030 exist on the premises and that it has been determined by the enforcing
officer to be a public nuisance as described in this chapter. The statement
required under this paragraph shall describe the nuisance conditions with
reference to applicable provisions of this code and/or state law upon which the
enforcing officer based his or her determination;
      (5)   Contain a statement that the recipient(s) must abate the nuisance
within the time stated on the notice of violation that was served, describe the
action(s) required to abate the nuisance, and set forth the proposed amount of
any administrative penalty (per violation, per day) to be imposed if the
conditions are not abated within the time stated;
      (6)   Contain a statement that unless the recipient(s) voluntarily abate
the nuisance within the time specified in division (A)(5) of this section, that
the enforcing officer may issue additional notices in accordance with this
chapter, and may further record the notice of violation on the subject property
with the San Benito County Recorder’s Office;
      (7)   Contain a statement that the recipient(s) may request an
administrative hearing to determine whether the conditions identified in the
notice of violation constitute a public nuisance by submitting a written
request to the enforcing officer no later than seven calendar days of the date
of the notice of violation. This written request must identify the recipient
(s), provide the recipient(s) contact information, and set forth the reason(s)
the hearing is requested. If any responsible party properly requests a hearing,
they shall be notified when the matter has been set for hearing. Failure of the
recipient(s) to appear at the scheduled hearing and present evidence shall
constitute a failure to exhaust administrative remedies.
   (B)   Notice to abate a public nuisance (“notice to abate”). The notice to
abate a public nuisance shall be in writing and shall:
      (1)   Identify the responsible parties, including owner(s) of the
property upon which the nuisance exists, as named in the records of the County
Assessor, and occupant(s), if other than the owner(s), and if known or
reasonably identifiable (collectively, the “recipients”);
      (2)   Describe the location of such property by its commonly used street
address, giving the name or number of the street, road or highway and the
number, if any, of the property;
      (3)   Identify such property by reference to the assessor’s parcel
number;
      (4)   Contain a statement that one or more conditions described in §
1.06.030 exist on the premises and that it has been determined by the enforcing
officer to be a public nuisance as described in this chapter. The statement
required under this paragraph shall describe the nuisance conditions with
reference to applicable provisions of this code and/or state law upon which the
enforcing officer based his or her determination;
      (5)   Contain a statement that the recipient(s) must abate the nuisance
within the time stated on the notice of violation that was served, describe the
action(s) required to abate the nuisance, set forth the proposed amount of any
administrative penalty (per violation, per day) to be imposed if the conditions
are not abated within the time stated, and the enforcing officer’s intent to
record a Notice of Pending Nuisance Abatement Proceeding with the San Benito
County Recorder in accordance with §
1.06.100;
      (6)   Contain a statement that the recipient(s) may request an
administrative hearing to determine whether the conditions identified in the
notice of abate constitute a public nuisance by submitting a written request to
the enforcing officer no later than seven calendar days of the date of the
notice of abate. This written request must identify the recipient(s), provide
the recipient(s) contact information, and set forth the reason(s) the hearing
is requested. If any responsible party properly requests a hearing, they shall
be notified when the matter has been set for hearing. Failure of the recipient
(s) to appear at the scheduled hearing and present evidence shall constitute a
failure to exhaust administrative remedies.
      (7)   Contain a statement that, unless the recipient(s) timely abate the
nuisance, or show good cause before the County Hearing Officer why the
conditions should not be abated, the enforcing officer will abate the nuisance.
It shall also state that the abatement costs, including administrative costs,
may be made a special assessment added to the county assessment roll and become
a lien on the real property, or be placed on the unsecured tax roll in
accordance with this chapter.
   (C)   Post-deprivation notice. The post-deprivation notice shall be in
writing and shall:
      (1)   Identify the responsible parties, including owner(s) of the
property upon which the nuisance exists, as named in the records of the County
Assessor, and occupant(s), if other than the owner(s), if known or reasonably
identifiable (collectively, the “recipients”);
      (2)   Describe the location of such property by its commonly used street
address, giving the name or number of the street, road or highway and the
number, if any, of the property;
      (3)   Identify such property by reference to the assessor’s parcel
number;
      (4)   Contain a statement that one or more conditions described in §
1.06.030 existed on the premises and that it was determined by the enforcing
officer to be a public nuisance as described in this chapter. The statement
required under this paragraph shall describe the nuisance conditions with
reference to applicable provisions of this code and/or state law upon which the
enforcing officer based his or her determination, and set forth the proposed
amount of any administrative penalty (per violation, per day) to be imposed;
      (5)   That the enforcing officer summarily abated the nuisance existing
on the premises after it was deemed that other administrative procedures would
not result in abatement of the nuisance, which constituted an immediate threat
to public health, safety, and/or welfare, within a short enough period of time
to avoid said threat;
      (6)   Contain a statement that the recipient(s) may request an
administrative hearing to determine whether the conditions identified in the
notice of abate constituted a public nuisance by submitting a written request
to the enforcing officer no later than seven calendar days of the date of the
notice of abate. This written request must identify the recipient(s), provide
the recipient(s) contact information, and set forth the reason(s) the hearing
is requested. If any responsible party properly requests a hearing, they shall
be notified when the matter has been set for hearing. Failure of the recipient
(s) to appear at the scheduled hearing and present evidence shall constitute a
failure to exhaust administrative remedies.
   (D)   Stop work notice. The stop work notice shall be in writing and shall:
      (1)   Identify the responsible parties, including owner(s) of the
property upon which the nuisance exists, as named in the records of the County
Assessor, and occupant(s), if other than the owner(s), if known or reasonably
identifiable (collectively, the “recipients”);
      (2)   Describe the location of such property by its commonly used street
address, giving the name or number of the street, road or highway and the
number, if any, of the property;
      (3)   Identify such property by reference to the assessor’s parcel
number;
      (4)   Contain a statement that one or more conditions described in §
1.06.030 exist on the premises and that it has been determined by the enforcing
officer to be a public nuisance as described in this chapter. The statement
required under this paragraph shall describe the nuisance conditions with
reference to applicable provisions of this code and/or state law upon which the
enforcing officer based his or her determination;
      (5)   Contain a statement that the enforcing officer has ordered the
immediate cessation of any use or activity constituting a public nuisance, and
set forth the proposed amount of any administrative penalty (per violation, per
day) to be imposed if the conditions are not abated within the time stated;
      (6)   Contain a statement that it is unlawful and a violation of this
code for any person to resume any use or activity that the enforcing officer
ordered to be stopped, unless the enforcing officer has expressly authorized
the recipient(s) to resume the use or activity based upon the recipient(s)
written agreement to take corrective action to abate the nuisance;
      (7)   Contain a statement that the recipient(s) may request an
administrative hearing to determine whether the conditions identified in the
stop work notice constitute a public nuisance by submitting a written request
to the enforcing officer no later than seven calendar days of the date of the
stop work notice. This written request must identify the recipient(s), provide
the recipient(s) contact information, and set forth the reason(s) the hearing
is requested. If any responsible party properly requests a hearing, they shall
be notified when the matter has been set for hearing. Failure of the recipient
(s) to appear at the scheduled hearing and present evidence shall constitute a
failure to exhaust administrative remedies.
      (8)   Contain a statement that the timely submission of a request for
hearing shall not permit the resumption of the use or activity that the
enforcing officer ordered to be ceased.
   (E)   Notice of refusal to issue permits (“refusal to issue”). The refusal
to issue shall be in writing and shall:
      (1)   Identify the responsible parties, including owner(s) of the
property upon which the nuisance exists, as named in the records of the County
Assessor, and occupant(s), if other than the owner(s), and if known or
reasonably identifiable (collectively, the “recipients”);
      (2)   Describe the location of such property by its commonly used street
address, giving the name or number of the street, road or highway and the
number, if any, of the property;
      (3)   Identify such property by reference to the assessor’s parcel
number;
      (4)   Contain a statement that one or more conditions described in §
1.06.030 exist on the premises and that it has been determined by the enforcing
officer to be a public nuisance as described in this chapter. The statement
required under this paragraph shall describe the nuisance conditions with
reference to applicable provisions of this code and/or state law upon which the
enforcing officer based his or her determination.
      (5)   (a)   If the applicant disagrees with the determination that a
violation exists, he or she may request a hearing in accordance with §
1.06.110 within 30 calendar days after issuance of the refusal to issue. A
written request for hearing shall be submitted to the Resources Management
Agency.
         (b)   If any applicant requests a hearing in accordance with this
subdivision, they shall be notified in accordance with §
1.06.090, when the matter has been set for hearing. Failure of the applicant(s)
to appear at the scheduled hearing and present evidence shall constitute a
failure to exhaust administrative remedies.
   (F)   Invoice for abatement costs and/or administrative penalties
(“invoice”). The invoice shall be in writing and shall:
      (1)   Identify the responsible parties, including owner(s) of the
property upon which the nuisance exists, as named in the records of the County
Assessor, and occupant(s), if other than the owner(s), if known or reasonably
identifiable (collectively, the “recipients”);
      (2)   Describe the location of such property by its commonly used street
address, giving the name or number of the street, road or highway and the
number, if any, of the property;
      (3)   Identify such property by reference to the assessor’s parcel
number;
      (4)   Set forth the amount(s) due and owing for abatement costs,
including administrative costs incurred by the county to abate the nuisance
and/or administrative penalties imposed, including any interest which has
accrued on any amount due under this chapter from the effective date of the
Board of Supervisors’ decision, as set forth in this chapter;
      (5)   A demand for payment of said costs, including accrued interest, to
be paid within 30 calendar days after service of the invoice;
      (6)   If said amounts due and owing are not timely satisfied in full, a
lien hearing may be held in accordance with §§
1.06.140 and
1.06.150.
(Ord. 960, § 1, 2017; Ord. 1,029, § 2(part), 2021; Ord. 1073, § 3 (part), 2024)
§ 1.06.090 SERVICE OF NOTICES.
   (A)   Any notice issued by the enforcing officer in accordance with this
chapter may be served in the following manner:
      (1)   By delivering it personally to the responsible parties. Service
shall be deemed to have been completed upon personal delivery;
      (2)   By certified mail, addressed to:
         (a)   The owner at the address shown on the last equalized assessment
roll or as otherwise known to the enforcing officer; and
         (b)   To anyone known to the enforcing officer to be in possession of
the property at the street address of the property subject to the notice, if
the property is capable of receiving mail. Service shall be deemed to have been
completed upon the deposit of said notice, postage prepaid, in the United
States mail.
      (3)   In the event that, after reasonable effort, the enforcing officer
is unable to serve the notice as set forth above, service shall be accomplished
by posting a copy of such notice conspicuously along the frontage of the real
property subject to the notice, or if the property has no frontage, upon any
street, highway, or road then upon the portion of the property nearest to a
street, highway, or road, or most likely to give actual notice to the owner and
any person known by the enforcing officer to be in possession of the property.
Service shall be deemed to have been completed upon posting.
   (B)   The failure to serve any person described in this section shall not
affect the validity of service or the validity of any administrative penalties
imposed pursuant to this chapter upon any other person.
   (C)   The failure of any responsible party to receive such notice shall not
affect the validity of the proceedings.
   (D)   Notwithstanding the foregoing, with the consent of a responsible
party, notices under this chapter may be provided by electronic mail (e-mail)
or any other means reasonably calculated to provide notice.
(Ord. 960, § 1, 2017; Ord. 1,029, § 2(part), 2021; Ord. 1073, § 3 (part), 2024)
§ 1.06.100 RECORDATION OF NOTICES.
   (A)   Notice of pending nuisance abatement proceeding.
      (1)   Upon issuance of a notice to abate, the enforcing officer may
record a notice of pending nuisance abatement proceeding with the San Benito
County Recorder and shall notify the responsible parties of such action. A
notice of pending nuisance abatement proceeding shall describe the premises and
the condition in violation of this chapter.
      (2)   If a notice of pending nuisance abatement proceeding is recorded,
the enforcing officer shall serve and record a notice of final disposition when
the nuisance abatement proceeding has been completed, including any appeals and
the completion of any work necessary to abate the nuisance.
   (B)   Notice of final disposition. If the work to abate the nuisance is
performed at county expense, the notice of final disposition need not be issued
until those costs have been paid or a lien for those costs has been recorded in
accordance with §§
1.06.140 and
1.06.150. A fee shall be paid by the responsible parties for processing the
notice of final disposition. The notice of final disposition shall be served
upon any party that was served with the notice and order.
   (C)   Notice of non-compliance.
      (1)   The enforcing officer may record a notice of non-compliance with
the San Benito County Recorder on the property which is the subject of a notice
under this chapter if:
         (a)   The time limit for abatement expires and abatement has not
occurred;
         (b)   A use or activity continues after issuance of a stop work
notice; or
         (c)   If a hearing is held, after the county hearing officer has
determined responsibility.
      (2)   The notice of non-compliance filed with the San Benito County
Recorder shall include a copy of the applicable notice as an attachment.
   (D)   Notice of compliance.
      (1)   Upon completion of all work to abate a nuisance, including securing
of permits where required, and payment of all abatement costs and/or
administrative penalties imposed pursuant to this chapter, the enforcing
officer may record a notice of compliance with the San Benito County Recorder
and shall notify the owner(s) of such action.
   (E)   Notice of pendency.
      (1)   Whenever the county institutes a judicial action or proceeding to
enforce a land use ordinance, a notice of pendency of the action or proceeding
may be filed with the County Recorder’s Office. The notice of pendency may be
filed at the time of the commencement of the action or proceeding and upon
recordation of the notice of pendency, shall have the same effect as a notice
recorded in compliance with the Cal. Code of Civil Procedure, §§ 405.20 et
seq., as amended.
      (2)   Upon motion of a party to the judicial action or proceeding, the
notice of pendency may be vacated upon an appropriate showing of need therefore
by an order of a judge of the court in which the action or proceeding is
pending.
(Ord. 960, § 1, 2017; Ord. 1,029, § 2(part), 2021; Ord. 1073, § 3 (part), 2024)
§ 1.06.110 ADMINISTRATIVE HEARING.
   (A)   If the enforcing officer determines that all violations have been
timely corrected, the enforcing officer may clear the notice and no hearing
shall be required.
   (B)   The Board of Supervisors may delegate its authority to conduct the
administrative proceedings set forth in this section to the County Hearing
Officer appointed by the Board of Supervisors pursuant to
Ch. 1.07 of the San Benito County Code and Cal Gov’t Code § 27720, as amended.
The Hearing Officer shall have full authority and duty to preside over hearings
in the manner set forth in
Ch. 1.07 of the San Benito County Code.
   (C)   Administrative hearing and recommended decision. Pursuant to Cal.
Gov’t Code § 25845(h), and
Chapter 1.07 of the San Benito County Code, the County Hearing Officer shall
hold an administrative hearing as follows:
      (1)   A hearing shall be held within 30 days of the county’s receipt of a
written request for an administrative hearing, unless the parties agree
otherwise, and the county shall provide notice of the time, date, and location
of the hearing. Hearings may be held virtually at the election of the county.
      (2)   At the hearing, the County Hearing Officer shall determine:
         (a)   With respect to a notice of violation:
            1.   Whether the conditions existing on the property constitute a
nuisance under this chapter;
            2.   Whether to impose, modify, or disapprove, in whole or in part,
any proposed administrative penalties; and
            3.   Whether the enforcing officer may record any notices.
         (b)   With respect to a notice to abate:
            1.   Whether the conditions existing on the property constitute a
nuisance under this chapter;
            2.   Whether there is any other good cause why those conditions
should not be abated;
            3.   Whether the hearing officer should impose, modify, or
disapprove, in whole or in part, any proposed administrative penalties; and
            4.   Whether the hearing officer should permit the enforcing
officer to record any notices.
         (c)   With respect to post-deprivation notices:
            1.   Whether the conditions existing on the property constitute a
nuisance under this chapter;
            2.   Whether the conditions existing on the property constituted an
immediate threat the public health, safety, and/or welfare such that the
alternative procedures set forth in this chapter would not have resulted in
abatement of the nuisance within a short enough period of time to avoid said
threat;
            3.   Whether the Hearing Officer should impose, modify, or
disapprove, in whole or in part, any proposed administrative penalties; and
            4.   Whether the means of abatement were reasonable.
         (d)   With respect to stop work notices.
            1.   Whether the conditions existing on the property constitute a
nuisance under this chapter;
            2.   Whether the hearing officer should impose, modify, or
disapprove, in whole or in part, any proposed administrative penalties.
         (e)   With respect to a notice of refusal to issue permits:
            1.   Whether the conditions existing on the property constitute a
nuisance under this chapter.
      (3)   At the hearing, the responsible parties shall be given an
opportunity to present and elicit testimony and other relevant evidence.
Failure of the responsible parties to appear and present evidence at the
hearing shall be deemed a withdrawal of the request for hearing or a waiver of
the right to be personally present at the hearing, and shall constitute a
failure to exhaust administrative remedies.
      (4)   In the event that the responsible parties do not appear and present
evidence at the hearing, the County Hearing Officer may base its recommended
decision solely upon the evidence submitted by the enforcing officer.
      (5)   Any hearing conducted pursuant to this chapter need not be
conducted according to technical rules relating to evidence, witnesses and
hearsay. Any relevant evidence shall be admitted if it is the sort of evidence
on which responsible persons are accustomed to rely in the conduct of serious
affairs regardless of the existence of any common law or statutory rule which
might make improper the admission of the evidence over objection in civil
actions. The County Hearing Officer has discretion to exclude evidence if its
probative value is substantially outweighed by the probability that its
admission will necessitate undue consumption of time.
      (6)   The standard of proof shall be by a preponderance of the evidence
and the burden of proof to establish the existence of the nuisance shall be
borne by the enforcing official. The burden of proof that the nuisance has been
abated shall be borne by the responsible parties.
      (7)   The County Hearing Officer may continue the hearing from time to
time. Prior to a scheduled hearing, the enforcing officer or the responsible
parties may submit a written request for continuance to the county hearing
officer. The County Hearing Officer shall issue his or her determination by any
means likely to provide notice to the parties at the soonest time possible. In
the event the request for continuance is granted, the county hearing officer
shall also provide the date and time for the rescheduled hearing.
      (8)   The County Hearing Officer shall consider the matter de novo.
      (9)   After the hearing, the County Hearing Officer shall issue a
recommended decision in the form of a resolution which shall be served in any
manner agreed upon by the parties. If no manner is agreed upon, then service
shall be by first class mail, postage prepaid, to, or personally served upon,
all parties appearing at the hearing and any other parties upon whom the notice
was served.
   (D)   The Board of Supervisors shall review the following all recommended
decisions from the County Hearing Officer as follows:
      (1)   The county shall promptly present the recommended decision to the
Board of Supervisors. The Board of Supervisors may adopt the recommendation
without further notice of hearing, or may set the matter for a de novo hearing
before the Board of Supervisors.
      (2)   In the event that the Board of Supervisors sets the matter for de
novo hearing, such hearing shall be held in accordance with the provisions of
this section.
      (3)   The decision of the Board of Supervisors shall become effective
upon issuance thereof and shall be served by first class mail, postage prepaid,
or personally served upon, all parties appearing at the hearing and any other
parties upon whom the notice was served. Service shall be deemed to have been
completed upon personal service and/or the deposit of said decision, postage
prepaid, in the United States mail.
      (4)   The decision of the Board of Supervisors shall be final and
conclusive.
(Ord. 960, § 1, 2017; Ord. 1,029, § 2(part), 2021; Ord. 1073, § 3 (part), 2024)
§ 1.06.120 ENFORCEMENT OF ABATEMENT ORDER.
   (A)   Any responsible party may abate the nuisance or cause it to be abated
at any time prior to commencement of abatement by, or at the direction of, the
enforcing officer. Such abatement by any responsible party shall not impair the
enforcing officer’s ability to impose any administrative penalty accrued prior
to such abatement.
   (B)   Notwithstanding the foregoing, whenever the enforcing officer becomes
aware that a responsible party has failed to abate any nuisance within 14
calendar days of the date of service of the decision of the Board of
Supervisors requiring such abatement, or such other time specified by the Board
of Supervisors, the enforcing officer may enter upon the property and abate the
nuisance by county personnel, or by private contractor under the direction of
the enforcing officer. The enforcing officer may apply to a court of competent
jurisdiction for a warrant authorizing entry upon the property for purposes of
undertaking the work, if necessary. If any part of the work is to be
accomplished by private contract, that contract shall be submitted to and
approved by the purchasing agent or Board of Supervisors, as applicable, prior
to commencement of work. Nothing herein shall be construed to require that any
private contract under this code be awarded through competitive bidding
procedures where such procedures are not required by the general laws of the
State of California.
   (C)   The costs of abatement and administrative costs for every abatement
carried out under this section may be recovered in accordance with this
chapter.
(Ord. 960, § 1, 2017; Ord. 1,029, § 2(part), 2021; Ord. 1073, § 3 (part), 2024)
§ 1.06.130 LIABILITY FOR ABATEMENT COSTS AND/OR ADMINISTRATIVE PENALTIES;
INTEREST.
   (A)   In any enforcement action brought pursuant to this chapter, whether by
administrative proceedings, judicial proceedings, or summary abatement, each
responsible party who causes, permits, suffers, or maintains the nuisance to
exist shall be personally liable for:
      (1)   All costs incurred by the county, including, but not limited to,
abatement costs, including administrative costs, and any and all costs incurred
to undertake, or to cause or compel any responsible party to undertake, any
abatement action in compliance with the requirements of this chapter, whether
those costs are incurred prior to, during, or following enactment of this
chapter. In addition, the prevailing party shall be entitled to a recovery of
the reasonable attorneys’ fees incurred. Recovery of attorneys’ fees under this
subdivision shall be limited to those actions or proceedings in which the
county elects, at the initiation of that action or proceeding, to seek recovery
of its own attorneys’ fees. In no action, administrative proceeding, or special
proceeding shall an award of attorneys’ fees to a prevailing party exceed the
amount of reasonable attorneys’ fees incurred by the county in the action or
proceeding;
      (2)   Any administrative penalty imposed pursuant to this chapter. In the
event that an administrative penalty is imposed pursuant to this chapter on two
or more responsible parties for the same violation, all such responsible
parties shall be jointly and severally liable for the full amount of the
administrative penalty imposed. Payment of administrative penalties imposed
pursuant to this chapter does not excuse or discharge any continuation or
repeated occurrence of the violation. Payment of the administrative penalty
does not bar the county from taking any other enforcement action regarding a
violation that is not corrected.
   (B)   Interest shall accrue on all amounts due under this chapter, from the
effective date of the Board of Supervisors’ Decision, as set forth in §
1.06.110, to the date paid pursuant to the laws applicable to civil money
judgments.
   (C)   At such time as the information becomes known, the enforcing officer
shall make a demand for abatement costs and/or accrued administrative penalty
by issuing an invoice in accordance with §
1.06.080 to the responsible parties.
   (D)   Whenever the amount of abatement costs, including administrative
costs, incurred by the county to abate the nuisance, or the amount of any
administrative penalty imposed pursuant to this chapter has not been satisfied
in full within 30 calendar days after service of the invoice, and/or has not
been timely appealed to the Superior Court in accordance with Cal. Gov’t Code §
53069.4(b), or if appealed, such appeal has been dismissed or denied, all or
any part of, this obligation may constitute a lien against the real property on
which the violation occurred in accordance with the procedures set forth in §§
1.06.140 and
1.06.150.
   (E)   In addition to any other remedy, the county may prosecute a civil
action through the Office of the County Counsel to collect any costs incurred
to abate the nuisance and/or any administrative penalty imposed pursuant to
this chapter.
(Ord. 960, § 1, 2017; Ord. 1,029, § 2(part), 2021; Ord. 1073, § 3 (part), 2024)
§ 1.06.140 LIEN HEARING.
   At such time as an invoice for abatement costs and/or administrative
penalties due and has not timely been paid:
   (A)   The enforcing officer shall prepare and present a written report of
abatement costs and/or administrative penalties (“report”) to the Board of
Supervisors stating, as applicable:
      (1)   For each abatement carried out, an account of the abatement costs,
including costs of administration; and/or
      (2)   For each accrued administrative penalty, the amount of delinquent
administrative penalty.
   (B)   Upon receipt of the report, the county shall serve a written notice of
a lien hearing regarding the report, along with a copy of the invoice upon the
responsible parties.
   (C)   At the time and date set for the lien hearing, the Board of
Supervisors shall meet to review and consider the report and any protests or
objections to it, and determine whether the amounts owed shall be assessed
against such parcel or otherwise attempted to be collected from the owner(s) of
such parcel.
   (D)   At the conclusion of the lien hearing, the Board of Supervisors may
make such modifications in the report as it deems necessary and thereafter
shall adopt a resolution confirming, modifying, or discharging the lien amount.
As part of the resolution, the Board of Supervisors may order that all or any
part of the cost to abate the nuisance pursuant to this chapter, including the
administrative costs, as confirmed by the Board of Supervisors be placed upon
the county tax roll by the County Auditor as special assessments against the
respective parcels of land, or placed on the unsecured roll, pursuant to Cal.
Gov’t Code § 25845; provided, however, that the abatement costs, including the
cost of administration, as finally determined, shall not be placed on the tax
roll if paid in full prior to entry of said costs on the tax roll.
   (E)   The liens provided herein shall have no force and effect until
recorded with the County Recorder. The county may cause notices of abatement
lien and/or notices of administrative penalty lien to be recorded against the
respective parcels of real property pursuant to Cal. Gov’t Code § 25845. Upon
recordation, the county shall serve, in the manner set forth in §
1.06.090, a copy of the recorded notice(s).
   (F)   Within 30 calendar days following the Board of Supervisors’ adoption
of a resolution imposing a lien, the county will file the judgment lien in the
San Benito County Recorder’s Office.
   (G)   Once recorded, any costs or penalties not specially assessed by the
Board of Supervisors pursuant to this section shall have the same force and
effect and priority of a judgment lien governed by the provisions of Cal. Code
of Civil Procedure § 697.340, and may be extended as provided in Cal. Code of
Civil Procedure §§ 683.110 to 683.220, inclusive.
   (H)   Interest shall accrue on the principal amount of any lien remaining
unsatisfied pursuant to the law applicable to civil money judgments.
   (I)   Once the county receives full payment for outstanding principal,
penalties, and costs, the county will record a notice of satisfaction. A fee
shall be paid by the responsible parties for processing the notice of
satisfaction. This notice of satisfaction will cancel the county’s lien under
this section.
   (J)   The lien may be foreclosed and the real property sold, by the filing
of a complaint for foreclosure in a court of competent jurisdiction, and the
issuance of a judgment to foreclose. There shall be no right to trial by jury.
The county shall be entitled to its attorneys’ fees and costs.
(Ord. 960, § 1, 2017; Ord. 1,029, § 2(part), 2021; Ord. 1073, § 3 (part), 2024)
§ 1.06.150 ALTERNATIVE LIEN HEARING PROCEDURE.
   If a County Hearing Officer has been appointed in accordance with
Ch. 1.07 of this code, the county hearing officer is authorized to conduct the
hearing required under §
1.06.140 and shall prepare a recommended decision and resolution for the Board
of Supervisors pursuant to Cal. Gov’t Code §§ 25845(i) and 27721(b). The
recommended decision and resolution shall include any proposed modifications to
the report. The Hearing Officer shall promptly submit that recommendation and
the administrative record to the county staff, who shall promptly present it to
the Board of Supervisors. The Board of Supervisors may adopt the recommended
decision and resolution without further notice of hearing, or may set the
matter for a de novo hearing before the Board of Supervisors. In the event that
the Board of Supervisors sets the matter for de novo hearing, such hearing
shall be held in accordance with the provisions of §
1.06.140.
(Ord. 960, § 1, 2017; Ord. 1,029, § 2(part), 2021; Ord. 1073, § 3 (part), 2024)
§ 1.06.160 ENFORCEMENT BY CIVIL ACTION.
   As an alternative to any other procedure set forth in this chapter, the
county may abate any nuisance described in this chapter by the prosecution of a
civil action through the Office of the County Counsel, including an action for
injunctive relief. The remedy of injunctive relief may take the form of a court
order, enforceable through civil contempt proceedings, prohibiting the
maintenance of the violation of this chapter or requiring compliance with other
terms. In addition to any other remedy provided by law or equity, the court in
such an action may appoint a receiver for the property upon which the violation
is occurring, pursuant to Cal. Code of Civil Procedure, § 564, who shall be
authorized to take such actions as may be necessary to remedy and remove the
violation.
(Ord. 960, § 1, 2017; Ord. 1,029, § 2(part), 2021; Ord. 1073, § 3 (part), 2024)
§ 1.06.170 REFUSAL TO ISSUE PERMITS.
   (A)   No department, commission or employee of the County of San Benito
vested with the duty or authority to issue or approve permits, licenses or
other entitlements shall do so when there is an outstanding violation,
including, but not limited to, a failure to abate a nuisance as described in
this chapter within 14 calendar days of the date of service of the decision of
the Board of Supervisors requiring abatement, or such other time specified by
the Board of Supervisors, involving the real property to which the pending
application pertains.
   (B)   The authority to deny shall apply whether the applicant was the
occupant or owner of record at the time of such violation or whether the
applicant is either the current occupant or owner of record or a vendor of the
current owner of record pursuant to a contract of sale of the real property,
with or without actual or constructive knowledge of the violation at the time
he or she acquired his or her interest in such real property.
   (C)   Upon recordation of notice of violation or notice to abate, all
departments, commissions, and/or employees shall refuse to issue permits,
licenses, or entitlements involving the premises except those necessary to
abate such violation.
   (D)   Written notice of the refusal to issue identified in §
1.06.080 shall be served upon the applicant in accordance with §
1.06.090.
   (E)   The enforcing officer may waive the provisions of this section
regarding refusal to issue if he or she determines such waiver to be required
to allow necessary or desirable remedial, protective or preventative work.
(Ord. 960, § 1, 2017; Ord. 1,029, § 2(part), 2021; Ord. 1073, § 3 (part), 2024)
§ 1.06.180 TRANSFER OF TITLE, INTEREST, OR POSSESSION.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the owner of any real property to sell,
transfer, mortgage, lease, or otherwise dispose of any real property knowing
there is a notice issued by the enforcing officer in accordance with §
1.06.080 involving that real property until the violations are corrected or
until such owner first furnishes the grantee, transferee, mortgagee, or lessee
with a true copy of any such notice and shall furnish to the enforcing officer
a signed and notarized statement from the grantee, transferee, mortgage, or
lessee acknowledging the receipt of a true copy of such notice and fully
accepting the responsibility without condition for making the corrections or
repairs required by such documents or stating intentions to timely challenge
such notice. Failure to provide notice as required in this section is a
misdemeanor. The transfer of ownership in violation of this section shall not
abrogate the transfer.
   (B)   Upon transfer of any property with a violation on file indicating the
property is unsafe, dangerous or otherwise not habitable, the new owner shall
not occupy or use the property until the enforcing officer expressly authorizes
such occupation or use.
(Ord. 960, § 1, 2017; Ord. 1,029, § 2(part), 2021; Ord. 1073, § 3 (part), 2024)
§ 1.06.190 REMEDIES CUMULATIVE.
   All remedies provided for herein are cumulative and not exclusive, and are
in addition to any other remedy or penalty provided by law.
(Ord. 960, § 1, 2017; Ord. 1,029, § 2(part), 2021; Ord. 1073, § 3 (part), 2024)
§ 1.06.200 SEVERABILITY.
   If any section, subsection, sentence, clause, portion, or phrase of this
chapter is for any reason held illegal, invalid, or unconstitutional by the
decision of any court of competent jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect
the validity of the remaining portions hereof. The Board hereby declares that
it would have passed this chapter and each section, subsection, sentence,
clause, portion, or phrase hereof, irrespective of the fact that any one or
more sections, subsections, sentences, clauses, or phrases be declared illegal,
invalid or unconstitutional.
(Ord. 960, § 1, 2017; Ord. 1,029, § 2(part), 2021; Ord. 1073, § 3 (part), 2024)
CHAPTER 1.07: OFFICE OF THE COUNTY HEARING OFFICER
Section
   
1.07.010   Purpose, effect, authority, and policy
   
1.07.020   Definitions
   
1.07.030   Powers and duties of hearing officer
   
1.07.040   General authority of hearing officer
   
1.07.050   Qualifications of hearing officer; disqualification
   
1.07.060   Independent authority
   
1.07.070   Conduct of witnesses
   
1.07.080   Recording
   
1.07.090   Administrative record
   
1.07.100   Applicability to local entities
   
1.07.110   Effect on existing law
§ 1.07.010 PURPOSE, EFFECT, AUTHORITY, AND POLICY.
   (A)   It is the intent of the Board of Supervisors of the County of San
Benito in adopting this chapter to establish the Office of the county hearing
officer pursuant to Cal. Gov’t Code § 27720, Title 3, Div. 2, Part 3, Ch. 14
for the purpose of adjudicating enforcement actions, to which office the Board
of Supervisors shall appoint one or more Hearing Officers.
   (B)   Pursuant to the authority granted by Cal. Gov’t Code §§ 27720 et seq.,
the Board of Supervisors does enact this chapter.
(Ord. 961, § 1, 2017)
§ 1.07.020 DEFINITIONS.
   The following definitions shall apply to this chapter as written unless
context indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COUNTY. The County of San Benito
   COUNTY DEPARTMENT. The County of San Benito or any department, agency,
board, commission, or committee thereof, including any local public entity
which contracts with the county pursuant to §
1.07.030.
   COUNTY HEARING OFFICER. A person designated by the Board of Supervisors and
appointed to the position of hearing officer, and who is independently
authorized to conduct administrative hearings and issue recommended decisions
pursuant to and as authorized by the this chapter.
   ENFORCING OFFICER OF CODE ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. The San Benito County
Resources Management Agency Director, Building Official, Building Inspector,
Cannabis Coordinator, Health Officer, Sheriff, Agricultural Commissioner, Fire
Chief, or their authorized deputies or designee(s), and any person employed by
the County of San Benito and appointed to the position of code enforcement
officer, as established by San Benito County Resolution Number No. 90-27 and
Ordinances 567 and 625, each of whom is independently authorized to enforce
this chapter.
(Ord. 961, § 1, 2017)
§ 1.07.030 POWERS AND DUTIES OF HEARING OFFICER.
   (A)   A county hearing officer shall have those powers set forth in Cal.
Gov’t Code §§ 27721 and 27722, including the power to conduct the hearing, the
power to decide the matter under this section upon which a hearing has been
held, the power to make findings of fact and conclusions of law required for
the decision, the power to issue subpoenas at the request of a party of
interest, the power to receive evidence, the power to administer oaths, the
power to rule on questions of law and the admissibility of evidence, the power
to continue the hearing from time to time, and the power to prepare a record of
the proceedings.
   (B)   The county hearing officer is authorized to:
      (1)   Conduct hearings specified in §
1.07.040;
      (2)   Issue subpoenas; receive evidence; administer oaths; rule on
questions of law and the admissibility of evidence;
      (3)   Grant continuances based on good cause shown by one of the parties
to the hearing or upon his or her own independent determination that due
process has not been adequately afforded to a party;
      (4)   Exercise continuing jurisdiction over the subject matter of an
administrative enforcement hearing for the purposes of granting a continuance;
      (5)   Make findings of fact and legal conclusions;
      (6)   Rule upon the merits of an administrative enforcement hearing or an
administrative appeal hearing upon consideration of the evidence submitted and
prepare and issue a written recommended decision and order, including, but not
limited to:
         (a)   Orders that are necessary to remedy any violations identified in
a notice issued in accordance with this code including authorizing the
enforcing official to summarily abate the violation and/or impose conditions
for the continued use of the subject property or activity;
         (b)   Impose, modify, or deny administrative penalties. In those cases
where the administrative penalty is not fixed, but is subject to a range as
otherwise established by this code, the hearing officer may set, increase, or
decrease, according to proof, the amount of administrative penalty or the daily
rate of such administrative penalty;
         (c)   Determine the date upon which the accrual of administrative
penalties shall begin; and, where the corrections are subsequently completed to
the county's satisfaction, the date upon which the accrual of administrative
penalties shall end. If the violations have not been so corrected, the daily
accrual of the administrative penalties accrued shall continue until the
violations are corrected or the legal maximum limit is reached;
         (d)   Determine amounts and order payment of abatement costs and/or
administrative penalties;
         (e)   Imposition of a lien, special assessment, special collection, or
other collection process against a responsible person and any affected
property, as appropriate after hearing for objections to the filing of liens or
special assessments on real property; and
         (f)   Deferral of the effective date of orders of abatement in cases
of extreme hardship to owner-occupants or tenants of dwellings; and
      (7)   Prepare a record of the proceedings.
(Ord. 961, § 1, 2017)
§ 1.07.040 GENERAL AUTHORITY OF HEARING OFFICER.
   The Board of Supervisors may, in its discretion, appoint a county hearing
officer, and a County Department may, in its discretion and with the approval
of the Board of Supervisors, direct such an officer to conduct the following:
   (A)   Permit denial, revocation and suspension hearings;
   (B)   Any other proceeding when a state law or local ordinance provides that
a hearing be held and that findings of fact or conclusions of law be made by
any agency;
   (C)   Administrative enforcement hearings pursuant to Chapters
1.06,
7.02, and
11.15 of the San Benito County Code;
   (D)   Administrative appeals regarding a grant or denial of a waiver request
submitted pursuant to Chapter
7.02 or
11.15 of the San Benito County Code;
   (E)   Administrative appeals from any person aggrieved by issuance of a
permit the Cannabis Coordinator under Ch.
7.02 of the San Benito County Code;
   (F)   Administrative appeals from the property owner on whether violations
of this code exist on such property where the responsible enforcing officer
issued a Refusal to Issue or where an NOV was recorded with the County Recorder
in accordance with
Ch. 1.06 of this code;
   (G)   Administrative appeals regarding summary abatement proceedings
pursuant to
Ch. 1.06 of this code;
   (H)   Lien hearings pursuant to Chapters
1.06 and
11.15 of the San Benito County Code.
   (I)   In addition, the Board of Supervisors authorizes the county hearing
officer to conduct hearings on requests for extended amortization pursuant to
Ord. 949, the urgency marijuana cultivation ordinance. Any such hearings shall
be conducted as a noticed public hearing and subject to the same mailed notice
requirements as required by Ord. 949. The hearing officer shall be required to
make the same findings as required for approval as would the Board of
Supervisors, specifically, that that there is sufficient evidence in the record
to determine that approving or conditionally approving the application is
required in order to avoid an unconstitutional taking of property, or that the
applicant has shown that three month amortization period is not a reasonable
amortization period pursuant to state law. The decision of the county hearing
officer shall be final and conclusive. Once directed to conduct any of the
above-referenced hearings, a county hearing officer is authorized to issue
subpoenas, to receive evidence, to administer oaths, to rule on questions of
law and the admissibility of evidence and to prepare a record of the
proceedings as specified more particularly herein. An agency may, but need not
be, present during any hearing.
(Ord. 961, § 1, 2017)
§ 1.07.050 QUALIFICATIONS OF HEARING OFFICER; DISQUALIFICATION.
   (A)   Qualification. The Board of Supervisors shall appoint one or more
persons to the position of hearing officer based on the following
qualifications:
      (1)   Each such hearing officer shall be an attorney at law having been
admitted to practice before the courts of this state for at least five years
prior to appointment.
      (2)   Hearing examiners shall be appointed for a period of not less than
one year. In the event that the Board of Supervisors appoints more than one
hearing examiner, each day of hearings required under this section shall be
assigned to a hearing examiner based upon an alphabetical rotation.
   (B)   Disqualification. Any person appointed to serve as a hearing officer
is subject to disqualification for bias, prejudice, interest, or for other
reason for which a judge may be disqualified in a court of law. Rules and
procedures for the disqualification of a hearing officer based upon a showing
of actual bias, prejudice, interest, or other reason shall be promulgated by
the County Administrative Officer.
(Ord. 961, § 1, 2017)
§ 1.07.060 INDEPENDENT AUTHORITY.
   The employment, performance evaluation, compensation and benefits of the
county hearing officer shall not be directly or indirectly conditioned upon the
finding of nuisance, the amount of the administrative penalties imposed or
assessed by the hearing officer, and/or the volume of nuisances ordered abated.
(Ord. 961, § 1, 2017)
§ 1.07.070 CONDUCT OF WITNESSES.
   If, during the hearing, any person disobeys or resists any lawful order,
refuses to respond to a subpoena, refuses to take the oath or affirmation as a
witness, thereafter refuses to be examined, engages in misconduct, or obstructs
the proceeding, a county hearing officer shall certify the facts to the
superior court of the county to initiate proceedings pursuant to Cal. Gov’t
Code §§ 25173 through 25175.
(Ord. 961, § 1, 2017)
§ 1.07.080 RECORDING.
   (A)   A hearing officer shall record the hearing with an electronic
recording device. Any party may at his or her own expense provide for the
taking of the testimony by a qualified stenographic reporter.
   (B)   Upon payment of the requisite fees to an agency, that agency shall
prepare a duplicate recording or a duplicate tape of the proceedings, a copy of
any documentary evidence admitted at the hearing and any pleading, notice,
order, recommended decision, final decision or other paper relating to the
case.
(Ord. 961, § 1, 2017)
§ 1.07.090 ADMINISTRATIVE RECORD.
   (A)   Upon conclusion of an administrative hearing in which evidence is
received, the county hearing officer shall prepare the administrative record,
including:
      (1)   A record of the hearing, including all documentary evidence and
either a transcript of oral testimony or a summary of oral testimony;
      (2)   Decision, including any findings of fact and conclusions of law
(“decision”).
   (B)   If the county hearing officer has been authorized to decide the matter
upon which a hearing was held, the administrative record shall be submitted the
Clerk of the Board of Supervisors. Such decision and order shall be final and
conclusive.
   (C)   If the county hearing officer has not been authorized to decide the
matter upon which a hearing was held, the county hearing officer shall, for the
Board of Supervisors’ consideration, submit the original copies of the
administrative record in the form of a recommendation to the Clerk of the Board
of Supervisors, and shall also serve a copy of the recommendation upon all
parties. If any party is represented by an attorney, the attorney shall be
served.
(Ord. 961, § 1, 2017)
§ 1.07.100 APPLICABILITY TO LOCAL ENTITIES.
   Any local public entity within the county may contract with the county to
employ the services of a county hearing officer. The duties and
responsibilities of a county hearing officer described in Cal. Gov’t Code §§
27721 and 27722 shall be set forth in the contract. Reimbursement to the county
shall, unless otherwise specified in the contract, be made on a pro rata basis
of actual cost to the county in providing the service, including salaries,
benefits, overhead and any travel expense. An agency contracting with the
county under this section is authorized to conduct its hearings in accordance
with this chapter. If an agency has adopted its own rules of procedure,
however, such rules may instead be followed.
(Ord. 961, § 1, 2017)
§ 1.07.110 EFFECT ON EXISTING LAW.
   The provisions of this chapter constitute an alternative to, and do not
supersede, any other provision of law specifying that any matter may be heard
or determined by a hearing officer.
(Ord. 961, § 1, 2017)
TITLE 3: ADMINISTRATION AND PERSONNEL
   Chapter
      
3.01.   ADMINISTRATION GENERALLY
      
3.03.   PERSONNEL
      
3.05.   COUNTY ORGANIZATIONS
      
3.07.   PUBLIC SAFETY DISPATCHER SELECTION AND TRAINING STANDARDS
CHAPTER 3.01: ADMINISTRATION GENERALLY
Section
Article I. In General
   
3.01.001   Meetings of Board of Supervisors; time and place
   
3.01.002   Consolidation of offices; Sheriff and Coroner; separation of Tax
Collector
   
3.01.003   Consolidation of offices; Clerk and Recorder; separation and
consolidation of the offices of Auditor and Controller
   
3.01.004   Same; Tax Collector, Treasurer and Public Administrator
   
3.01.005   Office hours for county offices; transaction of county business
   
3.01.006   Recruitment and training of law enforcement officers; desire to
receive state aid
   
3.01.007   Same; adherence to state standards; Cal. Penal Code § 13522
   
3.01.008   Same; same; Cal. Penal Code § 6040
   
3.01.009   Law libraries
   
3.01.010   Offices of Agricultural Commissioner and Sealer of Weights and
Measures; fees for services
   
3.01.011   Fees for jurors; mileage
   
3.01.012   Fees for grand jurors; mileage
Article II. County Surveyor
   
3.01.025   Office to be appointive
   
3.01.026   Appointment
   
3.01.027   Office of County Surveyor
Article IIA. County Director of Transportation
   
3.01.030   County Director of Transportation
   
3.01.031   Transfer of all duties of Road Commissioner to County Director of
Transportation and elimination of the Office of County Road Commissioner
Article III. Supervisorial Districts
   
3.01.040   Boundaries
Article IIIA. Board of Supervisors Term Limits
   
3.01.050   Term limits
Article IV. Judicial District
   
3.01.060   Consolidation of San Juan Bautista and Hollister Districts
   
3.01.061   San Benito County Judicial District; designation; boundaries
   
3.01.062   Same; sessions
   
3.01.063   Effective date of consolidation
Article V. Work Furlough Program
   
3.01.075   Cal. Penal Code § 1208 declared feasible
   
3.01.076   Work Furlough Administrator designated
   
3.01.077   Transfer of inmates; Cal. Penal Code § 1208.5
   
3.01.078   Work Furlough Administrator; fee schedule
Article VI. County Administrative Officer
   
3.01.090   Created
   
3.01.091   Qualifications
Article VII. Treasurer-Tax Collector, Public Administrator
   
3.01.105   Qualifications for office
Article VIII. Clerk-Auditor-Recorder
   
3.01.120   Qualifications for office
   
3.01.121   Approval of claims
   
3.01.122   Additional procedures
   
3.01.123   Claims against the county
Article IX. Clerk to the Board of Supervisors
   
3.01.140   Position of appointed Clerk to the Board of Supervisors created
   
3.01.141   Duties and powers
Article X. Resource Management Agency
   
3.01.145   Resource Management Agency created
   
3.01.146   Definitions
Article XI. Lobbying
   
3.01.150   Purpose
   
3.01.151   Definitions
   
3.01.152   Registration and disclosure requirements
   
3.01.153   Exemption
   
3.01.154   Prohibitions
   
3.01.155   Penalties
   
3.01.156   Enforcement
Cross-reference:
   Buildings Appeals Board, see §§
21.01.045 to
21.01.047 of this code
   County Organizations, see
Chapter 3.05 of this code
   Disaster Council, see §§
11.01.003,
11.01.004 of this code
   Director of Emergency Services, see §
11.01.005 of this code
   Emergency Organization, see §
11.01.006 of this code
   Oil and Gas Well Inspectors, see §§
19.21.002 to
19.21.005 of this code
   Personnel regulations, see
Chapter 3.03 of this code
   Purchases of supplies, equipment and contractual services, see
Chapter 5.09 of this code
Statutory reference:
   Authority of county to consolidate certain offices, see Cal. Gov’t Code §§
24300 to 24304
ARTICLE I. IN GENERAL
§ 3.01.001 MEETINGS OF BOARD OF SUPERVISORS; TIME AND PLACE.
   (A)   Regular meetings of the Board of Supervisors shall be held at the
county seat of the county, in the Board of Supervisors' Chambers located at 481
Fourth Street, Hollister at the hour of 9:00 a.m.
   (B)   The dates of all regular meetings during each calendar year shall be
established by resolution adopted by the Board of Supervisors prior to January
1st of the year for which the meetings are being scheduled or within 30 days of
the effective date of this section. The resolution adopting the Board of
Supervisors' regular meeting schedule may thereafter be amended by a resolution
of the Board of Supervisors as deemed necessary.
   (C)   Regular meetings scheduled by the Board of Supervisors may be
rescheduled or cancelled by the Board of Supervisors by an adopted motion or by
resolution. In those cases where time does not permit the cancellation request
to come before the Board of Supervisors at a regularly scheduled meeting, the
Chair, or Vice-Chair in the Chair's absence, may cancel or reschedule a regular
meeting by notice to the Clerk of the Board.
   (D)   Notice of any cancellation shall be posted no later than the time
scheduled for the start of the meeting cancelled.
   (E)   The location of the Board meeting may be changed by the Board of
Supervisors, by adopted motion or resolution, or by the Chair, or Vice-Chair in
the Chair's absence; provided, however, that if the location is changed to a
location within the county other than the county seat both of the following
shall occur:
      (1)   The change of location of the regular meeting of the Board shall be
adopted by ordinance, resolution, bylaw, or other rule required for the conduct
of business by the Board of Supervisors at a regular meeting of the body.
      (2)   Notice of the location change shall be posted in a location that is
freely accessible to the public no later than the prior regular meeting of the
Board.
(1966 Code, § 2-1) (Ord. 243, § 1; Ord. 551, § 1; Ord. 560, § 1; Ord. 686, § 1;
Ord. 723, § 1; Ord. 827, § 1; Ord. 870, § 1, 2011)
§ 3.01.002 CONSOLIDATION OF OFFICES; SHERIFF AND CORONER; SEPARATION OF TAX
COLLECTOR.
   (A)   The Office of Tax Collector is separated from the Offices of Sheriff
and Coroner.
   (B)   The Offices of Sheriff and Coroner are consolidated and the person
elected to the Office of Sheriff of the county shall be ex Officio Coroner of
the county and the person shall perform the duties of each of the offices of
the Sheriff and Coroner of the county as required by law.
(1966 Code, § 2-2) (Ord. 8, § 1; Ord. 253, § 2; Ord. 353, § 1)
§ 3.01.003 CONSOLIDATION OF OFFICES; CLERK AND RECORDER; SEPARATION AND
CONSOLIDATION OF THE OFFICES OF AUDITOR AND CONTROLLER.
   (A)   The Offices of Clerk and County Recorder are consolidated.
   (B)   The Office of Auditor is consolidated with the Office of Controller
and are separated from the Offices of County Clerk and Recorder
   (C)   The person elected to the office of each shall perform the duties of
the office.
(1966 Code, § 2-3) (Ord. 8, § 2; Ord. 1031, § 2, 2021)
§ 3.01.004 SAME; TAX COLLECTOR, TREASURER AND PUBLIC ADMINISTRATOR.
   The Offices of Tax Collector, Treasurer and Public Administrator are
consolidated and the person elected to the Office of Tax Collector shall be ex
Officio Treasurer and Public Administrator of the county and the person shall
perform the duties of each of the Offices of Tax Collector, Treasurer and
Public Administrator of the county as required by law.
(1966 Code, § 2-4) (Ord. 253, § 3; Ord. 353, § 1)
§ 3.01.005 OFFICE HOURS FOR COUNTY OFFICES; TRANSACTION OF COUNTY BUSINESS.
   (A)   Office hours and days of operation for county offices for the
transaction of business shall be fixed by resolution of the Board of
Supervisors.
   (B)   For the purposes of this section, the term TRANSACTION OF BUSINESS
means that during the hours named there shall be present in such offices at
least one person qualified and prepared to transact the business that properly
comes into the offices.
   (C)   If any official has no regularly appointed deputy paid by the county,
at the same time and in the same manner as the principal, he or she may close
his or her office during the hours between 12:00 noon and 1:00 p.m.
   (D)   Nothing in this section shall prevent, relieve or otherwise excuse any
county officer or employee from the rendition of service at such times as are
necessary in order to properly perform the functions of his or her office or
employment.
(1966 Code, § 2-5) (Ord. 170, §§1 to 4; Ord. 352; Ord. 835, § 2)
Statutory reference:
   Authority of Board of Supervisors to designate office hours, see Cal. Gov’t
Code § 24260
   County offices and office hours, see Cal. Gov’t Code §§ 24250 to 24262
§ 3.01.006 RECRUITMENT AND TRAINING OF LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICERS; DESIRE TO
RECEIVE STATE AID.
   The county declares that it desires to qualify to receive aid from the state
under the provisions of Cal. Penal Code Chapter 1, Title 4, Part 4, commencing
with § 13500.
(1966 Code, § 2-6) (Ord. 232, § 1)
§ 3.01.007 SAME; ADHERENCE TO STATE STANDARDS; CAL. PENAL CODE § 13522.
   Pursuant to Cal. Penal Code § 13522, the county while receiving aid from the
state pursuant to Cal. Penal Code Chapter 1, Title 4, Part 4, will adhere to
the standards for recruitment and training established by the California
Commission on Peace Officer Standards and Training.
(1966 Code, § 2-7) (Ord. 232, § 2)
§ 3.01.008 SAME; SAME; CAL. PENAL CODE § 6040.
   While receiving any state aid pursuant to Cal. Penal Code Article 3, Chapter
5, Title 7, Part 3, commencing with § 6040, the County of San Benito will
adhere to the standards for recruitment and training established by the Board
of Corrections.
(1966 Code, § 2-7.1) (Ord. 443, § 1)
§ 3.01.009 LAW LIBRARIES.
   The provisions of Cal. Business and Professions Code §§ 6300 et seq.
relating to law libraries are hereby made applicable to San Benito County.
(1966 Code, § 2-8) (Ord. 1)
Statutory reference:
   Authority of county to provide for the applications of Cal. Business and
Professions Code §§ 6300 to 6365 to the county, see Cal. Business and
Professions Code § 6364
§ 3.01.010 OFFICES OF AGRICULTURAL COMMISSIONER AND SEALER OF WEIGHTS AND
MEASURES; FEES FOR SERVICES.
   (A)   Fees. Except where prohibited by law and as specified in division (B)
of this section, the Office of the Agricultural Commissioner and Office of the
Sealer of Weights and Measures (Agricultural Commissioner/Sealer) shall charge
a fee for the following services rendered by the Agricultural Commissioner/
Sealer:
      (1)   Issuance of quarantine, seed samples, certified producer and
farmer’s market certificates and similar activities;
      (2)   Registration of licensed pesticide users and farm labor
contractors;
      (3)   Annual commercial weighing and measuring device registration;
      (4)   Non-commercial and commercial weighing and measuring device
testing-owner/user registration;
      (5)   Activities of a specialized nature and/or services provided by
employees of the Agricultural Commissioner or Sealer of Weights and Measures
outside their normal working hours;
      (6)   Annual utility meter inspection at mobile home parks, recreational
vehicle parks and apartment complexes and registration at locations where
utilities are submetered;
      (7)   Rodenticide/other pesticides sold at actual cost per formula in
master schedule;
      (8)   Fees charged for copies of releasable information;
      (9)   Registration and inspection of automated point-of-sale stations
(scanners); and
      (10)   Other activities for which the law authorizes costs to be
recovered.
   (B)   Board authorization. The Board of Supervisors may set a fee, by
resolution from time to time, for activities specified in division (A) of this
section. The Board shall specify in the resolution the particular services for
which a fee may be levied. The Board shall also, in the resolution, identify
the amount of the costs that shall be charged.
   (C)   Basis for fees. The fee shall be based on the approximate cost of
rendering the service. The fee may include, without limitation, an approximate
allocation of overhead and the reimbursement for actual expenses incurred by
the Agricultural Commissioner/Sealer. The fee shall be paid by the person
requesting the service or by that person’s successor in interest. The person
owing the obligation shall be known as the “debtor”. The obligation to pay the
fee and any other concomitant charges shall be referred to as the “debt”.
   (D)   Payment due; consequences for failure to pay. The fee for services
rendered shall be due and payable at the time the services are rendered. If the
fees are not paid within 30 days, the account shall be considered in arrears.
If an account is in arrears, the Agricultural Commissioner/Sealer shall charge
the debtor interest at the legal rate. If any action is required to collect any
fee in arrears, the county shall be entitled to the reasonable costs of
collection of the debt owed. These costs include, without limitation, court
costs and the reasonable value of legal services rendered, until such time that
the debt has been paid.
   (E)   Definitions; interpretations. Unless this section specifies otherwise,
or unless the context requires otherwise, this section shall be interpreted as
consistent with the Food and Agriculture Code and the Business and Professions
Code in so far as both the codes relate to the functions of the Agricultural
Commissioner/Sealer. The interpretation of this section as consistent the state
codes includes, without limitation, resort to the state statutes for
definitions of key terms used herein.
(1966 Code, § 2-8.1) (Ord. 544, § A; Ord. 777, § 2)
§ 3.01.011 FEES FOR JURORS; MILEAGE.
   (A)   The fee for jurors in the superior court, in civil and criminal cases,
shall be $15 a day for each day’s attendance as a juror after the first day
unless otherwise provided by statute. All jurors in the superior court, in
civil and criminal cases, shall be reimbursed for mileage at the rate of $0.34
per mile for each mile actually traveled in attending court as a juror after
the first day, in going only unless otherwise provided by statute.
   (B)   A juror who is employed by a federal, state or local government
entity, or by any other public entity as defined in Cal. Code of Civil
Procedure § 481.200, and who receives regular compensation and benefits whole
performing jury service, may not be paid the fees or travel reimbursement
described in subdivision (A)
(1966 Code, § 2-8.2) (Ord. 620, § 2)
Statutory reference:
   Attendance fees for jurors and mileage reimbursement shall be as set forth
in Cal. Code of Civil Procedure § 215 and any other applicable state law.
§ 3.01.012 FEES FOR GRAND JURORS; MILEAGE.
   (A)   The fee/compensation for grand jurors shall be $15 a day for each
day’s attendance as a grand juror, or at such increased rate as state law may
hereinafter establish, not to exceed one per diem fee per day and a maximum of
eight per month.
      (1)   To receive reimbursement, the meeting, event, training, and/or
investigation must be a minimum of two hours exceptions may be approved by the
majority of the Grand Jury. Non-specific general interest attendances at county
or city agency meetings are not reimbursable.
      (2)   Members of the Grand Jury shall be reimbursed for actual and
necessary mileage driven in their private vehicles to and from attendance at
any committee meeting of the Grand Jury; facility; or authorized interviews
with witnesses in connection with approved Grand Jury investigations.
      (3)   The rates applicable to the county employees under the county’s
travel and reimbursement policies, apply to the Grand Jury. Grand Jury members
are encouraged to carpool when possible.
      (4)   Members of the Grand Jury shall be reimbursed for actual travel
expenses incurred for out-of-county travel to attend grand juror training, upon
advance authorization of the majority of the Grand Jury, and if sufficient
funds are available in the Grand Jury’s budget.
   (B)   Members of the Grand Jury shall be reimbursed for actual travel
expenses incurred for out-of-county travel to attend grand juror training, upon
advance authorization of the foreperson and the County Administrative Officer,
and not to exceed the amount budgeted for training in the Grand Jury’s annual
budget.
   (C)   Any reimbursement allowed pursuant to this section shall be made upon
those conditions and at those rates applicable to the county employees under
the county’s travel and reimbursement policies, and shall be charged against
the current operating budget for the Grand Jury. Grand Jury members are
encouraged to carpool when possible.
(Ord. 889, § 1; Ord. 934, § 1, 2015; Ord. 987, § 1, 2019)
ARTICLE II. COUNTY SURVEYOR
§ 3.01.025 OFFICE TO BE APPOINTIVE.
   The Office of the County Surveyor is appointive. The election laws of the
State of California shall not be applicable to the County Surveyor.
(1966 Code, § 2-9) (Ord. 206, §§ 1, 2; Ord. 729, § 1(part))
Statutory reference:
   County surveyor generally, see Cal. Gov’t Code §§ 27550 et seq.
§ 3.01.026 APPOINTMENT.
   The Board of Supervisors shall appoint the County Surveyor to serve at the
will of the Board.
(1966 Code, § 2-10) (Ord. 206, § 3; Ord. 729, § 1(part))
§ 3.01.027 OFFICE OF COUNTY SURVEYOR.
   The County Surveyor shall be the ex officio division head of the county’s
Surveyor and Engineering Division of the Public Works Department. The County
Surveyor shall act under the authority and under the general supervision of the
Public Works Administrator.
(1966 Code, § 2-11) (Ord. 206, § 4; Ord. 729, § 1(part))
ARTICLE IIA. COUNTY DIRECTOR OF TRANSPORTATION
§ 3.01.030 COUNTY DIRECTOR OF TRANSPORTATION.
   There is established in the county the position known as the County Director
of Transportation. The County Director of Transportation shall serve at the
pleasure of the Board under the supervision of the County’s Administrative
Officer. The Director of Transportation shall be responsible for general
supervision of the functions of County Surveyor, and shall be responsible for
the following functions:
   (A)   All duties which were, or may hereafter be established for the former
position of Road Commissioner as prescribed in the Streets and Highways Code or
other state laws;
   (B)   General supervision of the duties of surveyor as prescribed in Cal.
Gov’t Code §§ 27550 et seq.;
   (C)   All duties of the County Director of Transportation pursuant to Cal.
Gov’t Code §§ 65084 and 65085.
(Ord. 947, § 1(part), 2016)
§ 3.01.031 TRANSFER OF ALL DUTIES OF ROAD COMMISSIONER TO COUNTY DIRECTOR OF
TRANSPORTATION AND ELIMINATION OF THE OFFICE OF COUNTY ROAD COMMISSIONER.
   Pursuant to Cal. Streets and Highways Code § 2006.1, all duties of the
County Road Commissioner are transferred to the County Director of
Transportation. The Office of County Road Commissioner of San Benito County is
abolished. Any civil engineering functions which are required to be performed
by the Road Commissioner shall be performed by a registered civil engineer
acting under the authority of the Director of Transportation. The Director of
Transportation shall not be required to have any special permit, registration,
or license. All sections of the San Benito County Code which refer to “Road
Commissioner” shall now be interpreted to refer to the County Director of
Transportation. These sections shall include, but not be limited to: §§
7.05.016,
7.05.017,
7.05.018,
7.05.019,
7.05.020,
7.05.023,
17.01.002,
17.01.006,
19.27.004,
19.27.005,
19.27.010, and
21.01.093.
(Ord. 947, § 1(part), 2016)
ARTICLE III. SUPERVISORIAL DISTRICTS
§ 3.01.040 BOUNDARIES.
   (A)   The provisions of this article are adopted pursuant to Cal. Elections
Code Chapter 6 of Division 21, commencing with § 21500, for the purpose of
establishing the boundaries of the Supervisorial Districts of the county.
   (B)   The boundaries of the Supervisorial Districts in the county shall be
established by a resolution of the Board of Supervisors following each
decennial census in accordance with state law and shall be published on the
county website.
(1966 Code, § 2-28) (Ord. 605, § 1(part); Ord. 747 § 1(part); Ord. 881, § 1
(part); Ord. 1039, § 1, 2021)
ARTICLE IIIA. BOARD OF SUPERVISORS TERM LIMITS
§ 3.01.050 TERM LIMITS.
   (A)   No person shall serve more than three terms as a member of the San
Benito County Board of Supervisors. This provision shall apply prospectively
only, so that any supervisor commencing a term of office on or after January 1,
2023, may serve up to three terms from and after that date.
   (B)   Notwithstanding division (A), any candidate who has served, or is
currently serving a term as a member of the San Benito County Board of
Supervisors shall serve no more than two additional terms as a member of the
San Benito County Board of Supervisors. This provision shall apply
prospectively only, so that any Supervisor described by this division,
commencing a term of office on or after January 1, 2023, may serve up to two
terms from and after that date.
   (C)   Any person who, whether by appointment or election, serves a partial
term of the office of Supervisor of 365 or more days shall be deemed, for the
purpose of this section, to have served a full four-year term.
(Ord. 1,024, § 2)
ARTICLE IV. JUDICIAL DISTRICT
§ 3.01.060 CONSOLIDATION OF SAN JUAN BAUTISTA AND HOLLISTER DISTRICTS.
   The San Juan Bautista Judicial District and Hollister Judicial District are
hereby consolidated.
(1966 Code, § 2-34) (Ord. 367, § 1)
§ 3.01.061 SAN BENITO COUNTY JUDICIAL DISTRICT; DESIGNATION; BOUNDARIES.
   The Judicial District created by the consolidation shall be designated as
the San Benito County Judicial District, the boundaries of which shall be
coterminous with the boundaries of the County of San Benito, State of
California.
(1966 Code, § 2-35) (Ord. 367, § 2)
§ 3.01.062 SAME; SESSIONS.
   Sessions of the San Benito County Judicial District shall be held in the
City of Hollister.
(1966 Code, § 2-36) (Ord. 368, § 1; Ord. 430)
§ 3.01.063 EFFECTIVE DATE OF CONSOLIDATION.
   The provisions of this article shall become operative on the first Monday of
January, 1977.
(1966 Code, § 2-37) (Ord. 367, § 4)
ARTICLE V. WORK FURLOUGH PROGRAM
§ 3.01.075 CAL. PENAL CODE § 1208 DECLARED FEASIBLE.
   The Board of Supervisors of the county finds, on the basis of employment
conditions, education conditions, the state of the county’s facilities and
other pertinent circumstances, that the operation of Cal. Penal Code § 1208,
insofar as it relates to employment and education, is feasible in the county.
(1966 Code, § 2-48) (Ord. 510, § 1)
§ 3.01.076 WORK FURLOUGH ADMINISTRATOR DESIGNATED.
   The Sheriff of the county is designated as the officer who shall perform the
functions of Work Furlough Administrator.
(1966 Code, § 2-49) (Ord. 510, § 2)
§ 3.01.077 TRANSFER OF INMATES; CAL. PENAL CODE § 1208.5.
   Pursuant to Cal. Penal Code § 1208.5, the Board of Supervisors of the county
delegates to the Work Furlough Administrator of the county the authority to
enter into agreements to transfer prisoners assigned to a work furlough program
and from San Benito County and other counties that maintain work furlough
programs; provided, however, that when receiving an inmate from another county,
the Work Furlough Administrator shall not accept the inmate if the county must
incur other than the normal booking cost when receiving the inmate; and,
provided further, that when transferring an inmate to another county, the
county shall not transfer an inmate to a county that requires, as a
prerequisite to participating in the program, payment to the county of a sum in
excess of the current daily expense rate applied by the federal government to
federal inmates incarcerated in the county.
(1966 Code, § 2-50) (Ord. 510, § 3)
§ 3.01.078 WORK FURLOUGH ADMINISTRATOR; FEE SCHEDULE.
   The Work Furlough Administrator is authorized to set up a fee schedule of
charges to be charged to inmates in the work furlough program. This fee
schedule shall be based on an administrative fee and actual costs of operating
the program. The costs will be charged on a per-day basis and may be amended by
resolution of the Board of Supervisors. The cost is set at $6 per day.
(1966 Code, § 2-51) (Ord. 510, § 4)
ARTICLE VI. COUNTY ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER
§ 3.01.090 CREATED.
   (A)   The Board of Supervisors of the county creates the position of
county’s Administrative Officer, who shall be qualified and perform in
accordance with the terms of this section and §
3.01.091. The county’s Administrative Officer shall be recognized and function
as the chief administrative officer. He or she shall generally advise, assist
and act as agent for the Board of Supervisors, and be responsible to the Board
for the proper and efficient administration of such affairs of the county that
are placed in his or her charge by the Board, and shall enforce ordinances,
orders and regulations as directed by the Board.
   (B)   The county’s Administrative Officer shall be appointed by, and serve
at the pleasure of, the Board of Supervisors. Salary and benefits shall be
reviewed and established annually by the Board, based upon performance
evaluation and other criteria.
(1966 Code, § 2-52) (Ord. 513, § 1)
§ 3.01.091 QUALIFICATIONS.
   (A)   The county’s Administrative Officer shall be directly responsible to
the Board for projects that will increase efficiency, improve services and be
more cost effective, and may include, but not be limited to, the review and
evaluation of programs, policies, procedures and organizational structure.
Successful performance requires knowledge and applied skills in public
administration, such as, the ability of the county’s Administrative Officer to
maintain close and effective relationships with the Board and department heads;
to relate well to management, employees at all levels and the public; possess
strong oral and written communication skills; and have good judgment and
integrity.
   (B)   The county’s Administrative Officer shall be a person having
demonstrated administrative and executive ability, in public or private
employment, in a responsible or executive position requiring the planning and
execution of work programs or administrative operations, the budgeting and
control of expenditures and the coordination of varied activities.
   (C)   He or she shall have a knowledge of public administration; effective
techniques for budgeting, personnel, finance and organization; and the
characteristics of a staff role with the legislative, administrative and
executive responsibilities of a Board of Supervisors. In general, he or she
shall have the ability to satisfy the definition of the position, its
distinguishing characteristics and its duties and responsibilities, which are
described in this specification.
   (D)   He or she shall have college or university training in public or
business administration or related field with a baccalaureate degree and,
preferably, a master’s degree. However, under special circumstances,
governmental administrative experience may be considered qualifying for
appointment with a requirement for the appointee to continue college/university
training to completion of a degree.
(1966 Code, § 2-53) (Ord. 513, § 2; Ord. 920, § 1, 2013)
ARTICLE VII. TREASURER-TAX COLLECTOR, PUBLIC ADMINISTRATOR
§ 3.01.105 QUALIFICATIONS FOR OFFICE.
   (A)   Qualifications for holding the Office of San Benito County Treasurer-
Tax Collector, Public Administrator, or for election or appointment to such
office, shall be those provided for in Cal. Gov’t Code §§ 27000.7, 27000.8 and
27000.9, as existing or hereafter amended, and until those sections are
repealed. The qualifications prescribe levels of experience, education and
continuing education relating to treasury management and public finance.
   (B)   All persons desiring to become a candidate for the position of the San
Benito County Treasurer-Tax Collector, Public Administrator shall provide to
the County Clerk, at the time of filing for the position, or prior to an
appointment by the Board of Supervisors to this position, a written statement
declaring the manner under which he or she qualifies for the position.
(1966 Code, § 2-63) (Ord. 678, § 1)
ARTICLE VIII. CLERK-AUDITOR-RECORDER
§ 3.01.120 QUALIFICATIONS FOR OFFICE.
   (A)   Qualifications for holding the Office of San Benito County Clerk-
Auditor-Recorder, or for election or appointment to the office, shall be those
provided for in Cal. Gov’t Code § 26945, as existing or hereafter amended, and
until this section is repealed. The qualifications prescribe levels of
experience and education relating to accounting, auditing and finance.
   (B)   All persons desiring to become a candidate for the position of the San
Benito County Clerk-Auditor-Recorder shall provide to the County Clerk, at the
time of filing for the position, or prior to an appointment by the Board of
Supervisors to this position, a written statement declaring the manner under
which he or she qualifies for the position.
(1966 Code, § 2-64) (Ord. 679, § 1)
§ 3.01.121 APPROVAL OF CLAIMS.
   (A)   The County Auditor shall audit and allow or reject claims in lieu of,
and with the same effect as, allowance or rejection by the Board of Supervisors
in any of the following cases:
      (1)   Expenditures which have been authorized by purchase orders issued
by the Purchasing Agent or other officer authorized by the Board;
      (2)   Expenditures which have been authorized by contract, ordinance,
resolution or order of the Board;
      (3)   Expenditures under any statute authorizing payment of public aid or
assistance which have been ordered by the Board;
      (4)   Expenditures for charges incurred by the county pursuant to the
provisions of Cal. Gov’t Code Title 3, Division 3, Chapter 3, commencing with §
29600;
      (5)   Refunds of unearned permit fees and similar fees authorized by
resolution of the Board of Supervisors; and
      (6)   Expenditures for emergency and short-notice travel expenses.
   (B)   The Auditor shall issue his or her warrant on the county treasury for
such an amount for each claim he or she finds to be a correct and legal county
charge.
   (C)   Pursuant to the authority granted by Cal. Gov’t Code §§ 29701 and
29742, the three-day waiting period for all claims otherwise required by
statute is eliminated.
(1966 Code, § 2-65) (Ord. 791, § 1)
§ 3.01.122 ADDITIONAL PROCEDURES.
   The Board of Supervisors may prescribe, by resolution, additional procedures
for the audit and disposition of claims but the procedures so prescribed may
not be inconsistent with the provisions of this chapter, Cal. Gov’t Code Part 3
(commencing with § 900) and Part 4 (commencing with § 940), Division 3.6 of
Title 1 or of any other statutes or regulations expressly governing any such
claims or the payment thereof.
(1966 Code, § 2-66) (Ord. 791, § 1)
§ 3.01.123 CLAIMS AGAINST THE COUNTY.
   (A)   Authority. This ordinance is enacted pursuant to Cal. Gov’t Code §
935.
   (B)   Claims required. All claims against the county for money, damages, or
refunds, not otherwise governed by the Government Claims Act, Cal. Gov’t Code
§§ 900 et seq., or another state law (collectively “claims”), shall be
presented within the time and in the manner prescribed by Cal. Gov’t Code Part
3 of Division 3.6 of Title 1 (commencing with § 900 thereof), for claims to
which that Part applies by its own terms, as those provisions now exist or
shall hereafter be amended, and as further provided by this section.
   (C)   Form of claim. All claims shall be made in writing and verified by the
claimant or by his or her guardian, conservator, executor, or administrator.
All claims must contain the information required by Cal. Gov’t Code § 910, as
that section now exists or shall hereafter be amended. The foregoing reference
to Cal. Gov’t Code § 910 shall not be construed to authorize a class action
claim, and no claim may be filed on behalf of a class of persons unless
verified by every member of that class. All claims shall be filed with the
Clerk of the Board.
   (D)   Claim prerequisite to suit. In accordance with Cal. Gov’t Code §§ 935
(b), 945.6, and 946, as those sections now exist or shall hereafter be amended,
all claims shall be presented as provided in this section and acted upon by the
county prior to the filing of any action on such claims, and no such action may
be maintained by any person who has not complied with the requirements of this
section.
   (E)   Suit. Any action brought against the county upon any claim or demand
shall conform to the requirements of Cal. Gov’t Code §§ 940 through 949. Any
action brought against any officer or employee of the county shall conform to
the requirements of Cal. Gov’t Code §§ 950 through 951.
   (F)   Applicability. Nothing in this section revives or reinstates any claim
or cause of action that, on the effective date of this ordinance enacting this
chapter, is barred either by failure to comply with any applicable statute or
ordinance requiring the presentation of a claim or by failure to commence an
action thereon within the period prescribed by an applicable statute of
limitations.
(Ord. 2012-911, § 1, 2012)
ARTICLE IX. CLERK TO THE BOARD OF SUPERVISORS
§ 3.01.140 POSITION OF APPOINTED CLERK TO THE BOARD OF SUPERVISORS CREATED.
   There is established in the county the position known as the Clerk of the
Board of Supervisors. The Clerk shall be appointed by the County Administrative
Officer and shall serve under the supervision of the County Administrative
Officer as provided by Cal. Gov’t Code § 25100.5.
(1966 Code, § 2-67) (Ord. 793, § 1(part); Ord. 1,013, § 1, 2020)
§ 3.01.141 DUTIES AND POWERS.
   The Clerk of the Board shall have those powers and duties specifically
prescribed for the office in the Government Code of the State of California and
such additional powers and duties as are specifically assigned by the Board of
Supervisors and the county’s Administrative Officer.
(1966 Code, § 2-68) (Ord. 793, § 1(part))
ARTICLE X. RESOURCE MANAGEMENT AGENCY
§ 3.01.145 RESOURCE MANAGEMENT AGENCY CREATED.
   (A)   There is established in the county the Resource Management Agency, to
combine the functions of the Planning and Building Department, the Public Works
Department, and the Integrated Waste Management Department.
   (B)   The Director of the Resource Management Agency shall report to the
County Administrative Officer.
(Ord. 953, § 1(part), 2016)
§ 3.01.146 DEFINITIONS.
   The following words and phrases, whenever used in the County Code, shall be
construed as defined in this section.
   BUILDING AND PLANNING DIRECTOR  or DIRECTOR OF PLANNING AND BUILDING. The
Planning and Building Director.
   CHIEF PLANNING OFFICER. The Planning and Building Director.
   COUNTY DIRECTOR OF TRANSPORTATION. The Public Works Administrator.
   DIRECTOR OF INTEGRATED WASTE MANAGEMENT  or  INTEGRATED WASTE MANAGEMENT
DIRECTOR. The Public Works Administrator.
   FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR. The Planning and Building Director.
   INTEGRATED WASTE MANAGEMENT DEPARTMENT. Integrated waste management division
of the Resource Management Agency.
   PETROLEUM ADMINISTRATOR. The Public Works Administrator.
   PLANNING DEPARTMENT, COUNTY PLANNING DEPARTMENT, BUILDING DEPARTMENT,
PLANNING AND BUILDING DEPARTMENT,  or PLANNING AND BUILDING SERVICES. Planning
division of the Resource Management Agency.
   PLANNING DIRECTOR, DIRECTOR OF PLANNING, or COUNTY PLANNING DIRECTOR. The
Planning and Building Director.
   PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENT. Public works division of the Resource Management
Agency.
   PUBLIC WORKS DIRECTOR. The Public Works Administrator.
   RMA DIRECTOR. The Director of the Resource Management Agency of the county.
   ROAD DEPARTMENT. Public works division of the Resource Management Agency.
(Ord. 953, § 1(part), 2016; Ord. 1053, § 1, 2023)
ARTICLE XI. LOBBYING
§ 3.01.150 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The purpose of this chapter is to maintain a fair and open decision-
making process in county government which functions to serve the needs of all
citizens. Both the public and county officials should have full knowledge of
lobbying activities that influence legislative or administrative actions.
   (B)   The purpose of this chapter is also to impose registration and
disclosure requirements on those engaged in lobbying efforts to influence the
decisions of county policy makers for compensation. Public disclosure of the
identities of lobbyists, the interests they represent, and the financing behind
their activities fosters public confidence in the integrity of county
government.
   (C)   Additionally, these disclosure and registration requirements ensure
that county officials are aware of the interests lobbyists represent when they
engage in lobbying activities. It is in the public interest to adopt this
chapter to provide adequate and effective transparency regarding lobbying
efforts aimed at influencing county government.
   (D)   The code furthers the public interest that lobbyists do not
misrepresent facts or their positions, deceive county representatives through
false communications, place county representatives under personal obligations,
or claim control over their actions.
(Ord. 1070, § 1 (part), 2024)
§ 3.01.151 DEFINITIONS.
   Whenever used in this article, the following words and phrases shall have
the definitions provided in this section. Other terms used and not defined in
this article have the meanings set forth in this title, and terms not used and
not defined in this title have the meanings set forth in the California
Political Reform Act of 1974, as amended.
   ADMINISTRATIVE ACTION includes the proposal, drafting, development,
consideration, advocacy, recommendation, adoption, amendment, termination,
extension, or approval of any rule, regulation, agreement, contract, permit,
license, policy, land use entitlement, or hiring action.
   AT THE BEHEST means at the means under the control or at the direction of,
in cooperation, consultation, coordination, or concert with, at the request or
suggestion of, or with the express, prior consent of.
   CAMPAIGN CONTRIBUTION. A payment, a forgiveness of a loan, a payment of a
loan by a third party, or an enforceable promise to make a payment except to
the extent that full and adequate consideration is received, unless it is clear
from the surrounding circumstances that it is not made for political purposes.
An expenditure made at the behest of a candidate, committee or elected county
official is a contribution to the candidate, committee or elected county
official unless full and adequate consideration is received for making the
expenditure.
      (1)   The term CAMPAIGN CONTRIBUTION includes the purchase of tickets for
events such as dinners, luncheons, rallies and similar fundraising events; the
candidate’s own money or property used on behalf of his or her candidacy; the
granting of discounts or rebates not extended to the public generally or the
granting of discounts or rebates by television and radio stations and
newspapers not extended on an equal basis to all candidates for the same
office; the payment of compensation by any person for the personal services or
expenses of any other person if such services are rendered or expenses incurred
on behalf of a candidate or committee without payment of full and adequate
consideration.
      (2)   The term CAMPAIGN CONTRIBUTION further includes any transfer of
anything of value received by a committee from another committee, unless full
and adequate consideration is received.
      (3)   The term CAMPAIGN CONTRIBUTION further includes any transfer of
anything of value received by a controlled committee from another committee,
unless full and adequate consideration is received.
      (4)   The term CAMPAIGN CONTRIBUTION does not include:
         (a)   Amounts received pursuant to an enforceable promise to the
extent such amounts have been previously reported as a contribution;
         (b)   A payment made by an occupant of a home or office for costs
related to any meeting or fundraising event held in the occupant’s home or
office if the costs for the meeting or fundraising event are $500.00 or less;
or
         (c)   Volunteer personal services or payments made by any individual
for his or her own travel expenses if such payments are made voluntarily
without any understanding or agreement that they shall be, directly or
indirectly, repaid to him or her.
   CANDIDATE. An individual who has filed a statement of organization as a
committee for election to elective county office, a declaration of intent for
election to elective county office or a declaration of candidacy to elective
county office, whichever occurs first. An individual person shall not be deemed
a candidate for purposes of this chapter (1) after the individual is sworn into
elective county office, or (2) if the individual lost the election, after the
individual has terminated their campaign statement filing obligation for
elective county office pursuant to Cal. Government Code § 84214, or after
certification of the election results, whichever is earlier.
   CLIENT. The person who compensates a lobbyist for representation before a
county official.
   CONTRIBUTION. See CAMPAIGN CONTRIBUTION, above.
   CONTROLLED COMMITTEE. A committee which is controlled directly or indirectly
by a candidate, or which acts jointly with a candidate in connection with the
making of expenditures. A candidate controls a committee if the candidate,
their agent or any other committee the candidate controls has a significant
influence on the actions or decisions of the CONTROLLED COMMITTEE.
   COUNTY OFFICIAL. Members of the Board of Supervisors and their staff
(excluding administrative staff), appointees of the Board of Supervisors, the
District Attorney, the Assessor, the Sheriff, Chief Operating Officer, Deputy
County Executives, county department and agency heads, members of county boards
or commissions, and persons who have been elected to a county office but have
not yet been sworn into office.
   CONTACT OR CONTACTING. Attendance at a meeting with a county official, or
any direct communication with a county official, whether oral, electronic, or
in writing, including, but not limited to communication through an agent,
associate, or employee, for the purpose of engaging in lobbying activity.
   COMPENSATED or COMPENSATION. Any economic consideration for services
rendered or to be rendered in the future, including, without limitation,
payment, distribution transfer, loan advance, deposit, other rendering of
money, property, services, or anything else of value.
   ELECTIVE COUNTY OFFICE. The Board of Supervisors, the Assessor/Recorder/
County Clerk-Recorder, the District Attorney, the Sheriff, and the Treasurer/
Tax Collector, or other county positions which are elected by the voters.
   ELECTED OFFICER. An individual who holds elective county office or has been
elected to elective county office but has not yet taken office.
   GIFT. Shall be defined as set forth in the Political Reform Act, Cal.
Government Code § 81000 et seq., and the regulations adopted thereunder; except
that the exclusion for campaign contributions shall be defined and governed as
set forth in this chapter.
   INFLUENCING. Contacting, either directly or indirectly, for the purpose of
promoting, supporting, modifying, opposing, causing the delay or abandonment of
conduct, or otherwise intentionally affecting the official actions of the
county official, by any means, including, but not limited to providing,
preparing, processing, or submitting information, incentives, statistics,
studies, or analyses.
   LEGISLATIVE ACTION. The drafting, introduction, consideration, modification,
enactment, or defeat of any resolution, ordinance, amendment thereto, report,
nomination, policy, or other action of the Board of Supervisors; a county
board, commission, or task force; or any joint powers authority of which the
county is a party.
   LOBBYING ACTIVITY. Influencing, or attempting to influence, directly or
indirectly, a county official regarding public policy, legislative or
administrative actions of the county, or decision-making on behalf of a
particular interest or organization.
      (1)   LOBBYING ACTIVITY does not include: general donations to
organizations unless specifically intended for lobbying efforts in San Benito;
expenditures to support a ballot measure; professionals advocating for their
own applications or contracts; attending public meetings or submitting written
statements to the official record; or volunteering with organizations, such as
neighborhood groups not for compensation. For more details, see §
3.01.153: Exemptions, below.
   LOBBYIST. Unless exempt under §
3.01.153, means:
      (1)   CONTRACT LOBBYIST. Any person, whether an entity or individual,
engaging in lobbying activity on behalf of one or more clients (acting
individually or through agents, associates, employees, or contractors) and who
has received or has entered into an agreement for compensation of $1,000.00 or
more for any services that include engaging in lobbying activity during any
consecutive three-month period.
      (2)   IN-HOUSE LOBBYIST. Any person, including a business, corporation,
association, political action committee, or any other organization if its
owners, officers, or employees have engaged in lobbying activity on its behalf.
      (3)   EXPENDITURE LOBBYIST. Any person who makes payments or incurs
expenditures in the aggregate amount of $5,000.00 or more during any calendar
year in connection with carrying out public relations, advertising, or similar
activities with the intent of soliciting or urging, directly or indirectly,
other persons to communicate directly with any county official in order to
attempt to influence a legislative or administrative action. The $5,000.00
threshold does not include:
         (a)   Compensation paid to contract lobbyists or in-house lobbyists
for lobbying activity; or
         (b)   Dues, donations, or other economic consideration paid to a
membership organization that is ongoing in nature and whose membership services
are not limited to lobbying activity, regardless of whether the dues,
donations, or other economic consideration are used in whole or in part for
lobbying activity.
      (4)   LAND USE LOBBYIST. Any person who, during any consecutive 12-month
period (i) makes payments or incurs expenditures in the aggregate amount of
$5,000.00 or more attempting to influence a major land use approval; or (ii)
spends an aggregate amount of 10 or more hours of compensated time attempting
to influence a major land use approval, including time spent by officers,
employees, agents, and members.
         (a)   The exemptions in subsections (d), (i), (j), (l), and (m) of §
3.01.153 (Exemptions) do not apply to land use lobbyists.
         (b)   Officers, employees, agents, and members of a land use lobbyist
are not required to separately comply with §
3.01.152 (Registration and Disclosure Requirements) for time or funds expended
on behalf of the land use lobbyist in the scope of that relationship.
   LOBBYIST DISCLOSURE REPORT. A document, with requirements outlined in §
3.01.152 , that lobbyists, and lobbying firms are required to file to register
as lobbyists and report their lobbying activities.
   MAJOR LAND USE APPROVAL. Any legislative or administrative action by the
county on an application relating to:
      (1)   Construction, demolition, alteration, development, or use of
property in the unincorporated county that, if approved, would affect, in the
aggregate, more than 25,000 gross square feet of existing, approved, or
proposed buildings or structures;
      (2)   The surface mining operation or reclamation of mined lands
involving the disturbance
or reclamation of more than 25,000 gross square feet of land; or
      (3)   A “major subdivision,” as defined in §
23.01.004 of the San Benito County Code of Ordinances.
   OWNER. Any individual with greater than a 50-percent interest in the
business.
   PERSON. Any individual, business entity, trust, corporation, association,
committee, or any other organization or group of persons acting in concert.
(Ord. 1070, § 1 (part), 2024)
§ 3.01.152 REGISTRATION AND DISCLOSURE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Lobbyist registration.
      (1)   Initial registration. A lobbyist is required to register his or her
lobbying activity by filing a registration form, which is the same as a
“lobbyist disclosure form” (outlined below) with the County Clerk-Recorder no
later than 10 days after accepting employment or contracting as a lobbyist and
paying a registration fee.
         (a)   Registration forms are available on the County Clerk-Recorder’s
official webpage, and require disclosure of lobbyist details (including name,
business address, and contact information), employees engaged in lobbying,
clients represented, and specifics of lobbying activities.
         (b)   Amendments to registration must be submitted promptly following
any changes to the provided information.
         (c)   A lobbyist who meets the threshold requirements of one or more
of the categories (contract lobbyist, in-house lobbyist, expenditure lobbyist,
or land use lobbyist) is only required to register once but must make all
disclosures in the lobbyist disclosure report.
         (d)   Only lobbying activity that occurs after the effective date of
this ordinance shall be considered for the purpose of qualifying as a lobbyist.
      (2)   Annual registration. A lobbyist shall renew their registration by
January 15 of each year by filing a lobbyist disclosure report (defined below)
and paying a registration fee, unless they have terminated their status as a
lobbyist pursuant to this section.
      (3)   Quarterly disclosures. Every lobbyist registered or required to be
registered pursuant to this article must file a lobbyist disclosure report for
every calendar quarter with the County Clerk-Recorder no later than 15 calendar
days after the end of each quarter after initial registration whether or not
any lobbying activities have occurred during such period unless they have filed
a declaration attesting to the termination of lobbying activity pursuant to the
requirements of this section.
         (a)   Quarterly disclosures must be filed by April 15, July 15, and
October 15 for the prior calendar quarter.
         (b)   The statement shall be filed with the County Clerk-Recorder, and
must include:
            1.   The name(s) and title(s) of the county officer or employee who
was communicated with, or received the service or thing of value;
            2.   A description of the governmental decisions or issues
discussed;
            3.   Any payments or other forms of compensation provided during
the interaction(s); and
            4.   Must be signed under penalty of perjury.
         (c)   For purposes of determining the amount expended during one
quarter, the amounts expended on any one county officer or employee by all
representatives, officers, directors and employees of a corporation, firm, or
organization shall be aggregated.
   (B)   Registration fees.
      (1)   Each lobbyist required to file a lobbyist disclosure report under
this article shall be charged an initial registration fee of $250, and an
annual renewal fee of $125.
      (2)   If the fee is not paid at the time of registration or registration
renewal, a late registration fee will be assessed each day until the
registration fee is paid in full. In no event will the late registration fee
exceed 100 percent of the unpaid registration fee.
      (3)   Lobbyists who fail to file a quarterly disclosure report on the
date due will be assessed a late fee of $10 per day per violation.
   (C)   Lobbyist disclosure report.
      (1)   A lobbyist who meets the threshold requirements of one or more of
the categories (contract lobbyist, in-house lobbyist, expenditure lobbyist, or
land use lobbyist) must fill out a registration report and annual updates with
all the applicable information including the following:
         (a)   Name;
         (b)   Business address;
         (c)   Telephone and fax numbers;
         (d)   Email address;
         (e)   Names of all owners if the lobbyist is a sole proprietorship or
partnership of fewer than five persons;
         (f)   Names of the officers and agent of service of process, if any,
if the lobbyist is a corporation;
         (g)   If applicable, a description of the nature of, the business,
corporation, association, committee, or any other organization in sufficient
detail to inform the reader of its nature and purpose; and
         (h)   If applicable, contacts made with county officials during the
preceding calendar quarter for the purpose of conducting lobbying activity.
Contact information must include a brief description of the item(s) of
legislative or administrative action the lobbyist is seeking to influence and
the number of contacts in the following ranges: one, two to five, six to ten,
eleven or more.
      (2)   All contract lobbyists must also provide the following information
for each client:
         (a)   Name of each client represented before county officials;
         (b)   A brief description of the legislative or administrative action
(s) the lobbyist seeks to influence on behalf of each client;
         (c)   Name of each person employed or retained by the lobbyist to
engage in lobbying activity on behalf of each client; and
         (d)   The total compensation promised or received from each client
listed during previous calendar quarter for lobbying activity within the
following ranges: zero to $100,000.00, and over $100,000.01.
      (3)   All in-house lobbyists must also provide the following information:
         (a)   Names of each owner, officer, and employee conducting lobbying
activities on its behalf; and
         (b)   A brief description of the legislative or administrative action
(s) the lobbyist seeks to influence.
      (4)   All expenditure lobbyists must also provide the following
information:
         (a)   Names of each owner, officer, and employee conducting lobbying
activities on its behalf; and
         (b)   A brief description of the legislative or administrative action
(s) the lobbyist seeks to influence.
      (5)   Land use lobbyists:
         (a)   All land use lobbyists must provide the following information
for each major land use approval the land use lobbyist has attempted to
influence during the reporting period:
            1.   A description of the major land use approval.
            2.   A summary of the land use lobbyist’s activities during the
reporting period relating to influencing the major land use approval, including
reports prepared, events held, advertisements purchased, robocalls made,
mailers distributed, and public officials contacted.
            3.   The total amount the land use lobbyist expended during the
reporting period relating to influencing each major land use approval,
excluding compensation to officers and employees.
            4.   Each entity to which the land use lobbyist made payments of
$500 or more, in the aggregate, during the reporting period for activities
relating to influencing a major land use approval; the date of each payment;
and the purpose for which the payment was made.
            5.   All contacts by the land use lobbyist, including by its
officers, employees, agents, and members, with public officials, including
officers and employees of counties, cities, special districts, and state
agencies, for the purpose of influencing the major land use approval. The
report must include the name of each public official, the date of the contact,
and the nature of the contact.
            6.   The client (if any) on whose behalf the land use lobbyist
sought to influence the major land use approval.
            7.   Any other information required by the County Clerk-Recorder
through regulation consistent with the purposes and provisions of this chapter.
         (b)   Land use lobbyists must update the reports required by this
section at least two days, but not more than 21 days, before any meeting or
public hearing at which an action relating to the major land use approval, or
any component thereof, will be on the agenda.
   (D)   Employment of county officers or employees.
      (1)   A lobbyist registered or required to be registered pursuant to this
article, or an individual, corporation, firm or organization employing or
represented by a lobbyist registered or required to be registered who knowingly
employs a county officer or employee shall file a written notice with the
County Clerk-Recorder.
         (a)   The notice shall be filed with the County Clerk-Recorder within
10 days after employing a county officer or employee. The notice shall be
entitled, “Notice of Lobbyist Employing a County Officer or Employee” and shall
contain the full name and business address of the person filing the statement,
the full name of the county officer or employee the lobbyist is employing, and
the date the lobbyist first employed the county officer or employee.
   (E)   Termination of registration.
      (1)   If lobbyists file a declaration attesting to the termination of
lobbying activity no later than the date the annual registration or quarterly
disclosure is due, they will not be required to file any further reports. This
declaration must be accompanied by a final lobbyist disclosure report,
disclosing any lobbying activities that occurred during the quarter of
termination.
   (F)   Submission of information. All information required under this section
shall be submitted to the County Clerk-Recorder in the format designated by the
County Clerk-Recorder.
   (G)   Verification of information. Lobbyists shall verify, under penalty of
perjury, the accuracy and completeness of the information provided under this
chapter.
   (H)   Retention of documents. Lobbyists are requested retain for a period of
five years all books, papers and documents necessary to substantiate the
registration and disclosure reports required by this chapter.
(Ord. 1070, § 1 (part), 2024)
§ 3.01.153 EXEMPTION.
   The following persons are exempt from the requirements of this chapter
unless otherwise specified:
   (A)   A public official acting in his or her official capacity.
   (B)   A person engaged solely in publication or broadcasting of news items,
editorials, or commentary which directly or indirectly urges governmental
action.
   (C)   A person hired by the county for work performed on behalf of county,
or a person who prepares documents for approval by the county under the
California Environmental Quality Act of 1970, or a person who has been
specifically invited by a County official for the purpose of giving testimony
in aid of the body or person extending the invitation or invited to attend a
meeting such as a county task force or department committee meeting to provide
information or assistance requested by county staff.
   (D)   The owner of a business whose attempts to influence governmental
action are on behalf of the business and:
      (1)   The owner or business has not retained a person to engage in
lobbying activity on behalf of the owner or business; or
      (2)   Officers or employees of the business (not including the owner)
have not engaged in lobbying activity on behalf of the owner or business.
      (3)   This exemption applies only to the threshold for becoming an in-
house lobbyist as defined in this code section. An owner of a business who
meets this exemption is subject to the requirements of this chapter if he or
she meets the definition of contract lobbyist or expenditure lobbyist as
defined under this section.
   (E)   A person whose attempts to influence governmental action are limited
to:
      (1)   Publicly appearing at a public meeting, public hearing, or other
official proceeding open to the public; and/or
      (2)   Preparing, processing or submitting documents or writings in
connection with governmental action for use at a public meeting, public
hearing, or other official proceeding open to the public.
   (F)   A person whose sole activity includes one or more of the following:
      (1)   Submitting a bid on a competitively bid contract or other
solicitation for goods or services;
      (2)   Submitting a written response to a request for proposals or
qualifications or other solicitation for goods or services;
      (3)   Participating in an oral interview or other process in connection
with a request for proposals or qualifications, or other solicitation for goods
or services; or
      (4)   Negotiating the terms of an agreement with the county official
authorized to negotiate such an agreement.
   (G)   A person who meets with county officials solely to lodge
“whistleblower” complaints relating to improper governmental activity such as
mismanagement, waste of funds, an abuse of authority, or a substantial and
specific danger to public health or safety.
   (H)   A person who meets with the County Counsel or Clerk of the Board
regarding any claim or litigation matter, negotiation of any agreements where
the county is a party, or the requirements or interpretation of this chapter.
   (I)   Members of non-profit organizations or the uncompensated members of
the board of directors of a non-profit organization when they attempt to
influence county officials on behalf of the non-profit organization.
   (J)   Members of neighborhood associations, neighborhood advisory
committees, or project area committees.
   (K)   A person whose communications are solely related to:
      (1)   The establishment, amendment, administration, implementation, or
interpretation of a collective bargaining agreement or a memorandum of
agreement between the county and a recognized employee organization;
      (2)   Management decisions as to the working conditions of represented
employees that clearly relate to the terms of a collective bargaining agreement
or memorandum of agreement between the county and a recognized employee
organization; or
      (3)   Proceedings before the County Personnel Board.
   (L)   A person whose communications with county officials are solely in
connection with the administration of an existing contract or agreement between
the person and the county.
   (M)   Compensated officers or employees of a nonprofit organization with tax
exempt status under Section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code whose
attempts to influence governmental action are on behalf of the organization.
   (N)   A person performing a duty or professional service that requires a
license, including but not limited to attorneys, architects, certified public
accountants (CPAs), or engineers licensed to practice in the State of
California.
(Ord. 1070, § 1 (part), 2024)
§ 3.01.154 PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   No lobbyist shall commit any of the following acts:
      (1)   Deception. Deceiving or attempting to deceive any county official
regarding any material fact pertaining to any pending or proposed legislative
or administrative action.
      (2)   Unauthorized communications. Sending or causing any communication
to be sent to any county official in the name of any non-existent person or in
the name of an existing person without the express or implied consent of such
person.
      (3)   Fictitious persons. Contacting any county official in the name of
any non-existent person or in the name of any existing person, except with the
consent of such existing person.
      (4)   Indirect violations. Attempting to evade the requirements of this
chapter through indirect efforts or through the use of agents, associates,
intermediaries, or employees.
      (5)   Creation of obligations. Performing or sponsoring any act with the
purpose and intent of placing any county official under personal obligation to
the lobbyist.
      (6)   Appearance of obligations. Representing, directly or indirectly,
orally or in writing, that he or she can control or obtain the vote or action
of any county official.
      (7)   Unlawful gifts. Making gifts to any county official aggregating
more than $10 in a calendar month; acting as an agent or intermediary in the
making of such gifts; or arranging for the making of such gifts by any other
person.
   (B)   No elected officer shall accept any contribution from a person
registered pursuant to this chapter where the person’s registration form
includes the elective county office that the elected officer holds.
   (C)   No candidate or controlled committee shall accept any contribution
from a person registered pursuant to this chapter where the person’s
registration form includes the elective county office to which the candidate is
seeking election.
   (D)   An elected officer, candidate or controlled committee may reasonably
rely on the information contained in the most recent list of registrants
compiled by the County Clerk-Recorder in determining whether contributions may
be accepted from any person. Acceptance of contributions which would not be
prohibited based on the information set forth in the County Clerk-Recorder’s
most recent list of registrants shall not constitute a violation of this
section.
   (E)   No county official shall knowingly accept any gift from an individual
registered pursuant to this chapter. An elected officer, candidate or
controlled committee may reasonably rely on the information contained in the
most recent list of registrants compiled by the County Clerk-Recorder in
determining whether a gift may be accepted from an individual.
      (1)   Acceptance of a gift from an individual or entity not on the County
Clerk-Recorder’s most recent list of registrants shall not constitute a
violation of this section unless the elected officer, candidate or controlled
committee knows that the individual or entity making the gift has registered,
even though the registrant has not been included on the list.
(Ord. 1070, § 1 (part), 2024)
§ 3.01.155 PENALTIES.
   (A)   Negligent and unintentional violations of this chapter shall be
punishable in accordance with procedures set forth in
Chapter 1.04 of this Code.
   (B)   Administrative fines for negligent and unintentional violations of
this chapter shall be assessed in the following amounts:
      (1)   A fine not exceeding $250 for a first violation;
      (2)   A fine not exceeding five hundred dollars ($1,000) for a second
violation within two years from the date of a prior violation; and
      (3)   A fine not exceeding one thousand dollars ($2,000) for a third
violation, or any subsequent violation, within two years from the date of any
prior violation(s).
   (C)   The County Clerk-Recorder shall post on the county website and make
available to the public a list of all lobbyists who have received notices or
paid fines for violating the provisions of this chapter within the previous
four years.
   (D)   Willful, knowing, or intentional violations of the provisions of this
Article shall be liable in a civil action brought by the Office of the County
Counsel. Any violation of the provisions of this chapter may result in civil
penalties of up to $5,000 per violation, or the amount of the compensation
received for the lobbying activity, whichever is greater.
   (E)   Three negligent or unintentional violations, or one intentional
violation of this chapter shall result in a prohibition against engaging in
lobbying activity for compensation. Such debarment will be in effect for two
years from the date the County Clerk-Recorder determines that a violation has
occurred or until the lobbyist has come into compliance with this chapter,
whichever is later.
   (F)   Violation of this chapter shall not constitute a criminal misdemeanor.
(Ord. 1070, § 1 (part), 2024)
§ 3.01.156 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Any person may file a complaint with the County Clerk-Recorder or
Clerk of the Board alleging a violation of this chapter.
   (B)   Enforcement protocol.
      (1)   Upon discovering a potential violation of this chapter, the County
Clerk-Recorder must notify the lobbyist of the alleged violation and the
requirements of this chapter. Persons notified of a potential violation will
have 30 days to correct the error or demonstrate to the County Clerk-Recorder
that they have not violated this article.
      (2)   The County Clerk-Recorder, or their designee, will investigate
alleged violations of this chapter in conjunction with the Office of the County
Counsel.
         (a)   The County Clerk-Recorder has the power to inspect all documents
required to be maintained by this article.
         (b)   The County Clerk-Recorder may issue an order to show cause to
any person for violations under this article. Such an order must specify a time
and place where such person must appear to provide evidence that he or she has
complied with the requirements of this article.
      (3)   The County Clerk-Recorder shall assess and collect fees and
administrative penalties as an enforcement officer, in conjunction with the
Office of the County Counsel, in compliance with the administrative procedures
established by
Chapter 1.04 (Administrative Citations) of this Code.
      (4)   Decisions of the County Clerk-Recorder shall be appealable to the
Office of the County Hearing Officer established by
Chapter 1.04 (Administrative Citations) of this Code.
   (C)   In addition to any other remedies provided in this chapter or any
other law, ordinance, or regulation, and regardless of whether the
administrative enforcement process in this chapter has occurred, the Office of
the County Counsel may bring a civil action against any person who has violated
or is violating any provision of this chapter. Any person determined by a court
to have violated this chapter may be subject to civil penalties provided in
this chapter and any other relief ordered by the court.
   (D)   The County Clerk-Recorder may promulgate rules, regulations,
guidelines, and policies to implement and administer the provisions of this
chapter.
      (1)   The County Clerk-Recorder is authorized to establish policies and
procedures necessary for the implementation of the program, including, but not
limited to, public outreach, advertising, marketing, training sessions,
seminars, and conducting both public and internal county training programs.
      (2)   The Clerk-Recorder may collaborate with internal departments and
external partners to promote the program’s success.
      (3)   The County Clerk-Recorder is further authorized to make technical
amendments to policies, applications, and filing forms as necessary.
      (4)   The Clerk-Recorder is also empowered to allocate and expend general
fund resources as budgeted and approved by the Board of Supervisors for the
implementation of the program and to perform such other duties as may be
necessary to fulfill the purposes of this ordinance.
(Ord. 1070, § 1 (part), 2024)
CHAPTER 3.03: PERSONNEL
Section
   
3.03.001   Purpose of personnel system
   
3.03.002   Definitions
   
3.03.003   Administration
   
3.03.004   Exempt employees
   
3.03.005   Adoption and amendment of rules
   
3.03.006   Contracts for special service
   
3.03.007   Appointment
   
3.03.008   Compensation
   
3.03.009   Probationary period
   
3.03.010   Disciplinary actions
   
3.03.011   Right of appeal
   
3.03.012   Lay-off and re-employment
   
3.03.013   Political activity
   
3.03.014   Memoranda of understanding
Statutory reference:
   Civil service for county employees, see Cal. Gov’t Code §§ 31100 to 31115
   County officers generally, see Cal. Gov’t Code §§ 24000 et seq.
   Employees generally, see Cal. Gov’t Code §§ 31000 et seq.
§ 3.03.001 PURPOSE OF PERSONNEL SYSTEM.
   (A)   The following personnel system is hereby adopted in order to:
      (1)   Establish an equitable and uniform procedure for dealing with
personnel matters;
      (2)   Attract the most competent and desirable persons available to
county service;
      (3)   Assure that appointment and advancement of employees are based on
merit and ability;
      (4)   Provide reasonable security for qualified employees; and
      (5)   Comply with applicable laws relating to the administration of the
personnel process.
   (B)   The objectives of this personnel system are to facilitate efficient
and economical uninterrupted service to the public, maintain harmonious and
cooperative relationships between county employees and the county, and to
provide for a fair and equitable system of personnel management in the county
government. These objectives are facilitated by the provisions of Cal. Gov’t
Code §§ 3500 et seq., granting public employees of local governments the rights
of organization and collective bargaining concerning the determination of terms
and conditions of their employment.
(1966 Code, § 12-2) (Ord. 546, § 1(part))
§ 3.03.002 DEFINITIONS.
   The terms used to administer the personnel system shall be defined in the
personnel rules.
(1966 Code, § 12-3) (Ord. 546, § 1(part))
§ 3.03.003 ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   The county’s Administrative Officer shall administer the county
personnel system and may delegate any of the powers and duties, as he or she
may deem appropriate to any authorized representative, or may recommend that
such powers and duties be performed under contract as provided in §
3.03.006 of this chapter.
   (B)   The county’s Administrative Officer shall:
      (1)   Act as the appointing authority for the county except where the
authority is conferred on other officers by the personnel rules or retained by
the Board of Supervisors;
      (2)   Administer all the provisions of this chapter and of the personnel
rules not specifically reserved to the Board of Supervisors;
      (3)   Prepare and recommend to the Board of Supervisors personnel rules
and revisions and amendments to such rules;
      (4)   Prepare or cause to be prepared a position classification plan,
including class specifications, and revisions of the plan;
      (5)   Have the authority to discipline employees in accordance with this
chapter and the personnel rules of the county;
      (6)   Provide for the publishing or posting of notices of tests for
positions in the competitive service; the receiving of applications therefor;
the conducting and grading of tests; and the certification of a list of all
persons eligible for appointment to the appropriate position in the competitive
service;
      (7)   Serve as the county’s Employee Relations Officer, with
responsibility for administering the county’s employer-employee relations; and
      (8)   Perform any other duty that may be required to administer the
personnel system.
(1966 Code, § 12-4) (Ord. 546, § 1(part))
§ 3.03.004 EXEMPT EMPLOYEES.
   (A)   The provisions of this chapter shall apply to all offices, positions
and employments in the service of the county, except:
      (1)   Elective officers;
      (2)   The county’s Administrative Officer, Assistant to the county’s
Administrative Officer, Emergency Services Coordinator and any other
professional or staff assistants to the county’s Administrative Officer;
      (3)   Department heads appointed by the Board of Supervisors and other
employees in positions included in the exempt service;
      (4)   Persons engaged under contract to supply expert, professional,
technical or any other services;
      (5)   Members of appointive boards, commissions and committees;
      (6)   Volunteer personnel who are not regular, salaried employees;
      (7)   Emergency employees who are hired to meet the immediate
requirements of an emergency condition, such as extraordinary fire, flood or
earthquake which threatens life or property;
      (8)   Temporary or extra help employees who are not regularly employed in
permanent positions as defined by the personnel rules;
      (9)   Any position primarily funded under a state or federal employment
program;
      (10)   The Undersheriff;
      (11)   The Assistant County Auditor;
      (12)   The Buildings and Grounds Maintenance Superintendent;
      (13)   The Migrant Camp Manager;
      (14)   The Parks Manager;
      (15)   Child Support Commissioner; and
      (16)   Court Executive Officer.
   (B)   In the event any provision of this chapter, as it may apply to any
employee of the county subject to Cal. Gov’t Code §§ 19800 et seq. is
determined by the state’s Personnel Board to be in conflict with Local Agency
Personnel Standards (Title 2. Administration, Division 5. LAPS), then to such
extent the Local Agency Personnel Standards shall supersede and control over
the provisions of this chapter.
(1966 Code, § 12-5) (Ord. 546, § 1(part); Ord. 702 § 2)
§ 3.03.005 ADOPTION AND AMENDMENT OF RULES.
   (A)   Personnel rules shall be adopted by resolution of the Board of
Supervisors in compliance with the meet-and-confer process. The rules may
establish regulations governing the personnel system, including but not limited
to:
      (1)   Preparation, installation, revision and maintenance of a position
classification plan covering all positions in the competitive service,
including employment standards and qualifications for each class;
      (2)   Appropriate announcement of the selection process and acceptance of
applications for employment;
      (3)   Preparation and conduct of tests and the establishment and use of
resulting employment lists containing names of persons eligible for
appointment;
      (4)   Certification and appointment of persons from employment lists, and
the making of provisional appointments;
      (5)   Establishment of probationary testing periods;
      (6)   Evaluation of employees during the probationary testing period and
thereafter;
      (7)   Transfer, promotion, demotion, lay-off and reinstatement of
employees in the competitive service;
      (8)   Separation of employees from the county service;
      (9)   The establishment and maintenance of adequate personnel records for
the purposes of accounting and legal requirements;
      (10)   The establishment of any necessary disciplinary procedures;
      (11)   The establishment of any necessary appeal and grievance
procedures;
      (12)   The establishment of procedures for conducting employer-employee
relations pursuant to the provisions of Cal. Gov’t Code §§ 3500 et seq.; and
      (13)   Establishment of regulations, policies and procedures pertaining
to other areas of personnel administration as needed.
   (B)   The county’s Administrative Officer may draft rules, procedures and
forms necessary for the administration of the county personnel system and not
in conflict with the provisions of this chapter. Employees shall comply with
all rules and procedures prescribed and each department head shall enforce the
rules, procedures and use of forms.
   (C)   Department heads are authorized to draft and enforce such further
rules, policies, regulations and procedures for the governing of employees in
their departments as are determined by the county’s Administrative Officer and
County Counsel to be consistent with county ordinances, resolutions or
memoranda of understanding.
   (D)   All county employees shall hold their positions subject to the rules
and regulations which may be established by resolution of the Board of
Supervisors.
(1966 Code, § 12-6) (Ord. 546, § 1(part))
§ 3.03.006 CONTRACTS FOR SPECIAL SERVICE.
   (A)   The county’s Administrative Officer shall consider and make
recommendations to the Board of Supervisors regarding the extent to which the
county should contract for the performance of technical services in connection
with the establishment or operation of the personnel system.
   (B)   The Board of Supervisors may contract with any qualified person or
public or private agency for the performance of all or any of the following
responsibilities and duties imposed by ordinance:
      (1)   The preparation of personnel rules and subsequent revisions and
amendments;
      (2)   The preparation of a position classification plan and subsequent
amendments;
      (3)   The preparation, conduct and grading of competitive tests;
      (4)   The conduct of employee training programs; and
      (5)   Special and technical services of an advisory or informational
character on matters relating to personnel administration.
(1966 Code, § 12-7) (Ord. 546, § 1(part))
§ 3.03.007 APPOINTMENT.
   (A)   Appointments to vacant positions in the competitive service shall be
made in accordance with the personnel rules. Appointments and promotions shall
be based on merit and fitness to be ascertained so far as practicable by
competitive examination. Examinations may be used and conducted to aid the
selection of qualified employees and shall consist of selection techniques
which will test fairly the qualifications of candidates such as achievement and
aptitude tests, written tests, personal interview, performance test, physical
agility tests, evaluation of daily work performance, work samples or any
combination of these or other tests. The probationary period shall be
considered an extension of the examination process. Physical, medical and
psychological tests may be given as a part of any examination.
   (B)   The appointing authority of employees in the competitive service is
the county’s Administrative Officer or other officer designated in the
personnel rules.
   (C)   Appointments to the following positions shall be made as provided
elsewhere by statute or ordinance:
      (1)   All elected officials;
      (2)   Chief Administrative Officer;
      (3)   County Counsel;
      (4)   Agricultural Commissioner/Sealer of Weights and Measures;
      (5)   Chief Probation Officer;
      (6)   Child Support Commissioner;
      (7)   Court Executive Officer; and
      (8)   County Surveyor.
   (D)   All other department heads shall be appointed by the County
Administrative Officer. Department head positions shall be established by
resolution of the Board of Supervisors.
   (E)   The position of Undersheriff for the County of San Benito shall be a
position serving at the pleasure of the Sheriff, subject to dismissal without
cause. The Sheriff shall be the appointing authority.
   (F)   In the event that an employee in the competitive service is appointed
to a position in the exempt service and subsequently is removed or resigns from
the exempt service, the employee shall have the right, if not terminated for
cause, to be reinstated to the competitive service in their former
classification and department without loss of any rights or privileges and upon
the same conditions as if he or she had remained in that classification;
provided, that a vacancy exists in the former classification and department.
(1966 Code, § 12-8) (Ord. 546, § 1(part); Ord. 691, § 1; Ord. 702, § 1; Ord.
728, § 1; Ord. 982, § 2, 2019)
§ 3.03.008 COMPENSATION.
   (A)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided by law, officers and employees
shall receive the compensation provided in salary schedule adopted by the Board
of Supervisors by ordinance or resolution for the respective classifications of
positions in which they are employed in accordance with the personnel rules and
memoranda of understanding.
      (2)   Salaries shall be paid to officers and employees on the last
working day of each calendar month for service rendered during that month. The
County Auditor shall review monthly time/attendance records to determine that
the employees listed have been appointed, employed, promoted, demoted or their
salaries increased or decreased in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter and the personnel rules before any salaries are paid.
   (B)   (1)   However, all compensation of officers and employees, which has
been fixed by ordinance before the effective date of the ordinance codified in
this chapter, shall continue to be in effect until changed by resolution of the
Board of Supervisors as provided in division (A) of this section.
      (2)   Copies of all salary resolutions shall be kept on file in the
office of the County Clerk and shall be available for public inspection.
   (C)   All fees and commissions allowed by law from whatever source, received
or collected by any officer or employee in the course of his or her duties,
excepting those of the constable, shall belong to the county and shall be paid
into the county treasury unless specifically provided otherwise in this chapter
or a resolution adopted by the Board of Supervisors. All jury fees, except
mileage reimbursements, received by any officer or employee of the county shall
belong to the county and be paid into the county treasury.
(1966 Code, § 12-9) (Ord. 546, § 1(part); Ord. 548, § 1)
§ 3.03.009 PROBATIONARY PERIOD.
   All regular appointments, including promotional appointments shall be for a
probationary period of not less than six months as set forth in the personnel
rules adopted pursuant to this chapter. The appointing authority may not extend
the probationary period under any circumstances. During the probationary
period, the employee may be rejected at any time without the right of appeal,
hearing or any grievance procedure.
(1966 Code, § 12-10) (Ord. 546, § 1(part))
§ 3.03.010 DISCIPLINARY ACTIONS.
   The county administrative authority or any appointing power shall have the
authority to demote, discharge, reprimand, reduce in pay or suspend any regular
employee for cause in accordance with procedures included in the personnel
rules.
(1966 Code, § 12-11) (Ord. 546, § 1(part))
§ 3.03.011 RIGHT OF APPEAL.
   (A)   Any employee in the competitive service shall have the right to appeal
a demotion, reduction in pay, suspension or discharge for disciplinary or
medical reasons, except in those instances where the right of appeal is
specifically prohibited by this chapter or the personnel rules.
   (B)   All appeals shall be processed in accordance with the requirements and
procedures as set forth in the personnel rules adopted pursuant to this
chapter.
(1966 Code, § 12-12) (Ord. 546, § 1(part))
§ 3.03.012 LAY-OFF AND RE-EMPLOYMENT.
   Lay-off and re-employment actions shall follow the process outlined in the
personnel rules.
(1966 Code, § 12-13) (Ord. 546, § 1(part))
§ 3.03.013 POLITICAL ACTIVITY.
   The political activities of county employees shall conform to pertinent
provisions of state law and any local provisions adopted pursuant to state law.
(1966 Code, § 12-14) (Ord. 546, § 1(part))
§ 3.03.014 MEMORANDA OF UNDERSTANDING.
   Provisions of memoranda of understanding approved by the Board of
Supervisors shall become operative on the dates set forth in such memoranda,
notwithstanding the fact that some sections may conflict with provisions of
ordinances or resolutions in effect at the time of approval of the memoranda.
Pending amendment of any such conflicting ordinance or resolution sections, the
provisions of memoranda of understanding shall govern the administration of
matters of wages, hours and terms and conditions of employment.
(1966 Code, § 12-15) (Ord. 546, § 1(part))
CHAPTER 3.05: COUNTY ORGANIZATIONS
Section
Article I. In-Home Supportive Services Public Authority
   
3.05.001   Creation and purpose of the Public Authority
   
3.05.002   Definitions
   
3.05.003   Public Authority created
   
3.05.004   Governing body
   
3.05.005   Public Authority Advisory Committee
   
3.05.006   Character of the Authority
   
3.05.007   Employees
   
3.05.008   Public Authority functions
   
3.05.009   County responsibilities
   
3.05.010   Public Authority powers
   
3.05.011   Public Authority; county agreement
   
3.05.012   Public Authority employment functions
   
3.05.013   Recipient selection of providers
   
3.05.014   State responsibilities
   
3.05.015   Authority administration
   
3.05.016   Labor relations
   
3.05.017   Fiscal provisions
   
3.05.018   Liability
   
3.05.019   Severability
   
3.05.020   Records retention and reporting requirements
   
3.05.021   Cessation of Authority
Article II. Industrial Development Authority
   
3.05.035   Purpose
   
3.05.036   Findings
   
3.05.037   Declarations
Article III. Planning Commission
   
3.05.050   Establishment; composition; compensation
   
3.05.051   Meetings; duties; operation
Article IV. Memorial Park Commission
   
3.05.065   Established; composition
   
3.05.066   Appointment and terms of office of members
   
3.05.067   Powers and duties; meetings; reports
   
3.05.068   Veterans’ Memorial Park
   
3.05.069   Regulation of vendors; findings
   
3.05.070   Franchise agreements for sales at Veterans’ Park
   
3.05.071   Payment of fees for use of fields
   
3.05.072   Penalties
Article V. Juvenile Home and Delinquency Prevention Commission
   
3.05.085   Juvenile home; established; use; operation
   
3.05.086   Same; establishment and maintenance of school
   
3.05.087   Delinquency Prevention Commission; established
   
3.05.088   Same; purpose
   
3.05.089   Same; membership
Article VI. Fish and Game Advisory Commission
   
3.05.100   Creation
   
3.05.101   Membership
   
3.05.102   Terms of office
   
3.05.103   Powers and duties
   
3.05.104   Organization and procedures
Article VII. Child Abuse Prevention Council
   
3.05.120   Findings and purpose
   
3.05.121   Definitions
   
3.05.122   Establishment of Council
   
3.05.123   Membership
   
3.05.124   Terms; appointment
   
3.05.125   Initial terms; staggered
   
3.05.126   Vacancies and removal
   
3.05.127   Chairperson; rules and regulations
   
3.05.128   Council subject to Ralph M. Brown Act
   
3.05.129   Compensation
   
3.05.130   Functions
   
3.05.131   Council committees
   
3.05.132   Statement of economic interest
Article VIII. Parks and Recreation Commission
   
3.05.145   Established
   
3.05.146   Advisory Role
   
3.05.147   Purpose
   
3.05.148   Members
   
3.05.149   Term of Members
   
3.05.150   Vacancy
   
3.05.151   Compensation
   
3.05.152   Officers
   
3.05.153   Meetings
   
3.05.154   Quorum
   
3.05.155   Effective date
Cross-reference:
   Buildings Appeals Board, see §§
21.01.045 to
21.01.047 of this code
   Disaster Council, see §§
11.01.003,
11.01.004 of this code
   Director of Emergency Services, see §
11.01.005 of this code
   Emergency organization, see §
11.01.006 of this code
   Oil and Gas Well Inspectors, see §§
19.21.002 to
19.21.005 of this code
   Personnel regulations, see
Ch. 3.03 of this code
   Purchases of supplies, equipment and contractual services, see
Chapter 5.09 of this code
ARTICLE I. IN-HOME SUPPORTIVE SERVICES PUBLIC AUTHORITY
§ 3.05.001 CREATION AND PURPOSE OF THE PUBLIC AUTHORITY.
   Pursuant to Cal. Welfare and Institutions Code § 12302.25, the Board of
Supervisors hereby establishes a Public Authority separate and apart from the
County of San Benito, whose powers are derived from and consistent with the
provisions of Cal. Welfare and Institutions Code § 12301.6, as may be amended
from time to time. The purpose of this Public Authority is to provide for the
delivery of the In-Home Supportive Services Program (IHSS) as specified in this
chapter, subject to all applicable federal and state laws and regulations, and
to the limitations set forth in this article.
(1966 Code, § 5F-1) (Ord. 759, § 2)
§ 3.05.002 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions apply.
   AUTHORITY. The County of San Benito In-Home Supportive Services Public
Authority.
   AUTHORITY BOARD. The governing body of the County of San Benito In-Home
Supportive Services Public Authority, which is the San Benito County Board of
Supervisors.
   CONSUMER. A person who is a current or past user of personal assistance
services paid through public or private funds and includes a recipient of
assistance from IHSS.
   COUNTY. The County of San Benito.
   COUNTY’S RISK MANAGER. The Director of Human Resources.
   IHSS. In-home supportive services as described in Cal. Welfare and
Institutions Code §§ 12300(a), (b) et seq., as amended from time to time.
   PROVIDER. A person who provides authorized in-home supportive services to a
recipient.
   RECIPIENT. A person eligible and authorized to receive in-home supportive
services pursuant to Cal. Welfare and Institutions Code §§ 12300 et seq.
(1966 Code, § 5F-2) (Ord. 759, § 2)
§ 3.05.003 PUBLIC AUTHORITY CREATED.
   The Board of Supervisors establishes a Public Authority whose powers and
authority are derived from, and consistent with, the provisions of Cal. Welfare
and Institutions Code §§ 12300 et seq. The Public Authority shall be known as
the San Benito County In-Home Supportive Services Public Authority and shall be
referred to as the “Authority”.
(1966 Code, § 5F-3) (Ord. 759, § 2)
§ 3.05.004 GOVERNING BODY.
   The governing body of the Authority shall be the members of the San Benito
County Board of Supervisors.
(1966 Code, § 5F-4) (Ord. 759, § 2)
§ 3.05.005 PUBLIC AUTHORITY ADVISORY COMMITTEE.
   The San Benito County Board of Supervisors established an IHSS advisory
committee in compliance with the Cal. Welfare and Institutions Code §§
12301.3—12301.6. The IHSS Advisory Committee shall meet the following
membership and responsibility requirements:
   (A)   Membership.
      (1)   The IHSS Advisory Committee shall be comprised of not more than 11
individuals. No less than 50% of the membership of the advisory committee shall
be individuals who are current or past users of personal assistance services
paid for through public or private funds or as recipients of services under
this article.
      (2)   Prior to the appointment of members to a committee, the county’s
Board of Supervisors shall solicit recommendations for qualified members
through a fair and open process that includes the provision of reasonable
written notice to, and reasonable response time by, members of the general
public and interested persons and organizations. The term of office for each
member shall be for a three- year staggered term.
   (B)   Responsibility. The IHSS Advisory Committee shall provide ongoing
advice and recommendations regarding in-home supportive services to the
county’s Board of Supervisors, any administrative body in the county that is
related to the delivery and administration of in-home supportive services, and
the governing body and administrative agency of the Public Authority, non-
profit consortium, contractor and public employees.
(1966 Code, § 5F-5) (Ord. 759, § 2)
§ 3.05.006 CHARACTER OF THE AUTHORITY.
   The San Benito County IHSS Public Authority shall be both of the following:
   (A)   An entity separate and distinct from the County of San Benito, and
shall be required to file the statement required by Cal. Gov’t Code § 53051;
and
   (B)   A corporate public body, exercising public and essential governmental
functions, that has all the powers necessary or convenient to carry out the
delivery of in-home supportive services in San Benito County, including the
power to contract for services pursuant to Cal. Welfare and Institutions Code
§§ 12302 and 12303.
(1966 Code, § 5F-6) (Ord. 759, § 2)
§ 3.05.007 EMPLOYEES.
   Employees of the San Benito County In-Home Supportive Services Public
Authority and providers shall not be deemed to be employees of the County of
San Benito for any purpose.
(1966 Code, § 5F-7) (Ord. 759, § 2)
§ 3.05.008 PUBLIC AUTHORITY FUNCTIONS.
   The San Benito County IHSS Public Authority shall carry out the following
functions to implement the goals and objectives of Cal. Welfare and
Institutions Code § 12301.6, including, but not limited to:
   (A)   The provision of assistance to recipients in finding in-home
supportive services personnel through the establishment of a registry;
   (B)   The investigation of the qualifications and backgrounds of potential
in-home supportive services personnel;
   (C)   The establishment of a referral system under which in-home supportive
services personnel shall be referred to recipients;
   (D)   The provision for training for providers and recipients; however, the
Authority shall not be obligated to provide training directly, to pay for
training provided privately or in the community, to pay for the providers’ time
spent in training, to accompany recipients to training, to pay for
transportation to training or to pay for any materials required by the
training. The Authority shall not be obligated to ensure that any provider or
recipient attend or complete any training;
   (E)   The performance of any other functions related to the delivery of in-
home supportive services including that, within 30 days of commencement of the
operation of the Public Authority, the Public Authority shall develop a written
process to address consumer complaints regarding Public Authority services;
   (F)   The assurance that the requirements of the personal care option
pursuant to Subarticle 19, commencing with § 1396, of Chapter 7 of Title 42 of
the United States Code are met;
   (G)   The adoption of rules and regulations for the administration of the
Public Authority consistent with the provisions of this article; and
   (H)   The exercise of all powers, duties and functions as are prescribed by
statute, ordinance of the Board of Supervisors and the Authority.
(1966 Code, § 5F-8) (Ord. 759, § 2)
§ 3.05.009 COUNTY RESPONSIBILITIES.
   The county shall retain the exclusive responsibility to determine recipient
eligibility for IHSS, as set forth in the inter-agency agreement with county.
(1966 Code, § 5F-9) (Ord. 759, § 2)
§ 3.05.010 PUBLIC AUTHORITY POWERS.
   (A)   The Authority shall be a corporate public body, exercising public and
essential governmental functions with all powers necessary and convenient to
carry out the powers conferred upon it by Cal. Welfare and Institutions Code §§
12300 et seq. and this article including the power to contract for services
pursuant to Cal. Welfare and Institutions Code §§ 12302 and 12302.1, subject to
any limitations set forth in this article.
   (B)   The Authority shall have the power, in its own name, to do any of the
following:
      (1)   To contract for the services of planners, financial consultants,
and other experts and, separate and apart therefrom, to employ such other
persons as it deems necessary;
      (2)   To sue and be sued in its own name;
      (3)   To incur debts, liabilities or obligations subject to any
limitations herein set forth;
      (4)   To apply for, accept and receive state, federal or local licenses,
permits, grants loans or other aid from any agency of the United States of
America or of the State of California necessary for the authority’s full
exercise of its powers; and
      (5)   To perform all acts necessary and proper to carry out fully the
purpose of this article and not inconsistent with Cal. Welfare and Institutions
Code §§ 12300 et seq. or this article.
(1966 Code, § 5F-10) (Ord. 759, § 2)
§ 3.05.011 PUBLIC AUTHORITY; COUNTY AGREEMENT.
   Prior to initiating delivery of IHSS through the Authority, as described in
this article, the county and the Authority shall enter into an interagency
agreement specifying the purpose, scope or nature of the agreement, the roles
and responsibilities of each party including provisions which ensure compliance
with all applicable federal, state and local laws and regulations including but
not limited to all statutory and regulatory provisions applicable to the
delivery of IHSS, and federal and state labor laws.
(1966 Code, § 5F-11) (Ord. 759, § 2)
§ 3.05.012 PUBLIC AUTHORITY EMPLOYMENT FUNCTIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of labor negotiations, wages, benefits and other terms
of employment, the In-home Supportive Services Public Authority for San Benito
County shall be deemed to be the employer of in-home supportive services
personnel within the meaning of Cal. Gov’t Code Chapter 10 (commencing with §
3500) of Division 4 of Title I. Recipients shall retain the right to hire, fire
and supervise the work of any in-home supportive services personnel providing
services to them.
   (B)   In order to assure the preservation of the individual provider mode
and limit the liability of the authority, recipients retain the right to
select, terminate and supervise the work of any in-home supportive services
personnel providing services to them, and the authority shall have no authority
or jurisdiction to regulate, control or limit the rights and responsibilities
of recipients of in-home supportive services to hire fire or to supervise
providers. The right to supervise includes, but is not limited to, the right to
determine matters such as work schedules, tasks and duties, assignments and
direction of work, methods and standards of caring and conduct, discipline,
provisions for safety and security control of premises, any in-home living or
other accommodations, and final resolution of concerns, problems and complaints
relating to the supervision. Recipients retain the rights and responsibilities
independent of the authority, just as they held the rights and responsibilities
independent of the county prior to the formation of the authority.
(1966 Code, § 5F-12) (Ord. 759, § 2)
§ 3.05.013 RECIPIENT SELECTION OF PROVIDERS.
   Recipients of in-home supportive services may select in-home supportive
services personnel who are not referred to them by the Authority. Those
personnel shall nevertheless be referred to the Authority for the purposes of
wages, benefits and other terms and conditions of employment. The Public
Authority shall not be held liable for any action or omission of any provider
whom the Public Authority did not list on a registry or otherwise refer to a
recipient.
(1966 Code, § 5F-13) (Ord. 759, § 2)
§ 3.05.014 STATE RESPONSIBILITIES.
   The creation and operation of the In-Home Supportive Services Authority for
San Benito County shall not alter, require the alteration of or interfere with
the state payroll system and other provisions of Cal. Welfare and Institutions
Code § 12302.2 for individual providers of in-home supportive services, or
affect the state’s responsibility with respect to unemployment insurance or
worker’s compensation for providers of in-home supportive services.
(1966 Code, § 5F-14) (Ord. 759, § 2)
§ 3.05.015 AUTHORITY ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   There shall be a manager of the Public Authority who shall be
appointed by and serve at the pleasure of the Public Authority Board.
   (B)   The Manager may hire appoint and/or contract for all other Authority
employees subject to the approval of the Authority.
   (C)   Officers, officials, employees, agents and volunteers of the Public
Authority shall not be deemed to be officers, officials, employees, agents or
volunteers of the county for any purpose.
(1966 Code, § 5F-15) (Ord. 759, § 2)
§ 3.05.016 LABOR RELATIONS.
   (A)   In-home supportive services personnel shall be entitled to all of the
rights conferred upon them by the Meyers Milias-Brown Act (Cal. Gov’t Code §§
3500 et seq.), including the right to be represented in their employment
relationship with the Authority by an employee organization of their choice,
and the right to meet and confer with the Authority with regard to wages
benefits and other terms and conditions of employment.
   (B)   Subject to the provisions of division (C) of this section, the
Authority Board shall establish such rules, policies and regulations for
administration of employer-employee relations relating to IHSS providers.
   (C)   Due to the special and critical health-care services provided through
the IHSS program, the San Benito County Board of Supervisors hereby finds that
any interruption of the services would pose an imminent threat to the health
and safety of the recipients of IHSS services and to the community. In order to
minimize the likelihood of the interruption and thereby protect the health and
safety and to promote harmony and productive labor relations between the Public
Authority and any labor organization which seeks to represent or represents
IHSS providers or Public Authority personnel:
      (1)   The Authority shall have a non-strike clause in any and all
collective bargaining agreements with IHSS providers and with personnel of the
authority. The non-strike clause shall continue at least one year beyond the
other provisions of any and all collective bargaining agreements as it deems
necessary or appropriate and are consistent with federal, state and local laws
and regulations.
      (2)   Any collective bargaining agreement reached between the authority
and any labor organization certified to represent IHSS providers shall be
subject to the limitations of this article and to ratification in its entirety
(i.e., all provisions of such agreements shall be subject to the same vote) by
a simple majority of the votes cast in a ballot in which all providers, as
defined by the Authority Board, shall be eligible to participate. Final
adoption of any such agreement shall be by a simple majority vote of the
Authority Board.
(1966 Code, § 5F-16) (Ord. 759, § 2)
§ 3.05.017 FISCAL PROVISIONS.
   In establishing the Authority, the Board of Supervisors recognizes that the
funding of IHSS is the product of a complex relationship of federal, state and
county financing, and that the ability of the authority to operate and to
negotiate the wages and benefits of the providers of IHSS is contingent upon
the availability of adequate funding.
   (A)   Nothing in this article is intended to require the county to
appropriate or to transfer any funds for the operation of the authority or for
the payment of wages or benefits for in-home supportive services personnel,
except as expressly provided in an agreement between the authority and the
county, and the funds necessary to fund any obligation of the county has been
appropriately provided for in the county’s annual budget or in an amendment to
the annual budget.
   (B)   The establishment and operation of the Public Authority or application
of Cal. Gov’t Code §§ 3500 et seq. shall not result in payments from the
county’s general fund beyond the county’s annual appropriation for the Public
Authority, if any, which shall be an absolute limit on county cost.
   (C)   The total of all administrative costs, wages and benefits proposed or
established by the Authority shall be consistent with the provisions of the
county budget and shall not provide for any payments promulgated or calculated
from or based on contributions or payments from the county in excess of the
amounts expressly provided for in the county’s annual budget or the county’s
annual budget as it may be amended from time to time. The Authority shall not
establish a payment rate, including costs of wages, benefits and operation
until the Public Authority determines that the funds necessary for the payment
rate are legally available.
   (D)   The Authority shall not agree to, or approve, any collective
bargaining or other agreement that requires an increase in wages or benefits
unless there is a state or federal match for the increases.
   (E)   IHSS services shall not be reduced in order to fund the Public
Authority or to provide for the implementation of Cal. Gov’t Code §§ 3500 et
seq.
   (F)   The Public Authority shall utilize any and all available start-up
funds and shall seek to maximize the benefit of any available new on increased
non-county matching federal or state funds or other available grant or
foundation funds.
   (G)   The Public Authority shall adopt its budget under the same laws, rules
and policies that control the county budget process.
   (H)   The authority shall provide the county with the expenditure
information necessary for the county to report to the California Department of
Social Services in order to receive reimbursement for the state and federal
share of the Authority costs.
   (I)   The Authority shall assist the county in developing and submitting the
information and documentation necessary to obtain approval from the California
Department of Social Services and the Department of Health Services for the
Authority’s reimbursement rate and any rate adjustment.
   (J)   Payment for all services provided pursuant to this article is
contingent upon the appropriation of county, state and federal funds for the
purpose of providing IHSS.
(1966 Code, § 5F-17) (Ord. 759, § 2)
§ 3.05.018 LIABILITY.
   (A)   No county liability. The County of San Benito shall be immune from any
liability resulting from the administration of the IHSS program pursuant to
this article or Cal. Welfare and Institutions Code § 12301.6 and from the
implementation of this article or Cal. Welfare and Institutions Code § 12301.6.
   (B)   Public Authority liability. Any obligation of the Public Authority,
whether statutory, contractual or otherwise, shall be the sole obligation of
the authority and shall not be the obligation of the county. Any and all
contracts leases, or other agreements of any nature, including collective
bargaining agreements between the Public Authority and third parties other than
the county shall contain an express provision advising the third party that the
Public Authority is a separate governmental entity and that the agreement does
not bind the county. The third party must be further advised that obliges of
the authority may not seek recourse against the County of San Benito for any
financial or legal obligation of the Authority.
   (C)   No employer liability for torts of referred personnel. The Public
Authority shall not be deemed to be an employer for the purposes of liability
due to the negligence or intentional acts of any IHSS provider referred to
recipients pursuant to this article.
   (D)   No liability for acts or omissions of non-referred providers. The
Public Authority shall not be held liable for any action or omission of any
provider whom the Public Authority did not list on a registry or otherwise
refer to a recipient.
   (E)   Public Authority insurance. Without limiting its indemnification of
the county, the Authority shall maintain insurance in amounts and coverage
determined to be adequate by the county’s Risk Manager and shall name the
county, its elected and appointed officers, employees and agents as additional
insureds on any policies of insurance maintained by the Public Authority.
Evidence of such insurance shall be provided to the county’s Risk Manager
within 30 days of the execution of the agreement between the Authority and the
county and shall be regularly provided thereafter.
   (F)   Indemnification by Public Authority. The Authority shall indemnify,
defend and hold harmless the county and its special districts, elected and
appointed officers, employees and agents from and against any and all
liability, including defense costs and legal fees, and claims for damages of
any nature whatsoever, including but not limited to personal injury or property
damage arising from, or connected with, any action or omission of any officer
on employee of the Authority.
   (G)   Indemnification and insurance required of contractors. The Authority
shall require all third parties with whom it contracts, other than the County
of San Benito to indemnify and hold harmless the Authority, to provide the
authority with written acknowledgment of such indemnification and to maintain
adequate levels of insurance, as determined by the county’s Risk Manager,
naming the Authority as an additional insured.
(1966 Code, § 5F-18) (Ord. 759, § 2)
§ 3.05.019 SEVERABILITY.
   If any section, division, sentence, clause or phrase of this article is for
any reason held by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid, the
decision shall not affect the validity of the remaining portion of this
article. The Board of Supervisors declares that it would have passed this
article and each section, division, sentence, clause or phrase thereof
irrespective of the fact that any one section, division, sentence, clause or
phrase be declared invalid.
(1966 Code, § 5F-19) (Ord. 759, § 2)
§ 3.05.020 RECORDS RETENTION AND REPORTING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Records retention. The Authority shall develop a records retention
policy consistent with county, state and federal laws and policies. The
Authority shall make any of the retained records available to all authorized
county, state and federal representatives.
   (B)   Annual report. The Authority shall submit annually a report to the
Board of Supervisors detailing its functions and evaluating its operation of
that year. In addition, the report shall present the Authority’s specific goals
and objectives for the coming year and its plan for meeting those goals and
objectives. If, for any coming year, the Authority intends to expand its
duties, the Authority shall present a detailed plan and budget for the
implementation of that expansion of duties. The plan shall be circulated to all
interested county departments and community groups prior to presentation to the
Board of Supervisors.
(1966 Code, § 5F-20) (Ord. 759, § 2)
§ 3.05.021 CESSATION OF AUTHORITY.
   By repeal of this article, the Board of Supervisors may abolish the
Authority.
(1966 Code, § 5F-21) (Ord. 759, § 2)
ARTICLE II. INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
§ 3.05.035 PURPOSE.
   The California Industrial Development Financing Act, Cal. Gov’t Code Title
10 (commencing with § 91500), (the “Act”), has established an industrial
development authority of this county for the achievement of specified public
purposes. The public purposes are to increase opportunities for useful
employment or otherwise contribute to economic development. The need for the
establishment of an industrial development authority in the achievement of such
purposes is based upon the findings that industry requires the new and
alternative method of capital finance that the authorities can provide in order
for it to undertake the acquisition, construction or rehabilitation of
facilities the use of which will serve those public purposes.
(1966 Code, § 13C-1) (Ord. 487, § 1)
§ 3.05.036 FINDINGS.
   There is a need in the County of San Benito for the acquisition,
construction or rehabilitation of facilities for the use of industry which will
increase employment opportunities or otherwise contribute to economic
development, and further, the new and alternative method of capital finance
that industrial development authorities can provide will aid in satisfying that
need.
(1966 Code, § 13C-2) (Ord. 487, § 2)
§ 3.05.037 DECLARATIONS.
   (A)   Need. There is a need in the County of San Benito for an industrial
development authority to provide industry with an alternative and additional
method of finance in accordance with state policy as set forth in the Act.
   (B)   Organization. The Industrial Development Authority of the county
established by the Act is hereby declared organized and shall function under
the name “Industrial Development Authority of the County of San Benito” and be
authorized to transact business and exercise all of the powers and other
authority conferred upon industrial development authorities by the Act.
(1966 Code, § 13C-3) (Ord. 487, § 3)
ARTICLE III. PLANNING COMMISSION
§ 3.05.050 ESTABLISHMENT; COMPOSITION; COMPENSATION.
   (A)   There is hereby established a planning commission for San Benito
County. The Planning Commission shall consist of five members who shall be
appointed by the Board of Supervisors, one for each Supervisorial District. For
any appointments after July 1, 2011, the Planning Commissioner shall reside,
when appointed and during the term of the appointment, in the supervisorial
district of the nominating supervisor. The appointment of each Commissioner
shall be recommended by the respective supervisor from that District who shall
place the name of his or her candidate in nomination. The appointment must be
confirmed by a majority vote of the Board of Supervisors.
   (B)   All present members of the Planning Commission shall be entitled to
serve until the end of their respective terms. Thereafter, the term of office
of each Commissioner shall be coterminous with that of the duly elected
supervisor by whom the Commissioner is nominated for appointment. If a vacancy
occurs on the Planning Commission other than by expiration of term, it shall be
filled in a manner consistent with this section by appointment for the
unexpired portion of the prior Commissioner’s term.
   (C)   The Planning Commission shall elect a chairperson and a vice-
chairperson from among its members to serve for a term of one year and may
elect other officials and representatives as the Commission deems necessary.
   (D)   The members of the Planning Commission may be compensated in a sum to
be fixed by the Board of Supervisors.
(1966 Code, § 2-12) (Ord. 484, (part); Ord. 871, § 1, 2011)
Cross-reference:
   Airport Zoning, see
Chapter 19.03 of this code
   Subdivisions, see Title 23 of this code
   Zoning, see Title 25 of this code
Statutory reference:
   Requirement that county establish a planning commission, see Cal. Gov’t Code
§ 65100
§ 3.05.051 MEETINGS; DUTIES; OPERATION.
   (A)   The Planning Commission shall hold at least one regular meeting each
month and it shall adopt rules of procedure for the transaction of business.
The Commission shall cause records to be kept of its proceedings, resolutions,
transactions, findings and determinations. The records of the Planning
Commission shall be available to the public.
   (B)   (1)   It shall be the duty of the Planning Commission to make a
recommendation to the Board of Supervisors regarding any proposed master or
general plan for the physical development of the county.
      (2)   Additionally, the Planning Commission shall perform those planning
and zoning duties specified by state law or county ordinance, including, but
not limited to, the duties related to legislative matters and the duties
related to quasi-judicial matters and appeals thereof.
      (3)   The Planning Commission shall have such further duties and
responsibilities as may be assigned to it from time to time by the Board of
Supervisors.
      (4)   It may contract for services, subject to the provisions of law,
provided that all expenditures of the Commission shall be within amounts
appropriated by the Board of Supervisors. It shall serve in an advisory
capacity to the Board of Supervisors and shall perform such other functions as
the Board of Supervisors may request or provide.
   (C)   The San Benito County Planning Department shall assist and advise the
Planning Commission as directed by the Board of Supervisors. The assistance and
advice shall include, but not be limited to, the provision of staff and
resources to enable the Commission to function, operate and transact such
business as may be addressed to the Commission.
(1966 Code, § 2-13) (Ord. 484, (part); Ord. 875, § 1, 2011)
ARTICLE IV. MEMORIAL PARK COMMISSION
§ 3.05.065 ESTABLISHED; COMPOSITION.
   A Memorial Park Commission is hereby established to consist of five members.
(1966 Code, § 2-19) (Ord. 167-1/2, § 4)
Editor’s note:
   Ord. 167-1/2 from which the material in this article was derived was
approved by the qualified electors of the county at a general election held on
November 7, 1950.
§ 3.05.066 APPOINTMENT AND TERMS OF OFFICE OF MEMBERS.
   The Memorial Park Commission shall consist of two members of the Board of
Supervisors to be appointed by the Chairperson of the Board of Supervisors to
hold office at pleasure of the Board, and one representative from each of the
three veterans’ organizations of the county to be elected to the Memorial Park
Commission by a vote of the membership of the Veterans’ Council of the county
and to hold office at the pleasure of the organizations represented in the
county’s Veterans’ Council.
(1966 Code, § 2-20) (Ord. 167-1/2, § 4)
§ 3.05.067 POWERS AND DUTIES; MEETINGS; REPORTS.
   The Memorial Park Commission shall have general supervision and control of
the development, maintenance and management of the Veterans’ Memorial Park of
the county, including the administration of all business affairs in connection
therewith and the hiring and discharging of keepers, gardeners and other
employees necessary or convenient for the proper management and care of the
Veterans’ Memorial Park; and they shall have control over the disposition and
expenditures of all money received from any source whatsoever in connection
with the park including the disposition and expenditure of any funds, public or
otherwise, that may be appropriated for the development, maintenance, repairs
and management of the park. The Memorial Park Commission shall hold regular
meetings for the transaction of business. The Memorial Park Commission shall
submit a written report to the Board of Supervisors quarterly, at the first
regular meeting of the Board of Supervisors in January, April, July and
September.
(1966 Code, § 2-21) (Ord. 167-1/2, § 4)
§ 3.05.068 VETERANS’ MEMORIAL PARK.
   The following described real property is accepted on behalf of the county as
a living memorial to the veterans of the county upon the conditions, and for
the purposes, set forth in this section.
   (A)   That certain real property situate in the county lying and being a
portion of Homestead Lot 35 of the Rancho San Justo according to the map
thereof recorded in Book 1 of Maps, San Benito County Records, and more
particularly the parcels thereof described as follows:
      (1)   Parcel One. Beginning at a point in the center line of the
Hillcrest Road distant thereon S. 87° 00' E. 18.115 chains from the corner
common to Lots 26, 27, 34, and 35; thence, from such point of beginning S. 2°
21' W. 19.627 chains to an iron pipe; thence N. 87° 04' W. 10.193 chains to an
iron pipe; thence N. 2° 21' E. 19.64 chains to a point in the center line of
the Hillcrest Road; thence along such center line S. 87° 00' W. 10.193 chains
to the point of beginning.
      (2)   Parcel Two. Beginning at a point in the westerly line of land of
William F. Renz distant thereon N. 2° 55' E. 842.88 feet from the common corner
to lands of said Renz and Loofbourrow in the center line of Sunnyslope Road at
a point distant thereon S. 87° 00' E. 318.32 feet from the southwesterly corner
of such Lot 35; thence from such point of beginning along the westerly line of
such land of Renz N. 2° 55' E. 965.10 feet to the most northwesterly corner
thereof; thence along the northerly line thereof S. 86° 32' E. 256.21 feet;
thence along the easterly line thereof S. 2° 55' W. 965.10 feet; thence No. 86°
32' W. 256.21 feet to the point of beginning.
      (3)   Parcel Three. Beginning at a point in the center line of Sunnyslope
Road at the corner common to lands of Wm. F. Renz and Loofbourrow and distant
along such center line S. 87° 00' E. 318.32 feet from the most southwesterly
corner of such Lot 35; thence along the line common to lands of Loofbourrow and
Renz, N. 2°55' E. 842.88 feet; thence S. 86° 32' E. 60.00 feet; thence S. 2°
55' W. 842.39 feet to the center line of Sunnyslope Road; thence along such
center line N. 87° 00' W. 60.00 feet to the point of beginning.
      (4)   Parcel Four. Beginning at a point in the line common to land of
Mrs. Renz and Lima distant along such line N. 2° 55' E. 835.80 feet from the
common corner to such lands in the center line of the Sunnyslope Road being
distant along such center line S. 87° 00' E. 1,187.00 feet from the most
southwesterly corner of such Lot 38; thence from such point of beginning along
the line common to such lands N. 2° 55' E. 965.10 feet to the most northerly
corner thereof; thence along the northerly line of land of Mrs. Renz N. 86° 32'
W. 610.60 feet to the most northwesterly corner thereof; thence along the
westerly line thereof S. 2° 55' W. 965.10 feet; thence S. 86° 32' E. 610.60
feet to the point of beginning.
   (B)   The property shall be developed and maintained as a public park and
playground to be known as “Veterans’ Memorial Park of San Benito County” under
the supervision of the Memorial Park Commission.
   (C)   The property shall be held by the county for such purposes unless it
shall be determined by the Memorial Park Commission that the property is no
longer of any use for the purposes intended, and the Commission recommends to
the Board of Supervisors that the property be disposed of, and if a four-fifths
majority of the Board of Supervisors shall concur in the recommendation and the
judge of the Superior Court of the state, in and for the county approves the
recommendation, then the property may be disposed of, the proceeds to be used
only for another project having the same purpose.
(1966 Code, § 2-22) (Ord. 167-1/2, § 4)
§ 3.05.069 REGULATION OF VENDORS; FINDINGS.
   (A)   It is desirable to establish regulations requiring vendors at
Veterans’ Memorial Park to obtain franchise agreements to sell food or goods
and to set fees thereof.
   (B)   The Board of Supervisors finds as follows:
      (1)   Persons desire to sell food or goods at Veterans’ Memorial Park to
park users. Regulations are needed to govern the sale of food or goods at
Veterans’ Memorial Park to control the amount and type of items sold and to
protect the public.
      (2)   The fees established under this article shall be used to accumulate
revenue and defray costs for development and maintenance of Veterans’ Memorial
Park.
      (3)   The fees specified in this article represent reasonable amounts
that do not exceed the cost of providing the development and maintenance of
Veterans’ Memorial Park.
(1966 Code, § 2-23) (Ord. 741, § 1(part))
§ 3.05.070 FRANCHISE AGREEMENTS FOR SALES AT VETERANS’ PARK.
   (A)   Definitions. For purposes of this article, the following words and
phrases shall have the meanings respectively ascribed to them by this section.
      FOOD. Any item for human consumption. For purposes of this article, FOOD
shall include any type of beverage.
      PERSON. Any individual, group of individuals, firm, corporation,
association, partnership or any other type of business entity, whether for
profit, non-profit, charitable or philanthropic.
      SERVICES. Any activity performed for a fee. This shall include the rental
of goods to persons.
   (B)   Requirement for franchise agreement. It shall be unlawful for any
person to sell food, goods or services at Veterans’ Memorial Park unless that
person has been granted a franchise to sell food, goods or services at
Veterans’ Memorial Park, or unless that person is exempt from the sales
franchise requirement.
   (C)   Non-exclusive franchise. The Board shall approve by written resolution
from time to time a non- exclusive franchise agreement authorizing the sales of
food or goods or services at Veterans’ Memorial Park. Following the approval of
an agreement, the Veterans’ Park Commission shall be authorized to execute such
an agreement with any person desiring to sell food or goods at Veterans’
Memorial Park. The execution of the franchise agreement shall create a
franchise. The Board may, from time to time, adopt any regulations governing
the issuance of sales franchises for Veterans’ Memorial Park.
   (D)   Terms of franchise agreement.
      (1)   The franchise agreement shall provide for a term not to exceed one
year.
      (2)   The franchise agreement shall provide for a franchise fee. The
Board shall adopt a franchise fee by written resolution from time to time. The
fee, when adopted, shall become and thereafter be a part of this article.
      (3)   The franchise agreement shall provide for payment of the franchise
fee upon submission of a franchise agreement to the Veterans’ Commission.
      (4)   The franchise agreement may require a bond as an undertaking to
insure compliance with this article and with other requirements imposed by law.
      (5)   The franchise agreement shall require that any person entering into
a franchise agreement for purposes of selling food, goods or services at
Veterans’ Memorial Park shall comply with all applicable federal state, and
local laws and ordinances, and to show proof thereof.
      (6)   The franchise agreement may provide for collection of the franchise
fee by the Veterans Memorial Park Commission.
   (E)   Administration of franchise agreement. The Veterans’ Park Commission
shall administer the issuance of franchise agreements pursuant to this article.
The Veterans Park Commission shall have the authority to revoke any franchise
agreement of any person who violates this article, or any term contained within
the franchise agreement subject to an appeal to the Board of Supervisors.
   (F)   Compliance with franchise agreement. A person operating under a
franchise agreement as specified above shall comply with all conditions
specified in the franchise agreement and all provisions of this article.
(1966 Code, § 2-24) (Ord. 741, § 1(part))
§ 3.05.071 PAYMENT OF FEES FOR USE OF FIELDS.
   (A)   Consistent with §
3.05.067 of this article, the Veterans’ Park Commission shall provide for
payment of fees for use of the ball fields, when the fees are adopted by the
Board of Supervisors.
   (B)   The requirement for payment of fees for use of the ball fields shall
not apply to the following organizations: Hollister Babe Ruth, Hollister Little
League, Hollister Tremors and Hollister Heat.
(1966 Code, § 2-25) (Ord. 741, § 1(part))
§ 3.05.072 PENALTIES.
   (A)   Violation of chapter; public nuisance. The violation of any provision
of this article or of any provision of any franchise agreement authorized under
this article is unlawful and is a public nuisance. The violation shall be
abated, eliminated and enjoined as provided in
Chapter 1.03 of the San Benito County Code.
   (B)   Violation of chapter; criminal. Any person violating any provision of
this article shall be guilty of an infraction and, upon conviction thereof,
shall be punished as provided in
Chapter 1.03 of the San Benito County Code.
   (C)   Remedies cumulative. Except as otherwise provided by law, the remedies
provided in this article are cumulative and not exclusive. Nothing in this
article is intended, or shall be deemed or construed, to limit or impair the
ability of the county, or any of its officers, agents or employees to take any
administrative or judicial action, otherwise authorized by law, to abate any
public nuisance.
Chapter 1.03 of this code is hereby incorporated by reference as though its
provisions were fully set forth herein.
(1966 Code, § 2-26) (Ord. 741, § 1(part))
ARTICLE V. JUVENILE HOME AND DELINQUENCY PREVENTION COMMISSION
§ 3.05.085 JUVENILE HOME; ESTABLISHED; USE; OPERATION.
   (A)   There is hereby established a juvenile home on the property of the
county known as the county hospital grounds.
   (B)   The property, and the building thereon, is to be designated, and
established in conjunction with the Probation Department of the county as a
home to be used exclusively for the commitment, care and education of wards of
the Juvenile Court who would otherwise be committed by the Juvenile Court to
the youth authority for placement in a correctional school.
   (C)   The juvenile home shall not constitute any part of the detention
system of the county and shall be administered, operated and maintained in
accordance with the provisions of Cal. Welfare and Institutions Code Article
15, Chapter 2, Part 1, Division 2.
(1966 Code, § 2-38) (Ord. 163, §§ 1 to 3)
Statutory reference:
   Juvenile homes, see Cal. Welfare and Institutions Code §§ 880 to 892
§ 3.05.086 SAME; ESTABLISHMENT AND MAINTENANCE OF SCHOOL.
   (A)   The county’s Superintendent of Schools is hereby directed to establish
and maintain a public school in the juvenile home of the county, to consist of
such grades as may be, in the judgment of the county’s Superintendent of
Schools, necessary.
   (B)   The school shall be maintained subject to, and in accordance with, all
laws relating to schools maintained by a county superintendent of schools in a
detention home Cal. Welfare and Institutions Code Article 14 of Chapter 2, of
Part 1, of Division 2.
(1966 Code, § 2-39) (Ord. 164, §§ 1, 2)
§ 3.05.087 DELINQUENCY PREVENTION COMMISSION; ESTABLISHED.
   Pursuant to Cal. Welfare and Institutions Code § 233, a delinquency
prevention commission is hereby established in the county.
(1966 Code, § 2-40) (Ord. 251, § 1)
§ 3.05.088 SAME; PURPOSE.
   The purpose of the Commission is to coordinate on a county-wide basis the
work of governmental and non-governmental organizations engaged in activities
designed to prevent juvenile delinquency.
(1966 Code, § 2-41) (Ord. 251, § 2)
§ 3.05.089 SAME; MEMBERSHIP.
   The members of the Juvenile Justice Commission of the county shall
constitute the members of, and serve as, the Delinquency Prevention Commission.
(1966 Code, § 2-42) (Ord. 251, § 3)
ARTICLE VI. FISH AND GAME ADVISORY COMMISSION
§ 3.05.100 CREATION.
   The Fish and Game Advisory Commission is established under the authority of
Cal. Gov’t Code § 31000.1.
(1966 Code, § 2-43) (Ord. 379, § 1(part))
§ 3.05.101 MEMBERSHIP.
   The Commission shall consist of ten members, residents of the county each of
whom shall be familiar with fish and game within the county and appointed by
the Board of Supervisors. Each Supervisor shall nominate two persons who may
reside within the Supervisor’s district to serve on the Commission.
(1966 Code, § 2-44) (Ord. 379, § 1(part))
§ 3.05.102 TERMS OF OFFICE.
   Each member shall serve for a term of four years commencing on April 1 of
the year in which the member’s nominating supervisor begins a full term.
(1966 Code, § 2-45) (Ord. 379, § 1(part))
§ 3.05.103 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Commission shall make written recommendations, consistent with the
policies and regulations of the California Department of Fish and Game, to the
Board of Supervisors concerning expenditures from the county’s Fish and Game
Propagation Fund, the fund created by Cal. Fish and Game Code §§ 13003(b) and
13100, for the propagation and conservation of fish and game and other wildlife
in this county and for educational and youth activities relating to fish and
game. The Commission may advise the Board of Supervisors on any matters
pertaining to fish and game in the county.
(1966 Code, § 2-46) (Ord. 379, § 1(part))
§ 3.05.104 ORGANIZATION AND PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Budget. The Administrative Secretary and the County Auditor shall
annually prepare a proposed estimate of anticipated revenue and expenditures,
with the advice of the Commission, to be submitted to the Board of Supervisors
during the county’s budget hearings.
   (B)   Expenditures by Commission. No expenditures or requisitions for
services and supplies shall be made, and no claims for reimbursement shall be
submitted for payment, without the approval of a majority of the members of the
Commission. The Secretary of the Commission shall be responsible for preparing
and processing all expenditures, requisitions and claim.
   (C)   Organization of Commission. The Clerk of the Board of Supervisors
shall be ex officio secretary of the Commission and shall be responsible for
providing secretarial assistance to the Commission.
(1966 Code, § 2-47) (Ord. 379, § 1(part))
ARTICLE VII. CHILD ABUSE PREVENTION COUNCIL
§ 3.05.120 FINDINGS AND PURPOSE.
   The San Benito County Board of Supervisors finds as follows.
   (A)   The legislature of the State of California enacted the Child Abuse
Prevention Coordinating Council Act in 1989 with the intent to fund child abuse
prevention coordinating councils in each county. The legislature found and
declared the following:
      (1)   Child abuse is one of the most tragic social and criminal justice
issues of our times;
      (2)   Victims of child abuse and their families face a complex
intervention system involving many professionals and agencies;
      (3)   Coordination by child protection agencies and personnel improves
the response to a victim and his or her family; and
      (4)   The prevention of child abuse requires the involvement of the
entire community.
   (B)   It is the intent of this article to facilitate the establishment and
implementation of a child abuse prevention council to coordinate the
community’s efforts to prevent and respond to child abuse in San Benito County.
   (C)   It is the further intent of this article to establish the Child Abuse
Prevention Council of San Benito County to implement the goals and objectives
outlined in the Child Abuse Prevention Coordinating Council Act of 1989. The
Child Abuse Prevention Coordinating Council Act provides for funding of the
established Council from the county’s Children’s Trust Fund.
(1966 Code, § 37-1) (Ord. 786, § 1(part))
§ 3.05.121 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this article, the following terms shall have the
meanings ascribed to them in this section.
   ACT. The Child Abuse Prevention Coordinating Council Act of 1989.
   CHILD ABUSE PREVENTION COUNCIL OF SAN BENITO COUNTY or COUNCIL. The Council
established in accordance with Cal. Welfare and Institutions Code § 18983.4.
   TRUST FUND. The county’s Children’s Trust Fund.
(1966 Code, § 37-2) (Ord. 786, § 1(part))
§ 3.05.122 ESTABLISHMENT OF COUNCIL.
   There is established a council to be known as the Child Abuse Prevention
Council of San Benito County.
(1966 Code, § 37-3) (Ord. 786, § 1(part))
§ 3.05.123 MEMBERSHIP.
   The Council shall encourage representatives from the following categories:
   (A)   Public child welfare services, including the following:
      (1)   The county’s Welfare or Children’s Services Department;
      (2)   The Probation Department; and
      (3)   Licensing agencies.
   (B)   The criminal justice system, including the following:
      (1)   Law enforcement;
      (2)   The Office of the District Attorney;
      (3)   The courts; and
      (4)   The Coroner.
   (C)   Prevention and treatment services communities, including the
following:
      (1)   Medical and mental health services;
      (2)   Community-based social services; and
      (3)   Public and private schools.
   (D)   Community representatives, including the following:
      (1)   Community volunteers;
      (2)   Civic organizations; and
      (3)   The religious community.
(1966 Code, § 37-4) (Ord. 786, § 1(part))
§ 3.05.124 TERMS; APPOINTMENT.
   Council members shall be appointed by the Child Abuse Prevention Council
(CAPC). The term of office of each member shall be for three years until the
appointment of his or her successor.
(1966 Code, § 37-5) (Ord. 786, § 1(part))
§ 3.05.125 INITIAL TERMS; STAGGERED.
   The initial terms of office of Council members (former Child Welfare
Commission members) shall be staggered. At the first meeting of the Council,
members shall classify themselves by lot so that some members shall have a term
of office of one year, some members shall have a term of office of two years,
and some members shall have a term of office of three years.
(1966 Code, § 37-6) (Ord. 786, § 1(part))
§ 3.05.126 VACANCIES AND REMOVAL.
   (A)   A vacancy on the Council shall occur automatically on the happening of
any of the following events before the expiration of the term:
      (1)   Removal of the incumbent for any reason;
      (2)   Death or resignation of the incumbent;
      (3)   Ceasing to meet any of the criteria for membership as specified in
§
3.05.123 of this article; or
      (4)   Absence from three regular or special meetings in any 12-month
period.
   (B)   The Secretary of the Council shall certify the happening of any
vacating event to the Council. The Council may waive any vacating event for any
member of the Council by majority vote of the Council.
   (C)   The nominating committee of the Council shall make interim
appointments to fill unexpired terms in the event of vacancies occurring during
the term of members of the Council.
(1966 Code, § 37-7) (Ord. 786, § 1(part))
§ 3.05.127 CHAIRPERSON; RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The members of the Council shall mutually elect a chairperson who shall
serve for a term of one year. The Council shall make such rules and regulations
as are necessary to conduct its business.
(1966 Code, § 37-8) (Ord. 786, § 1(part))
§ 3.05.128 COUNCIL SUBJECT TO RALPH M. BROWN ACT.
   The meetings of the Council and the Council’s committees are subject to the
open meeting provisions contained in the Ralph M. Brown Act.
(1966 Code, § 37-9) (Ord. 786, § 1(part))
§ 3.05.129 COMPENSATION.
   The members of the Council shall serve without compensation.
(1966 Code, § 37-10) (Ord. 786, § 1(part))
§ 3.05.130 FUNCTIONS.
   The functions of the Child Abuse Prevention Council shall include, but not
be limited to, the following:
   (A)   To provide a forum for interagency cooperation and coordination in the
prevention, detection, treatment and legal processing of child abuse cases;
   (B)   To promote public awareness of the abuse and neglect of children and
the resources available for intervention and treatment;
   (C)   To encourage and facilitate training of professionals in the
detection, treatment and prevention of child abuse and neglect;
   (D)   To recommend improvements in services to families and victims;
   (E)   To encourage and facilitate community support for child abuse and
neglect programs;
   (F)   To recommend utilization of public or private funds (including
donations) made available to the Child Abuse Prevention Council of San Benito
County and to advise the Board of Supervisors on the selection of child abuse
and neglect prevention and intervention projects, programs, services and
special studies funded through county’s Children’s Trust Fund monies; and
   (G)   The Council shall be designated by the county Board of Supervisors to
receive county’s Children’s Trust Funds which shall be used to fund child abuse
and neglect prevention programs operated by non-profit or public institutions
of higher education with recognized expertise in their fields related to child
welfare.
(1966 Code, § 37-11) (Ord. 786, § 1(part))
§ 3.05.131 COUNCIL COMMITTEES.
   The Council may form committees to carry out specific functions, such as the
following:
   (A)   Interagency coordination committees;
   (B)   Multi-disciplinary personnel teams;
   (C)   Professional training committees;
   (D)   Public awareness committees;
   (E)   Service improvement committees;
   (F)   Advocacy committees; and
   (G)   Fund-raising committees.
(1966 Code, § 37-12) (Ord. 786, § 1(part))
§ 3.05.132 STATEMENT OF ECONOMIC INTEREST.
   (A)   The Child Abuse Prevention Council members shall prepare and file the
statement of economic interest pursuant to the Fair Political Practices Act
(Cal. Gov’t Code §§ 87100 et seq.).
   (B)   Until the county’s Conflict of Interest Code is amended, the Council
members shall complete and file all schedules adopted by the county.
(1966 Code, § 37-13) (Ord. 786, § 1(part))
ARTICLE VIII. PARKS AND RECREATION COMMISSION
§ 3.05.145 ESTABLISHED.
   The San Benito County Parks and Recreation Commission is hereby established
consisting of nine members.
(Ord. 804, § 11D-1; Ord. 850, § 1 (part), 2010)
§ 3.05.146 ADVISORY ROLE.
   The Commission is advisory to the San Benito County Board of Supervisors.
(Ord. 804, § 11D-2; Ord. 850, § 1 (part), 2010)
§ 3.05.147 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of the Commission is to make recommendations to the Board of
Supervisors concerning the following for all current and future county parks,
excepting the Veterans’ Memorial Park:
   (A)   Use of existing county park facilities including the development of
park improvements to the facilities;
   (B)   Need for future park facilities and their location(s);
   (C)   Development of recreational activities and programs at county park
facilities;
   (D)   Use of federal, state and local funds for parks and recreation
facilities and activities;
   (E)   Joint use of park facilities with other agencies;
   (F)   Coordination with federal, state and local parks and recreation
agencies to enhance the use of park facilities throughout the county; and
   (G)   Other issues as deemed appropriate by a majority vote of the Board of
Supervisors.
(Ord. 804, § 11D-3; Ord. 850, § 1 (part), 2010)
§ 3.05.148 MEMBERS.
   (A)   The Commission shall consist of seven members. Each Supervisor shall
recommend one member to be appointed by a majority vote of the Board of
Supervisors. One member shall be recommended by the Memorial Park Commission to
be appointed by a majority vote of the Board of Supervisors. One member shall
be recommended by the San Benito County Historical Society to be appointed by a
majority vote of the Board of Supervisors.
   (B)   Attendance by Commission members at all Commission meetings is vital
to the proper functioning of the Commission. Whenever a member is absent for
three consecutive meetings or has failed to attend a minimum of eight of the
last 12 regularly scheduled monthly meetings, the Chairperson shall notify the
appointing agency of the absences. Then the appointing agency may deem the
member has resigned and appoint a replacement.
(Ord. 804, § 11D-4; Ord. 850, § 1 (part), 2010; Ord. 943, § 1, 2016; Ord. 1037,
§ 1, 2021)
§ 3.05.149 TERM OF MEMBERS.
   The term of the five members appointed by the Board of Supervisors shall be
coterminous with that of the duly elected Supervisor who recommended him or her
for appointment or until a successor is appointed to the Commission, whichever
is later. The member representing the Memorial Park Commission shall serve at
the pleasure of the Memorial Park Commission and the member representing the
San Benito County Historical Society shall serve at the pleasure of the
Historical Society Board of Directors.
(Ord. 804, § 11D-5; Ord. 850, § 1 (part), 2010; Ord. 943, § 2, 2016)
§ 3.05.150 VACANCY.
   Should a vacancy occur, it shall be filled in accordance with §
3.05.148 above.
(Ord. 804, § 11D-6; Ord. 850, § 1 (part), 2010)
§ 3.05.151 COMPENSATION.
   All of the members of the Commission shall serve without compensation.
Members may be reimbursed for actual expenses, including travel, lodging and
meal expenses, incurred while on official business of the Commission which have
been approved by the Board of Supervisors.
(Ord. 804, § 11D-7; Ord. 850, § 1 (part), 2010)
§ 3.05.152 OFFICERS.
   (A)   The Commission shall appoint a chairperson and vice-chairperson by
majority vote of the Commission at the first meeting following July 1 of each
year. The Chairperson shall preside at meetings of the Commission, call special
meetings where necessary, and perform other duties customarily performed by a
chairperson.
   (B)   The Vice-Chairperson shall serve in the absence, inability, or
unwillingness of the Chairperson to act. In the absence of the Chairperson and
Vice-Chairperson, the Commission members shall appoint one of the members to
act as Chairperson pro tempore. When the office of Chairperson or Vice-
Chairperson becomes vacant, the Commission shall elect a successor at the
earliest meeting practicable.
(Ord. 804, § 11D-8; Ord. 850, § 1 (part), 2010)
§ 3.05.153 MEETINGS.
   (A)   The Commission shall convene quarterly, and as more frequently as may
be determined by the Commission or the Chair.
   (B)   Regular meetings of the Parks and Recreation Commission shall be held
at the county seat of the county, in the Board of Supervisors’ Chambers located
at 481 Fourth Street, Hollister. The location of Commission meetings may be
changed by the Commission.
   (C)   The change of location of the regular meeting of the Commission shall
be adopted by ordinance, resolution, bylaw, motion, or other rule required for
the conduct of business by the Parks and Recreation Commission at a regular
meeting of the body.
(Ord. 804, § 11D-9; Ord. 850, § 1 (part), 2010; Ord. 941, § 4(part), 2015)
§ 3.05.154 QUORUM.
   Four members of the Commission shall constitute a quorum for the transaction
of business of the Commission.
(Ord. 804, § 11D-10; Ord. 850, § 1 (part), 2010; Ord. 941, § 3(part), 2015)
§ 3.05.155 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This article shall take effect and be in force 30 days after the date of its
passage and approval. Prior to the expiration of 15 days from the final passage
hereof, the Clerk of the San Benito County Board of Supervisors shall cause
this article to be published in a newspaper of general circulation in the
County of San Benito.
(Ord. 804, § 11D-11; Ord. 850, § 1 (part), 2010)
CHAPTER 3.07: PUBLIC SAFETY DISPATCHER SELECTION AND TRAINING STANDARDS
Section
   
3.07.001   Declaration of desire to qualify for aid
   
3.07.002   Adherence to standards; agreement
   
3.07.003   Ascertainment of adherence to standards
§ 3.07.001 DECLARATION OF DESIRE TO QUALIFY FOR AID.
   The county declares that it desires to qualify to receive aid from the State
of California under the provisions of Cal. Penal Code §§ 13522 and 13525.
(1966 Code, § 12C-1) (Ord. 557, § 1)
§ 3.07.002 ADHERENCE TO STANDARDS; AGREEMENT.
   Pursuant to Cal. Penal Code § 13510(c), the county will adhere to standards
for recruitment and training established by the California Commission on Peace
Officer Standards and Training (POST) for public safety dispatchers.
(1966 Code, § 12C-2) (Ord. 557, § 2)
§ 3.07.003 ASCERTAINMENT OF ADHERENCE TO STANDARDS.
   Pursuant to Cal. Penal Code § 13512, the Commission and its representatives
may make such inquiries, as deemed appropriate by the Commission, to ascertain
that the county’s public safety dispatcher personnel adhere to standards for
selection and training established by the Commission on Peace Officer Standards
and Training.
(1966 Code, § 12C-3) (Ord. 557, § 3)
TITLE 5: FINANCE
   Chapter
      
5.01.   COUNTY FEES
      
5.03.   COUNTY TAXES
      
5.05.   REASSESSMENT OF PROPERTY DAMAGED OR DESTROYED BY MISFORTUNE OR CALAMITY
      
5.07.   PROPERTY TAX ADMINISTRATIVE COST RECOVERY
      
5.09.   PURCHASING
      
5.11.   COST RECOVERY PROGRAM
      
5.13.   LOW VALUE SUPPLEMENTAL AND ESCAPE ASSESSMENTS
CHAPTER 5.01: COUNTY FEES
Section
   
5.01.000   San Benito County master fee schedule
Article I. Attorney’s Fees
   
5.01.001   Reimbursement of attorneys fees relating to appeals of erroneous
denials of SSI/SSP benefits
Article II. Drainage Impact Fees
   
5.01.020   Purpose
   
5.01.021   Drainage Impact Fee Fund
   
5.01.022   Collection of fees
   
5.01.023   Fees
   
5.01.024   Drainage benefit fees
   
5.01.025   Failure to pay fee
Article III. Fees for County Services
Subarticle I. County Clerk/Recorder
   
5.01.035   Findings
   
5.01.036   Fee schedule
Subarticle II. Public Works Department
   
5.01.045   Purpose
   
5.01.046   Findings
   
5.01.047   Effective date
   
5.01.048   Engineering services fees
   
5.01.049   Development processing fees
   
5.01.050   Violation; penalty
Subarticle III. Planning and Related Applications
   
5.01.060   Planning services fee schedule
   
5.01.061   Environmental review fees
   
5.01.062   Average hourly rate
   
5.01.063   Prior enactments repealed
   
5.01.064   Waiver of appeal fee for code violations
   
5.01.065   Amendment to major subdivision fee
Subarticle IV. Tax Collector’s Office
   
5.01.075   Installment redemption fee
Subarticle V. Health and Human Services Agency
   
5.01.085   Purpose
   
5.01.086   Findings
   
5.01.087   Definition of services
   
5.01.088   Fee
   
5.01.089   Calculation of fee
   
5.01.090   Effective date
   
5.01.091   Environmental Health Division
   
5.01.092   Emergency Medical Services Division
Subarticle VI. Special Law Enforcement Services
   
5.01.105   Findings
   
5.01.106   Fee
   
5.01.107   Automatic increase
   
5.01.108   Definition of services
   
5.01.109   Effective date
Subarticle VII. Property Tax Assessment Appeal Fees
   
5.01.110   Purpose
   
5.01.111   Findings
   
5.01.112   Assessment appeal fee schedule
Subarticle VIII. Assessor’s Office’s Fees
   
5.01.115   Purpose
   
5.01.116   Findings
   
5.01.117   Assessor’s Office’s fees
Subarticle IX. County Counsel
   
5.01.118   Counsel fees
Article IV. Park and Recreation Impact Fees
   
5.01.120   Purpose
   
5.01.121   Definitions
   
5.01.122   Fee payment
   
5.01.123   Fee structure
   
5.01.124   Benefit area
   
5.01.125   Exclusions
   
5.01.126   Fund account
Article V. Park Visitor Entrance and User Fees
   
5.01.140   Title
   
5.01.141   Purpose
   
5.01.142   Findings
   
5.01.143   Effective date
   
5.01.144   Daily entrance and use fees
   
5.01.145   Annual motor vehicle entrance pass
   
5.01.146   Penalties
Article VI. School Facilities Fees and Dedications
Subarticle I. General
   
5.01.160   Title
   
5.01.161   Authority
   
5.01.162   Purpose
   
5.01.163   Administration and implementation
   
5.01.164   General plan
Subarticle II. Definitions
   
5.01.175   Conditions of overcrowding
   
5.01.176   Decision-making body
   
5.01.177   Dwelling unit
   
5.01.178   Reasonable methods for mitigating conditions of overcrowding
   
5.01.179   Residential development
Subarticle III. Overcrowding Attendance Area
   
5.01.190   Findings and notice
   
5.01.191   Findings; requirements
   
5.01.192   Concurrence by county
   
5.01.193   Findings for development approval
Subarticle IV. Requirements, Standards and Procedures
   
5.01.205   Payment of fees or dedication of land required
   
5.01.206   Payment of fees in small residential developments
   
5.01.207   Standards for fees or land
   
5.01.208   Amount of fees or land
Subarticle V. Payment on Land Dedication
   
5.01.220   Fee required
   
5.01.221   Land dedication; procedure
   
5.01.222   Refunds
   
5.01.223   School district schedule
Subarticle VI. Uses and Limitations of Uses of Land and Fees
   
5.01.235   Uses of fees or land
   
5.01.236   Agreement for fee distribution
   
5.01.237   Accounts
   
5.01.238   Termination of dedication or fee requirements
Article VII. Traffic Impact Fees
   
5.01.250   Title
   
5.01.251   Purpose
   
5.01.252   Findings
   
5.01.253   Establishment of Traffic Impact Fee Fund
   
5.01.254   Use of Traffic Impact Fee Fund
   
5.01.255   Definitions
   
5.01.256   Effective date
   
5.01.257   Fees
   
5.01.258   Benefit areas
   
5.01.259   Fee payment
   
5.01.260   Annual report
   
5.01.261   Exemptions
   
5.01.262   Failure to pay traffic impact fee
   
5.01.263   Violations
Article VIII. Fire Mitigation Fees
   
5.01.280   Title
   
5.01.281   Purpose of article
   
5.01.282   Findings
   
5.01.283   Definitions
   
5.01.284   Prior agreements
   
5.01.285   Dedications
   
5.01.286   Exemption and waiver
   
5.01.287   Need for fees and their use
   
5.01.288   Fire district findings and content of resolution
   
5.01.289   Fire mitigation fee ceiling established
   
5.01.290   County process
   
5.01.291   Fee payment
   
5.01.292   Fees held in trust for payment to district
   
5.01.293   Use of fees
   
5.01.294   Fee termination
   
5.01.295   District reporting requirements
   
5.01.296   Delegation
Article IX. Law Enforcement Impact Fee
   
5.01.310   Short title
   
5.01.311   Purpose of article
   
5.01.312   Findings
   
5.01.313   Establishment of Law Enforcement Impact Fund
   
5.01.314   Use of Law Enforcement Impact Funds
   
5.01.315   [RESERVED]
   
5.01.316   [RESERVED]
   
5.01.317   Fees
   
5.01.318   [RESERVED]
   
5.01.319   [RESERVED]
   
5.01.320   Fee payment
   
5.01.321   Annual report
   
5.01.322   Exemptions
   
5.01.323   Failure to pay impact fee
   
5.01.324   Violations
   
5.01.325   Enforcement
Article X. Fire Department Fees and Charges
   
5.01.340   Authority
   
5.01.341   Standard for setting fees
   
5.01.342   Schedule of fees
Article XI. Criminal Justice Administrative Fees
   
5.01.355   Fee imposed
   
5.01.356   Clerk-Auditor-Recorder report
   
5.01.357   Public hearing
   
5.01.358   Findings and objections
   
5.01.359   Fee determination
   
5.01.360   Collection of booking fees
   
5.01.361   Regulations
Article XII. Search and Rescue Costs
   
5.01.375   Reimbursement for search and rescue operations
   
5.01.376   Payment due
   
5.01.377   Failure to pay
   
5.01.378   Enforcement
Article XIII. Impact Fee Reimbursement
   
5.01.390   Refund of fees paid
Article XIV. Library Impact Fees
   
5.01.450   Title
   
5.01.451   Purpose
   
5.01.452   Definitions
   
5.01.453   [RESERVED]
   
5.01.454   Establishment of library development impact fees
   
5.01.455   Establishment and administration of Countywide Library Facilities
Fund
   
5.01.456   [RESERVED]
   
5.01.457   Imposition of development impact fees
   
5.01.458   Payment of development impact fees
   
5.01.459   Exemption from development impact fees
   
5.01.460   Annual program fee adjustment
   
5.01.461   Alternative method and compliance with other laws
Article XV. General Government Impact Fee
   
5.01.510   Title
   
5.01.520   Purpose
   
5.01.530   Imposition of fee
   
5.01.540   Payment of fee
Article XVI. Road Maintenance Impact Fee
   
5.01.610   Title
   
5.01.620   Purpose
   
5.01.630   Imposition of fee
   
5.01.640   Payment of fee
Article XVII. Detention Facilities Impact Fee
   
5.01.710   Title
   
5.01.720   Purpose
   
5.01.730   Imposition of fee
   
5.01.740   Payment of fee
Article XVIII. Information Technology Impact Fee
   
5.01.810   Title
   
5.01.820   Purpose
   
5.01.830   Imposition of fee
   
5.01.840   Payment of fee
Appendix
   
A.   Master fee schedule
§ 5.01.000 SAN BENITO COUNTY MASTER FEE SCHEDULE.
   (A)   Intent and purpose. In adopting the San Benito County master fee
schedule (located in
Appendix A to this chapter), the Board of Supervisors intends to provide one
document that lists all fees for services authorized by the Board of
Supervisors. The purpose is to facilitate review and update of the master fee
schedule at reasonable and timely intervals, to provide for ease of use and
access to fees for county services, and to promote a better understanding by
the public of all fees charged by the County of San Benito. Such fees shall not
exceed the actual cost of providing the service in compliance with Article
XIIB, § 8(c) of the California Constitution.
   (B)   Findings. The Board of Supervisors hereby adopts the following
findings.
      (1)   Prior to adopting the master fee schedule, the Board held at least
one public hearing, at which oral or written presentations could be made, as a
part of a regularly scheduled meeting, and that notice of the time and place of
the meeting, including a general explanation of the matter to be considered,
was published in accordance with Cal. Gov’t Code § 6062a, that at least ten
days prior to adoption, this Board made available to the public data indicating
the amount of the costs, or estimated costs, required to provide the services
for which the fees are levied.
      (2)   The Board is authorized to adopt and increase fees in an amount
reasonably necessary to recover costs of providing any product or service,
including indirect costs, pursuant to Cal. Gov’t Code § 54985.
      (3)   The Board desires to recover the full cost of providing the
services specified in the master fee schedule from the parties receiving the
services, and the fees reflected in the master fee schedule shall be used to
recover the costs of providing such services.
      (4)   Fees to be adopted or increased herein are based on fee studies
that present a reasonable estimate of the costs of providing the applicable
services, and demonstrate the proposed fees do not exceed the reasonable
estimate of the costs of providing the services for which they are charged, and
represent reasonable fees necessary to meet the county's operating expenses
pertaining to providing the specified services.
      (5)   The fees and charges specified by this chapter do not exceed the
cost of providing the product or service or enforcing the regulation for which
the fee or charge is levied.
      (6)   The fees set forth in the master fee schedule are charges imposed
for specific governmental services provided directly to the payor of the fee,
and such services will not be provided to those that are not charged, and only
those individuals voluntarily requesting the specified services will be charged
the proposed fees.
   (C)   Master fee schedule. The fees and charges set forth in the master fee
schedule, located in
Appendix A to this chapter, are hereby established for the following county
departments and divisions thereof:
      (1)   Animal Control;
      (2)   Agriculture-Weights and Measures;
      (3)   Assessor Office;
      (4)   Clerk of the Board of Supervisors;
      (5)   County Clerk-Recorder-Registrar of Voters;
      (6)   County Counsel;
      (7)   Emergency Medical Services;
      (8)   Environmental Health;
      (9)   Geographic Information Systems;
      (10)   Library;
      (11)   Mental Health;
      (12)   Public Health;
      (13)   Probation;
      (14)   Resource Management Agency;
      (15)   Sheriff; and
      (16)   Tax Collector.
   (D)   Codified fees and charges. The fees and charges adopted herein and
included in the master fee schedule shall supersede and replace the fees or
charges of the same type, that are specified in chapter
5.01 of this code, or in any other section of this code, or in any resolution
of the Board of Supervisors. However, in the event a fee or charge that is
specified in chapter
5.01, or in any other section of this code, or in any resolution of the Board
of Supervisors, is not expressly included in the master fee schedule, that fee
or charge shall remain in full force and effect, and the master fee schedule
shall not be deemed to supercede or replace it.
   (E)   Adoption and revisions to the master fee schedule.
      (1)   Fees and charges for the county departments listed in this section
and in any other county departments, may be added, reduced, increased, or
deleted from time to time, by amendments to the master fee schedule, in
compliance with state law. The Board may amend the master fee schedule
including, but not limited to, fee type, fee amount and the department
providing the service, by an ordinance adopted by the Board of Supervisors by
majority vote, noticed pursuant to Cal. Gov’t Code § 66016 et seq., during the
annual budget process, and at other times of the fiscal year as necessary,
provided, however, such amendments may specify therein their applicability, if
any, to applications currently in the process of review.
      (2)   To the extent allowed by law or regulation, fees shall be annually
amended to reflect increases in the cost of providing the service including,
but not limited to, increases resulting from changes in the Consumer Price
Index (CPI) calculated using the United States Department of Labor's Consumer
Price Index for All Urban Customers in the San Francisco/Oakland/San Jose, CA
metropolitan area. Notwithstanding CPI increases, fee increases shall be based
upon and supported by cost studies that provide reasonable substantiation of
the cost of providing the service.
      (3)   Portions of fees and charges in the master fee schedule which are
mandated by state or federal law may be automatically adjusted, without benefit
of an ordinance amending the master fee schedule when it is necessary to timely
apply adjustments to said fees and charges in order to maintain compliance with
state or federal law. Individual fees and charges or portions thereof may be
waived by the state or federal government if found to be in the public
interest.
(Ord. 972, § 2, 2018)
ARTICLE I. ATTORNEY’S FEES
§ 5.01.001 REIMBURSEMENT OF ATTORNEYS FEES RELATING TO APPEALS OF ERRONEOUS
DENIALS OF SSI/SSP BENEFITS.
   Pursuant to and as provided in Cal. Welfare and Institutions Code § 17403.1,
Assembly Bill 1149, Statutes of 1983, the County of San Benito elects to be
exempted from the mandatory obligation to pay representation fees out of the
county’s lien claim for reimbursement in specified actions in federal court
concerning applicants for or recipients of the state supplementary program
which provides cash assistance to aged, blind and disabled persons, with the
offset against a county’s claim to be no more than 25% of the interim
assistance reimbursement received by the county. However, the county shall
retain the authority to pay representation fees in such instances as the county
may deem appropriate. Any such payment shall be subject to approval by the
Board of Supervisors.
(1966 Code, § 4A-1) (Ord. 468)
ARTICLE II. DRAINAGE IMPACT FEES
§ 5.01.020 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of the drainage impact fee herein established is to derive
revenue which shall be used for the construction and reconstruction of certain
storm drainage facilities spelled out in the San Felipe Lake drainage plan
pursuant to Cal. Gov’t Code § 66483.
(1966 Code, § 6A.1-1) (Ord. 529, (part))
§ 5.01.021 DRAINAGE IMPACT FEE FUND.
   All drainage impact fees collected pursuant to the provisions of this
article shall be placed into special funds which are hereby created and
established for such purposes and which shall be known as the Drainage Impact
Fee Fund. Revenue deposited into the Fund shall be used for the construction,
reconstruction and related work for the improvement of the storm water drainage
facilities in the benefit area. Separate funds may be established for separate
projects.
(1966 Code, § 6A.1-2) (Ord. 529, (part))
§ 5.01.022 COLLECTION OF FEES.
   No building permit shall be issued after the effective date of the ordinance
codified in this article for the construction or modification of any building
or structure on any land in benefit areas unless the drainage impact fees have
been paid. In the case of major subdivisions the fee shall be collected prior
to Board approval of the map. In all other cases, the fee shall be collected
before a building permit shall be issued.
(1966 Code, § 6A.1-3) (Ord. 529, (part))
§ 5.01.023 FEES.
   (A)   The drainage impact fee shall be fixed by the Board of Supervisors,
from time to time by resolution. The fees established and fixed by the
resolution shall be adjusted on July 1 and January 1 of each year, based upon
the change in the United States Average Engineering News Record Construction
Cost Index (ENR), calculated as follows:
      ENR Index for July or January $650 × FEE
      ENR Index for June 1985
   (B)   The adjusted fee shall be rounded to the nearest $10.
(1966 Code, § 6A.1-4) (Ord. 529, (part))
§ 5.01.024 DRAINAGE BENEFIT AREAS.
   (A)   The San Felipe Lake drainage benefit area shall be established by the
Board of Supervisors by resolution.
   (B)   This will include a text and a map of the area. The benefit area may
be adjusted or rescinded by resolution of the Board of Supervisors.
   (C)   An implementation program including a priority list of identified
projects and capital improvement plan will be adopted, and revised as needed,
by the Board of Supervisors.
(1966 Code, § 6A.1-5) (Ord. 529, (part))
§ 5.01.025 FAILURE TO PAY FEE.
   Failure to pay drainage impact fees to the county shall result in the
building permit application being denied by the Building Official.
(1966 Code, § 6A.1-6) (Ord. 529, (part))
ARTICLE III. FEES FOR COUNTY SERVICES
SUBARTICLE I. COUNTY CLERK/RECORDER
§ 5.01.035 FINDINGS.
   The Board of Supervisors, County of San Benito, makes the following
findings:
   (A)   The Board of Supervisors is authorized to increase fees in an amount
reasonably necessary to recover costs of providing any product or service,
including indirect costs, pursuant to Cal. Gov’t Code § 54985;
   (B)   The Board of Supervisors desires to recover the full cost of providing
the services specified in this Subarticle I, by the San Benito County Clerk,
Recorder and Registrar of Voters, from the parties receiving the services. The
fees established by this subarticle shall be used to recover the costs of
providing such services.
   (C)   Fees to be adopted or increased herein shall be based on fee studies
that present a reasonable estimate of the costs of providing the applicable
services, and demonstrate the proposed fees do not exceed the reasonable
estimate of the costs of providing the services for which they are charged, and
represent reasonable fees necessary to meet the county’s operating expenses
pertaining to providing the specified services.
   (D)   A cost estimate study was conducted by the county and a report filed
establishing a billing rate of $73 per hour or $1.22 per minute for services
provided by the County Clerk, Recorder and Registrar of Voters. The fees
specified in § 5.01.036 are based upon this study and do not exceed the
reasonable costs to the county of performing the applicable services.
   (E)   The fees set forth in §
5.01.036 are charges imposed for specific governmental services provided
directly to the payor of the fee, and such services will not be provided to
those that are not charged.
   (F)   Only those individuals voluntarily requesting the services provided by
the Offices of the County Clerk, Recorder and Registrar of Voters will be
charged the proposed revised fees.
   (G)   Cal. Gov’t Code § 27361(a) allows for the collection of a fee of $10
for the recording and indexing of the first page of every instrument, and $3
for each additional page, to reimburse the county for the costs of services
rendered.
   (H)   Cal. Gov’t Code § 27361(c) allows for the collection of a fee of $1
for the first page and $1 for each additional page of each instrument for the
purpose of providing for the full modernization of the county’s recording
system.
   (I)   Cal. Gov’t Code § 27397(c) allows the Board of Supervisors to adopt a
fee of an additional $1 and to impose said fee for each instrument that is
recorded by the Registrar- Recorder/County Clerk to defray the costs required
to implement and maintain the electronic delivery system. This fee shall be in
addition to any other fees provided by this chapter 5.01, or as otherwise
provided for by statute.
   (J)   In addition, Cal. Gov’t Code § 27361.4(a) allows for the collection of
a fee of $1 for filing every instrument, paper or notice for record, to defray
the cost of converting the County Recorder’s document storage system to
micrographics.
   (K)   Cal. Gov’t Code § 27361.4(b) allows the Board of Supervisors to adopt
a fee of an additional $1 for filing every instrument, paper or notice for
record, in exchange for establishing the days of operation for the County
Recorder’s offices as every business day except for legal holidays and those
holidays designated as judicial holidays pursuant to Cal. Code of Civil
Procedure § 135.
   (L)   Cal. Gov’t Code § 27361.4(c) allows the Board of Supervisors to adopt
a fee of an additional $1 for filing every instrument, paper or notice for
record, provided that the instrument, paper or notice is indexed within two
business days of recordation.
   (M)   The total fee that the Board of Supervisors adopts for the recording
and indexing the first page of each instrument is $15, reflected in the fee
schedule set forth in §
5.01.036.
(1966 Code, § 6C.1-1) (Ord. 621, § 1; Ord. 913, § 1(part), 2013; Ord. 966, § 3,
2018)
§ 5.01.036 FEE SCHEDULE.
   The following fees shall be collected by the San Benito County Clerk-
Recorder and Registrar of Voters:
Service Fee
Service                                                                        Fee
Recording Fees - Recorder’s Fees
First Page of All Titles Not Associated With The Real Estate Fraud Fee (8½" x $15.00
11")
Each Additional Page of Document                                               $3.00
SB-2 Recording Fee May Be Applied; Per Real Estate Instrument, Paper, or       $75.00
Notice
Non-Conforming Page Size Other Than 8½" x 11" All Pages Penalized             $3.00
Release of Lien by a Local Government Entity (Other Than Federal)              $15.00
Documentary Transfer Tax (per $500)                                            $0.55
Notification of Involuntary Lien (First Debtor)                                $7.00
Notification of Involuntary Lien (Each Additional Debtor)                      $7.00
Documents Recorded Without A Preliminary Change of Ownership Report            $20.00
Conformed Copies - Each Copy, if Copy Provided For Conforming (Two Maximum)    $2.00
Penalty Print (per Page)                                                       $1.00
Map Recording Fee (First Page)                                                 $9.00
Map Recording Fee (Each Subsequent Page After The First Page)                  $3.00
Each Additional Group of 10 Names Indexed (Each Group of 10 Names After the    $1.00
First 10 Names)
Each Additional Reference After First Document Referenced, Excluding Mining    $1.00
Claims
Financing Statements (1-2 Pages) (8½" x 11"), UCC Search                      $10.00
Financing Statements (3 or More Pages) (8½" x 11")                            $20.00
Vital Records - Clerk’s Fees
Preliminary 20-day Filing and Notice                                           $50.00
Birth Certificate/Search                                                       $25.00
Birth Certificate/Search (Government Agencies)                                 $19.00
Death Certificate/Search                                                       $21.00
Death Certificate/Search (Government Agencies)                                 $18.00
Fetal Death Certificate/Search                                                 $15.00
Marriage Certificate/Search                                                    $11.00
Marriage Certificate/Search (Government Agencies)                              $15.00
Confidential Marriage Certificate/Search                                       $15.00
Marriage License/PUBLIC (Cash Only)                                            $75.00
Marriage License/CONFIDENTIAL - Restrictions Apply (Cash Only)                 $85.00
Duplicate Marriage License (Cash Only)                                         $20.00
Filing Affidavit to AMEND Confidential Marriage Certificate (One Year or More  $20.00
After Date of Marriage)
Deputy Commissioner for One Day                                                $75.00
Credible Witness Fee (Per Signature for Marriage License Applicants Without    $10.00
Property Identification)
Witness Fee (For the Required Witness at Marriage Ceremonies)                  $10.00
Miscellaneous Services - Clerk’s Fees
Performing Civil Marriage Ceremony in Office                                   $50.00
Fictitious Business Name Filings - Clerk’s Fees
Fictitious Business Name (Includes 1 Owner)                                    $30.00
Additional Fictitious Business or Partner Name                                 $7.00
Abandonment of Fictitious Business Name                                        $30.00
Statement of Withdrawal From Partnership Operating Under Fictitious Business   $30.00
Name
Fictitious Business Name Standard Marketing Report (First Page)                $15.00
Miscellaneous Filings - Clerk’s Fees
I.D. Cards for Process Server, Professional Photocopier, Legal Document        $10.00
Assistant or Unlawful Detainer Assistant
Professional Photocopier Filing                                                $175.00
Unlawful Detainer Assistant Filing                                             $175.00
Legal Document Assistant Filing                                                $175.00
Process Server Filing                                                          $175.00
Process Server/Professional Photocopier Filed Together                         $100.00
Filing bond (PP/UDA/LDA/PS)                                                    $7.00
Miscellaneous Filings - Recorder’s Fees
Power of Attorney - Surety Company (Appointment or Revocation) First Name      $15.00
Power of Attorney - Surety Company (Appointment or Revocation) Additional for  $7.00
Each Added Name
Bond for Legal Document Assistant (File, Cancel, Withdraw or Revoke) First     $15.00
Page
Each Additional Page (Bond)                                                    $3.00
Bond for Notary (File, Cancel, Withdraw or Revoke) First Page                  $15.00
Each Additional Page (Bond)                                                    $3.00
Bond for Process Server (File, Cancel, Withdraw or Revoke) First Page          $15.00
Each Additional Page (Bond)                                                    $3.00
Bond for Professional Photocopier (File, Cancel, Withdraw or Revoke) First     $15.00
Page
Each Additional Page (Bond)                                                    $3.00
Bond for Unlawful Detainer Assistant (File, Cancel, Withdraw or Revoke) First  $15.00
Page
Each Additional Page (Bond)                                                    $3.00
Notary Public Filing (of Oath) Recording Fee                                   $25.00
Notice of Determination for Which a Negative Declaration Was Prepared Pursuant $2,324.75
to the Public Resources Code (Includes County Clerk Handling Fee of $50.00)
Notice of Determination With an Environmental Impact Report Prepared Pursuant  $3,209.75
to the California Environmental Quality Act
Notice of Exemption Fee                                                        $50.00
Notary Signature Authentication - First Signature, Per Notary                  $15.00
Notary Signature Authentication - Each Additional Signature After the First    $5.00
For the Same Notary
Signature Acknowledgment, per Signature                                        $5.00
Military Record Copies (DD-214)                                                No charge
Clerk Search - Files or Records                                                $5.00
Certificate to the Official Capacity of Any Public Official                    $10.00
Copies/Maps
Official Clerk Copies (First Page Per Document) 8½" x 11"                     $5.00
Official Clerk Copies (Each Additional Page Per Document) 8½" x 11"           $2.00
Certified Clerk Copies (First Page Per Document) 8½" x 11"                    $20.00
Certified Official Clerk Copies (Each Additional Page Per Same Document) 8½"x $3.00
11"
Election Copies/Page (Including FPPC Filings)                                  $0.10
Election Compact Disc - Countywide/Jurisdictional                              $40.00
Election Mailing Labels/per Sheet Cost (30 Labels per Sheet)                   $0.19
Certification Under Seal (per Certified Document)                              $20.00
                                                                               Per GIS
Election Map                                                                   Pricing
                                                                               Schedule
                                                                               $250 +
Candidate Statement Printed and Online (200 Words - 1/4 Page Each Language)    $0.05/per
                                                                               voter
                                                                               $400 +
Candidate Statement Printed and Online (250 Words - ½ Page Each Language)     $0.05/per
                                                                               voter
                                                                               $450 +
Candidate Statement Printed and Online (400 Words - ½ Page Each Language)     $0.05/per
                                                                               voter
Candidate Statement Online Only - Must Be Authorized By Jurisdiction (200-400  $150
words)
                                                                               $400.00
Jurisdictions - Minimum Charge For Jurisdictions That Do Not Go To Election    Per
Due to Insufficient Nominee                                                    Jurisdiction
                                                                               Per Contest
Research and Compilation Services                                              $37.00
                                                                               Minimum
CD Rom Copies of Statement of Vote Report                                      $40.00 per
                                                                               hour
Records Over Five Years Old Add Retrieval Service Fee                          $37.00
                                                                               Per GIS
Maps by District                                                               Pricing
                                                                               Schedule
Postage and Handling                                                           $3.00
                                                                               Minimum
                                                                               $5.00 First
                                                                               Page
Outgoing Faxes Within the USA                                                  $1.00 per
                                                                               Additional
                                                                               Page
 
(1966 Code, § 6C.1-2) (Ord. 621, § 2; Ord. 913, § 1(part), 2013; Ord. 966, § 5,
2018; Ord. 972, Exhibit A, 2018)
SUBARTICLE II. PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENT
§ 5.01.045 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subarticle is to establish fees and charges to recover
the full cost of providing engineering services and development processing in
the Public Works Department.
(1966 Code, § 6C.1-3) (Ord. 622, § 2)
§ 5.01.046 FINDINGS.
   (A)   The Board of Supervisors desires to recover the full cost of providing
engineering services and development processing by the Public Works Department
from the parties receiving the services.
   (B)   Review of the revenue generated by the existing fee structure has
proven insufficient to recover the full cost.
   (C)   The fees established by this article shall be used to recover the
costs of providing engineering services and development processing by the
Public Works Department.
   (D)   The fees specified in this article represent reasonable amounts which
do not exceed the cost of providing engineering services and development
processing by the Public Works Department.
(1966 Code, § 6C.1-4) (Ord. 622, § 3)
§ 5.01.047 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   The fees specified by this article shall be collected commencing on the date
the ordinance codified in this article becomes effective.
(1966 Code, § 6C.1-5) (Ord. 622, § 4)
§ 5.01.048 ENGINEERING SERVICE FEES.
      The following engineering service fees shall be collected by the Public
Works Department prior to providing any services. In the event that a deposit
is obtained based upon an hourly rate and estimated time involved, any
remaining balance due shall be due and payable within 72 hours of written
notice by the county of the remaining amount due, sent by fax or by mail to the
address on file for the person or entity requesting the service. In the event
that the fee was incurred as a result of an appeal or discretionary approval by
the county, such approval may be postponed or withheld, and may result in the
postponement of other discretionary actions by the county until the fee is paid
in full.
Service Fee
Service                                             Fee
Blue Prints                  18" x 26" to 24" x 36" $17.00
Requested Letter                                   $74.00
Photo Plot Copies            First sheet            $20.00
                             each additional        $14.00
Record of Survey Examination                        $341.00
Amended Map or Certificate                          $169.00
of Correction
Final Subdivision Map Review                        $992.00 + $70.00 per lot
Major & Minor
Improvement Plan Checks                             4% of first $50,000.00+
                                                    3% of next $150,000.00+
(Based on approved estimate) 2% of amount over
                             $200,000.00
 
 
Service                                    Fee
Encroachment Permit                        $308.00 + $0.75 per lineal
                                           foot
Inspection, minor                          $70.00
Inspection, major                          7% of first $50,000.00+
(Development Inspection                    4% of next $150,000.00+
(Valuation Based))       2% of amount over
                         $200,000.00
 
(1966 Code, § 6C.1-6) (Ord. 622, § 5; Ord. 895, § 1)
§ 5.01.049 DEVELOPMENT PROCESSING FEES.
   The following development processing fees shall be collected by the Planning
Department with the application for a proposed service or project, and
deposited in the appropriate Public Works Department Revenue Account, prior to
providing any services. In the event that a deposit is obtained based upon an
hourly rate and estimated time involved, any remaining balance due shall be due
and payable within 72 hours of written notice by the county of the remaining
amount due, sent by fax or by mail to the address on file for the person or
entity requesting the service. In the event that the fee was incurred as a
result of an appeal or discretionary approval by the county, such approval may
be postponed or withheld, and may result in the postponement of other
discretionary actions by the county until the fee is paid in full.
Service or Application Type Fee
Service or Application Type                                   Fee
C District Review - Existing Building(s)                      $222.00
C District Review - New Construction                          $222.00
CEQA Documentation (Initial Study, Exemption Determination,   $359.00
Negative Declarations, Mitigated Negative Declarations, etc.)
Certificate of Compliance                                     $222.00
Environmental Review RFP/Contract                             $457.00
Environmental Impact Report                                   5% of Contract
Environmental Notice of Preparation                           $394.00
Extension - Tentative Map                                     $267.00
 
Service or Application Type Fee
Service or Application Type                               Fee
Extension - Use Permits                                   $267.00
General Plan Amendment - Map Change                       $523.00
General Plan Amendment - Text Change                      $523.00
Lot Line Adjustment                                       $124.00
M-District Review - Existing Building(s)                  $222.00
M-District Review - New Construction                      $222.00
Major Subdivision - Tentative Map (5-50 Lots)             $172.00
Major Subdivision - Tentative Map (50+ Lots)              $172.00
Major Subdivision - Tentative Map (No Sewer and/or Water) $222.00
Minor Subdivision - Tentative Map No Sewer and Water      $756.00 + $20.00/lot
Monument Preservation (at time of recordation)            $10.00 each
Non-conforming Building Site Review                       $222.00
Parcel Merger                                             $222.00
Preliminary Map                                           $124.00
Public Hearing Continuance                                $602.00
Reprocessing (minor change)                               $124.00
Reversion to Acreage                                      $124.00
Road Abandonment                                          $539.00
Scenic Corridor Review                                    $124.00
Special Plan Review (Landscaping-Grading-Fencing-Etc.)    $222.00
Specific Plan of Land Use                                 $124.00
Transportation Permits                                     
Annual (3)                                                $96.00
Single (3)                                                $40.00
Use Permit - Major (Conditional, General)                 $222.00
Use Permit - Major (Surface Mining, Oil Well, Oil/Gas     $124.00
Storage, Labor Camp)
Use Permit - Minor (Rural Home Enterprise)                $222.00
Use Permit - Minor (Home Occupation)                      $326.00
Use Permit - Minor (Senior Second, Guest House, Third     $222.00
Unit)
Use Permit - Minor (Sign Permit Non Billboard)            $109.00
Use Permit - Minor (Temporary Mobile Home, Fruit Stand)   $222.00
Use Permit Renewal - Planning                             $114.00
Variance                                                  $124.00
Zone Change (Filed with Project)                          $124.00
Zone Change (Filed Separately)                            $124.00
 
(1966 Code, § 6C.1-7) (Ord. 622, § 6; Ord. 895, § 2; Ord. 972, Exhibit A, 2018)
§ 5.01.050 VIOLATION; PENALTY.
   Any person violating any of the provisions of this article shall be guilty
of an infraction and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished as provided in
Chapter 1.03 of this code.
(1966 Code, § 6C.1-8) (Ord. 622, § 7)
SUBARTICLE III. PLANNING AND RELATED APPLICATIONS
§ 5.01.060 PLANNING SERVICES FEE SCHEDULE.
   The schedule of fees attached as
Table 5.01.060(1) of this subarticle is hereby approved and adopted. Planning
fees and the legal surcharge shall be paid by the applicant at the time service
or application processing is requested.
(1966 Code, § 6C.1-9)
Table 5.01.060(1)
Service or Application Type Planning Fees Unit
Table 5.01.060(1)
Service or Application     Planning Fees              Unit
Type
Appeal, commission; land   $1,067                     Plus $100/hour
use
Appeal, commission; CEQA   $1,067                     Plus $100/hour
determination
Appeal, staff; land use    $1,067                     Plus $100/hour
Appeal, Code Violation     $100 per hour
Appeal, staff; CEQA        $1,067                     Plus $100/hour
determination
Building site review       15% of permit fee          5% bid
C-District review;         $1,375                     $90
existing buildings
C-District review; new     $1,375                     $150
construction
Certificate of Compliance  $2,400                     Plus $100/hour
Extension of time;         25% of original map fees   Potential CEQA analysis
tentative map                                         also
Extension of time; use     50% of original use permit Potential CEQA analysis
permit                     deposit                    also
Facsimile                  Rate per page              N/A
General plan amendment;    $10,000 Deposit + CEQA     Plus $27/acre + $100/hour
map change
General plan amendment;    $10,000 Deposit + CEQA     Plus $25/acre + $100/hour
text change
Hourly rate                $134                       N/A
Lot line adjustment        $3,000
M-District review;         $1,500                     $90
existing building(s)
M-District review; new     $1,500                     $150
construction
Map/blueprint photocopy    Actual cost
Major subdivision;
tentative map (no sewer/   $10,000 Deposit + CEQA     $169/lot
water)
Major subdivision;
tentative map (sewer and   $10,000 Deposit + CEQA     $268/lot
water)
Mileage charge             Current CA State rate      N/A
Minor subdivision;
tentative parcel map (no   $2,400 + $25/lot           $150 + $2/lot
sewer/water)
Minor subdivision;
tentative parcel map (with $2,400 + $25/lot           $150 + $2/lot
sewer or water)
Miscellaneous documents;   $15/page                   N/A
map photocopy
Miscellaneous documents;   $15/page                   N/A
blueprint
Miscellaneous documents;   $.25/page                  N/A
text photocopy
Monitoring of CEQA         $100/hour                  Actual cost
mitigations
Nonconforming building     No charge
site review
 
Table 5.01.060(1)
Service or Application Type Planning Fees Unit
Table 5.01.060(1)
Service or Application     Planning Fees              Unit
Type
Oil well inspection        20% of building permit for N/A
                           site visit
Parcel merger              $3,000
Physical address - new w/  $66                        N/A
o building permit
Planning inspection (1     $134/hour                  N/A
hour minimum)
Public hearing continuance $250                       N/A
Preliminary map allocation $5,000 + CEQA              Deposit
Reclamation plan           $10,000 deposit + CEQA     Plus $15/acre
Refund processing fee      $275                       N/A
Reprocessing (minor        50% of original            $100
change)                    application fee
Requested letter; general  $134                       N/A
information
Reversion of acreage       $3,000
Road abandonment           $1,610
Scenic corridor review     $5,000 Deposit             Plus $100/hour
Special Plan Review
(Landscaping, grading,     $805                       Plus $100/hour
fencing and the like)
Specific plan of land use  $10,000 Deposit + CEQA     Plus $27/acre
Surface mine inspection    $400                       N/A
Surface mine reinspection  $200                       N/A
Temporary mobile home      $100                       N/A
renewal
Use permit; major;
conditional, general,      $5,000 Deposit + CEQA
commercial, industrial
Use permit; major; oil
well, oil/gas storage,     $5,000 Deposit + CEQA
labor camps
Use permit; major; surface $10,000 Deposit + CEQA     Plus $13/acre
mining
Use permit; minor; rural   $2,500 Deposit + CEQA
home enterprise, admin.
Use permit; minor; home    $1,200
occupation
Use permit; minor; senior
second, guest house, third $1,077
unit
Use permit; minor; sign    $402
permit (non-billboard)
Use permit; minor; signs,  $45
temporary (seasonal)
Use permit; minor;
temporary mobile home,     $700
fruit stand
Use permit renewal         $2,500 Deposit             Potential CEQA Analysis
Variance                   $5,000 Deposit + CEQA
Zone change; filed with    $10,000 Deposit            Plus $29/acre + $100/hour
project
Zone change; filed         $10,000 Deposit + CEQA     Plus $30/acre + $100/hour
separately
Pre-application review
with the County Design     $1,500                     Deposit
Review Committee
Research fee (for items                               Planner to advise client
taking longer than one     $250 Deposit               after two hours of effort
hour)                                                 before continuing
Extraordinary Development  $10,000 Deposit + CEQA
Review Fee
Development Review         $1,500
Committee Incentive
 
(Ord. 623, § 1(part); Ord. 833, § 1; Ord. 972, Exhibit A, 2018)
§ 5.01.061 ENVIRONMENTAL REVIEW FEES.
   (A)   “Environmental review” is the process of addressing the California
Environmental Quality Act by the county. Environmental review fees shall be
paid by the applicant at the point in time when application is made and are in
addition to planning fees and legal surcharge stated in §
5.01.060.
   (B)   Environmental review fees paid for planning staff review are:
 
Statutory exemption and categorical exemption $874
Request for proposals/EIR contract            $1,611
Initial study/negative declaration            $10,000 deposit if done in-house
Notice of preparation                         $805
EIR and initial study administrative fee
(added to consultant costs, applicant deposit $0.32
requirements)
Consultant-contract preparation               $2,500
 
   (C)   A $250 non-refundable minimum deposit shall be paid by the applicant
at the time of application unless the fee specified above is greater than the
minimum deposit. Should the deposit be expended conducting environmental
review, additional fees shall be paid by the applicant for the actual time
spent on the activity. The legal surcharge for all applications is a minimum
non-refundable fee of $100.
   (D)   Billing for fees shall be quarterly. Failure to pay fees within 30
days of receiving the bill shall constitute an unreasonable delay by the
applicant in the environmental review process. Delinquent bills shall result in
cessation by staff of the environmental review process until billing is made
current.
   (E)   When an environmental impact report (EIR) is required, the fees for
request for proposals/EIR contract and notice of preparation shall not apply
unless more than one request for proposals/EIR contract and notice of
preparation are requested. The Planning Department’s administrative fee for the
processing of an environmental impact report is 25% of the cost of the EIR. The
EIR administrative fee is to be paid by the applicant and is in addition to the
cost of the EIR. When an EIR is required, the legal surcharge/administrative
fee shall be 2% of the cost of the EIR. The specific administrative fee for EIR
processing shall be in addition to any other fees for environmental review.
(1966 Code, § 6C.1-10) (Ord. 623, § 1(part); Ord. 833, § 2; Ord. 972, Exhibit
A, 2018)
§ 5.01.062 AVERAGE HOURLY RATE.
   Based upon the 1992-1993 Planning Department budget, the average hourly rate
for the planning staff is hereby established at $36.50 per hour of service. The
billing rate may be adjusted from time to time by ordinance. The established
hourly rate is applicable to
Table 5.01.060(1) where actual cost and/or hourly rate is indicated and to
environmental review fees after the deposit or fee is expended.
(1966 Code, § 6C.1-11) (Ord. 623, § 1(part))
§ 5.01.063 PRIOR ENACTMENTS REPEALED.
   All prior enactments of the Board of Supervisors establishing fees for
services and materials are hereby repealed to the extent that such enactments
establish fees for services and materials, which are different from the fees
established therefor by this article, but shall otherwise remain in force and
effect. The fees for services may be adjusted from time to time by ordinance.
(1966 Code, § 6C.1-12) (Ord. 623, § 1(part))
§ 5.01.064 WAIVER OF APPEAL FEE FOR CODE VIOLATIONS.
   The appeal fee for planning and the legal surcharge as established by
Table 5.01.060(1) of this subarticle is waived for code violation appeals of
the Planning Director’s decision to the Planning Commission and appeals of the
Planning Commission’s decision on code violations to the Board of Supervisors.
(1966 Code, § 6C.1-13) (Ord. 627, § 1(part))
§ 5.01.065 AMENDMENT TO MAJOR SUBDIVISION FEE.
   The planning fees and legal surcharge as established by
Table 5.01.060(1) of this subarticle is amended for major subdivision
applications for 51 or more lots. For major subdivisions of 51 or more lots,
the applicant shall pay the established fee for a 50 lot subdivision as a
deposit. After the deposit is expended, based on the established hourly rate
for planning and legal services, the applicant shall remit to the Planning
Department, the amounts billed by the Planning Department for services based on
the hourly rate.
(1966 Code, § 6C.1-14) (Ord. 627, § 1(part))
SUBARTICLE IV. TAX COLLECTOR’S OFFICE
§ 5.01.075 INSTALLMENT REDEMPTION FEE.
   (A)   An installment redemption fee of $112 shall be imposed upon persons
electing to pay delinquent taxes in installments pursuant to Cal. Revenue and
Taxation Code § 4217.
   (B)   Except as otherwise stated in Cal. Revenue and Taxation Code § 4217,
application may be made any time prior to 5:00 p.m. on June 30 of the fifth
year after the property became tax defaulted.
   (C)   The installment redemption fee shall be collected at the time the
application is made.
   (D)   Each legal parcel of property shall require its own installment
redemption application and fee.
(1966 Code, § 6C.1-15) (Ord. 629, §§ 1—3; Ord. 842, § 1(part), 2009; Ord. 843,
§§ 1, 2, 2009; Ord. 972, Exhibit A, 2018)
SUBARTICLE V. HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES AGENCY
§ 5.01.085 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subarticle is to establish fees and charges to recover
the full cost of the administration of the state-mandated medical marijuana
program (MMP) and issuance of MMP identification cards.
(1966 Code, § 6C.1-16) (Ord. 809, (part))
§ 5.01.086 FINDINGS.
   The Board of Supervisors, County of San Benito, makes the following
findings:
   (A)   Cal. Health and Safety Code § 11362.755 authorizes the county to
establish and charge fees for the administration of the medical marijuana
program (MMP) and issuance of MMP identification cards.
   (B)   The reasonable estimate of the annual cost of providing the services
specified in division (A) of this section is $1,095.
   (C)   The fees/charges specified in this subarticle represent the reasonable
charges/fees necessary to reimburse the county for performing the applicable
services specified in this subarticle. The charges/fees do not exceed the
reasonable estimate of the cost of providing the services for which the
charges/fees are levied.
(1966 Code, § 6C.1-17) (Ord. 809, (part); Ord. 821, § 1)
§ 5.01.087 DEFINITION OF SERVICES.
   The fee shall be applicable for the administration of the MMP including
providing applications, receiving and processing applications, maintaining MMP
records and issuing MMP identification cards to approved applicants and primary
caregivers.
(1966 Code, § 6C.1-18) (Ord. 809, (part))
§ 5.01.088 FEE.
   The fee for issuing an MMP identification card is $100 per card. Pursuant to
Cal. Health and Safety Code § 11362.755(b), upon satisfactory proof of
participation and eligibility in the Medi-Cal program, a Medi-Cal beneficiary
shall receive a 50% reduction in the fees established pursuant to this section.
(1966 Code, § 6C.1-19) (Ord. 809, (part); Ord. 821, § 2; Ord. 972, Exhibit A,
2018)
§ 5.01.089 CALCULATION OF FEE.
 
Staff time (Secretary II - $30.59 including 45% benefits at 12 hrs/ $ 367.00
yr)
Supplies                                                            $ 200.00
State fee per application - 8 at $66.00                             $ 528.00
Annual cost                                                         $1,095.00
Cost per application ( based on 8 per year)                         $137.00
 
(1966 Code, § 6C.1-20) (Ord. 809, (part); Ord. 821, § 3)
§ 5.01.090 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   The ordinance codified in this subarticle shall take effect and be in force
30 days after the date of its passage and approval. Prior to the expiration of
15 days from the final passage hereof, the Clerk of the San Benito County Board
of Supervisors shall cause the ordinance codified in this article to be
published in a newspaper of general circulation in the County of San Benito.
(1966 Code, § 6C.1-21) (Ord. 809, (part))
§ 5.01.091 ENVIRONMENTAL HEALTH DIVISION.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to establish revised fees and
charges sufficient to offset the expenses of the Environmental Health Division
of the Health and Human Services Agency in enforcing state statutes, orders,
quarantines, rules and regulations relating to public or environmental health.
This ordinance repeals Ord. 814 previously codified in §
5.01.091 “Environmental Health Division”, previously enacted. It also allows
for a provision of an annual adjustment to fees based on the consumer price
index.
   (B)   Authority. The authority for this section is contained in Cal. Health
and Safety Code §§ 101025 and 101325.
   (C)   Findings. The Board of Supervisors of the County of San Benito makes
the following findings:
      (1)   The Board of Supervisors finds that pursuant to Cal. Health and
Safety Code § 101325 that the expenses of the Environmental Health Division of
this county in the enforcement of statutes, orders, quarantines, rules and
regulations relating to public or environmental health which either require or
authorize the health officer of this county perform specific acts, are not met
by fees prescribed by the state.
      (2)   Existing state law authorizes the county to levy fees for services
related to the protection of the environment, and enacts specific surcharges on
certain services which are to be collected by the county and remitted to the
state.
      (3)   The fees for service were reviewed by staff as necessary to carry
out the mandated activities and the function of the Environmental Health
Division by the State of California.
      (4)   The fees specified on the schedule are based on the methodology
presented in the 2006 User Fee Report received by Muni-Financial for the County
of San Benito.
      (5)   The fees are based on existing budgets, salaries and benefits,
indirect costs for services and supplies, and costs associated with providing
direct supervision and are attached and referenced herein to Ord. 915 as
Schedule A - Environmental Health Fees.
      (6)   The fees represent a reasonable fee and they do not exceed the
maximum allowable fee to be levied.
   (D)   Definition of services. The fee schedule shall be applicable to the
permitting processes, inspections, plan checks and associated activities as
mandated by the Health and Safety Code of the State of California, the San
Benito County Code and other applicable regulatory agencies which legally
mandate the performance by the County of San Benito Environmental Health
Division and are listed on the schedule.
   (E)   Fees. The fee schedule shall be known as the “Environmental Health
Fees” and is attached to Ord. 915 as Schedule A and shall be incorporated by
reference.
   (F)   Failure to pay fee. The failure to pay the fee imposed by this section
within 30 days after such fee is due shall result by operation of law in the
revocation process of any permit for which fees are required by the section.
   (G)   Fee proration. Fees shall be prorated for food facilities, which
include restaurant, vending and retail market according to the following
schedule:
 
January, February, March, April, May, June the full fee
July, August, Sept., Oct., Nov., Dec.      one half of the fee
 
   (H)   Exemption from permit fee. The director of the Environmental Health
Division of the Health and Human Services Agency shall issue a permit without
requiring a fee to qualified veterans pursuant to Cal. Business and Professions
Code § 16102.
   (I)   Annual CPI adjustment. All fees referenced in Schedule A may be
subject to an annual fee adjustment in proportion to the percentage change of
the Consumer Price Index. The Board of Supervisors may by resolution approve an
annual increase, starting July 1st of each year by the percent change of the
year ending December of the Consumer Price Index, All Urban Consumers (CPI-U),
for the San Francisco-Oakland-San Jose area, but the increase shall not exceed
3% in any given year.
(Ord. 915, §§ 1—9, 2013)
§ 5.01.092 EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICES DIVISION.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to establish fees and charges
sufficient to offset the expenses of the Emergency Medical Services Division of
the County of San Benito in the regulation of all emergency medical
transportation services and the emergency medical services and personnel
connected therewith in order to protect the health, safety and welfare of the
residents of the county. The section also allows for a provision of an annual
adjustment to fees based on the consumer price index.
   (B)   Authority. Recovery of such costs is authorized by Cal. Health and
Safety Code Division 2.5 § 1797.212 and Cal. Code of Regulations Division 9,
Title 22, §§ 100171, 100300 and 100083.
   (C)   Findings. The Board of Supervisors of the County of San Benito makes
the following findings:
      (1)   The Board of Supervisors finds that pursuant to the Cal. Health and
Safety Code, Division 2.5 Emergency Medical Services, that some expenses of the
Emergency Medical Services Division of this county in the enforcement of
statutes, rules and regulations relating to public or emergency medical
services require or authorize the EMS Coordinator or EMS Medical Director of
this county to perform specific acts, not met by fees prescribed by the state.
      (2)   Existing state law authorizes the county to levy fees for services
related to the protection of the public health, and enacts specific surcharges
on certain services which are to be collected by the county and remitted to the
state.
      (3)   The fees for service were reviewed by staff as necessary to carry
out the mandated activities and the function of the Emergency Medical Services
Division by the State of California.
      (4)   The fees specified on the schedule are based on the methodology
presented in the 2006 User Fee Report received by Muni-Financial for the County
of San Benito.
      (5)   The fees are based on existing budgets, salaries and benefits,
indirect costs for services and supplies, and costs associated with providing
direct supervision and are attached to Ord. 919 and referenced herein as
Schedule A - Emergency Medical Services Fees.
      (6)   The fees represent a reasonable fee and they do not exceed the
maximum allowable fee to be levied.
   (D)   Definition of services. The County of San Benito Emergency Medical
Services Division is authorized under state law to levy fees for services and
is legally mandated to perform services as per the Cal. Health and Safety Code
and State Emergency Medical Services Authority. Fees pertain to standards and
practices established for the protection of the public and applicable to the
permitting process for agencies practicing and providing services, and other
associated activities as mandated by Health and Safety Code of the State of
California, the San Benito Code and other applicable regulatory agencies.
   (E)   Fees. The fee schedule shall be known as the “Emergency Medical
Services Fees” is attached to Ord. 932 as Schedule A and shall be incorporated
by reference.
   (F)   Failure to pay fee. The failure to pay the fee imposed by this section
within 30 days after such fee is due shall result by operation of law in the
revocation process of any permit for which fees are required by the section.
   (G)   Annual CPI adjustment. All fees referenced in Schedule A may be
subject to an annual fee adjustment in proportion to the percentage change of
the Consumer Price Index. The Board of Supervisors may by resolution approve an
annual increase, starting July 1st of each year by the percent change of the
year ending December of the Consumer Price Index, All Urban Consumers (CPI-U),
for the San Francisco-Oakland-San Jose area, but the increase shall not exceed
3% in any given year.
(Ord. 919, §§ 1—7, 2013; Ord. 932, § 4, 2014)
SUBARTICLE VI. SPECIAL LAW ENFORCEMENT SERVICES
§ 5.01.105 FINDINGS.
   The Board of Supervisors finds as follows:
   (A)   Existing state law authorizes the county to levy fees for services
related to the special law enforcement services provided by the San Benito
County Sheriff’s Office;
   (B)   The fees established by this subarticle shall be used to recover the
costs of providing law enforcement services for public and private events by
the Sheriff’s Office; and
   (C)   The fees specified in this article represent the reasonable fees
necessary for performing special law enforcement services. The fees do not
exceed the reasonable estimate of the cost of providing the services for which
the fees are levied.
(Ord. 808, § II)
§ 5.01.106 FEE.
   For each officer performing special law enforcement services, the fee shall
be $45 per hour. The fee is effective as soon as this subarticle becomes
operative.
(Ord. 808, § III)
§ 5.01.107 AUTOMATIC INCREASE.
   (A)   Those fees established by this subarticle shall be subject to an
automatic annual rate increase in proportion to the percentage change in the
San Francisco-Oakland-San Jose Consumer Price Index – All Urban Consumers (CPI-
U) over the prior calendar year ending December 31, with the fee adjustment
occurring on July 1 of the subsequent calendar year.
   (B)   The adjusted fee shall be rounded to the nearest whole dollar.
(Ord. 808, § IV)
§ 5.01.108 DEFINITION OF SERVICES.
   The fees established by this subarticle shall be applicable to special law
enforcement services performed by the San Benito County Sheriff’s Office.
Special law enforcement services include providing security for public and
private events held in San Benito County.
(Ord. 808, § V)
§ 5.01.109 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This subarticle shall take effect and be in force 30 days after the date of
its passage and approval. Prior to the expiration of 15 days from the final
passage hereof, the Clerk of San Benito County Board of Supervisors shall cause
this subarticle to be published in a newspaper of general circulation in the
County of San Benito.
(Ord. 808, § VI)
SUBARTICLE VII. PROPERTY TAX ASSESSMENT APPEAL FEES
§ 5.01.110 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subarticle is to establish fees and charges to recover
the full cost of providing services pertaining to property tax assessment
appeals.
(Ord. 906, § 1 (part), 2012)
§ 5.01.111 FINDINGS.
   (A)   Cal. Gov’t Code § 54985 authorizes the county to collect fees for
services to recover the costs of providing any product or service, including
indirect costs.
   (B)   Cal. Revenue and Taxation Code § 1611.5 authorizes the county to
collect a reasonable fee to cover the expense of preparing written findings of
fact requested by an appellant.
   (C)   The Board of Supervisors desires to recover the full cost of providing
services related to property tax assessment appeals by the San Benito County
Clerk of the Board, County Counsel and County Assessor, from the parties
receiving the services. The fees established by this subarticle shall be used
to recover the costs of providing such services.
   (D)   A cost estimate study was prepared to determine the reasonable cost of
providing the services. The fees established by this subarticle represent
reasonable amounts which do not exceed the cost of providing the services for
which they are charged.
(Ord. 906, § 1 (part), 2012)
§ 5.01.112 ASSESSMENT APPEAL FEE SCHEDULE.
   The following fees shall be collected by the Clerk of the Board of
Supervisors, at such time as an application for changed assessment is filed,
and at such time as a request for preparation of written findings of fact is
submitted. Persons requesting the preparation of written findings of fact shall
make an initial deposit, subject to increase or refund, based on actual time
spent by the San Benito County Counsel and San Benito Assessor, at the hourly
rates in effect for those offices at the time of providing the service, and
based on the actual cost of materials. In the event the cost of providing
services exceeds the amount of the deposit, any remaining balance due shall be
due and payable within 72 hours of written notice by the county of the
remaining amount due, sent by fax or by mail to the address on file.
 
Service                                 Fee
Assessment appeal filing fee            $45 per parcel
Fee for preparation of written findings $500 deposit per parcel, adjusted for
of fact                                 actual time and materials incurred by
                                        the County Counsel’
 
(Ord. 906, § 1 (part), 2012)
SUBARTICLE VIII. ASSESSOR’S OFFICE’S FEES
§ 5.01.115 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subarticle is to establish fees and charges to recover
the full cost to the Assessor’s Office of providing services pertaining to the
processing of certain claims.
(Ord. 912, § 1(part), 2013)
§ 5.01.116 FINDINGS.
   (A)   Cal. Gov’t Code § 54985 authorizes the county to collect fees for
services to recover the costs of providing any product or service, including
indirect costs.
   (B)   The Board of Supervisors desires to recover the full cost of providing
the services specified in this Subarticle VIII, by the San Benito County
Assessor, from the parties receiving the services. The fees established by this
subarticle shall be used to recover the costs of providing such services.
   (C)   Fees to be adopted herein shall be based on fee studies that present a
reasonable estimate of the costs of providing the applicable services, and
demonstrate the proposed fees do not exceed the reasonable estimate of the
costs of providing the services for which they are charged, and represent
reasonable fees necessary to meet the county’s operating expenses pertaining to
providing the specified services.
   (D)   Cal. Revenue and Taxation Code § 63.1(j)(2) authorizes the county to
collect a reasonable fee, not to exceed $175, to cover the expense of
processing late-filed change in ownership exclusion claims pertaining to
assessments on real property transfers between a parent and child or between a
grandparent and grandchild.
(Ord. 912, § 1(part), 2013)
§ 5.01.117 ASSESSOR’S OFFICE’S FEES.
   The following fees shall be collected by the San Benito County Assessor’s
Office:
 
Service   Fee    Collection
Late-
filed     $175   Upon Taxpayer’s filing of claim form only if the Taxpayer failed to respond
change in per    within 45 days of the Assessor’s First Notice to complete the claim form and
ownership parcel subsequently failed to respond within 60 days of the Assessor’s Second Notice.
exclusion
claims
 
(Ord. 912, § 1(part), 2013)
SUBARTICLE IX. COUNTY COUNSEL
§ 5.01.118 COUNSEL FEES.
   (A)   Outside counsel fees.
      (1)   Notwithstanding any other section of this code, and to supplement
the fees set forth in those sections, all applicants submitting an application
for any discretionary approval from the Resource Management Agency shall be
charged and pay all expenses for outside legal counsel when such counsel has
been retained by the county to provide legal advice relating to that
application. Applicants will be responsible in the same manner and at the same
rate as the county may incur those expenses.
      (2)   The amount paid under §
5.01.060 as "legal surcharge" shall be applied to the fees specified above, so
that the applicant receives full credit for the amounts paid as part of the
application submittal as the "legal surcharge."
      (3)   For work performed by outside legal counsel on contract with San
Benito County, in addition to hourly rates, applicants shall be responsible for
actual costs charged to the county for costs and expenses, including, but not
limited to, photocopying and mileage expenses. Due to the costs of staff time
for legal billing, applicants receiving less than one total hour of outside
counsel time shall not be billed for the costs of outside counsel.
      (4)   Rates different than above may be established by an agreement with
an applicant. The hourly rate billed by outside counsel shall not exceed $450
per hour, absent a project specific reimbursement agreement.
   (B)   County counsel internal staff fees. Fees for County Counsel staff may
be fixed by the Board of Supervisors, from time to time, by resolution.
   (C)   Collection of fee.
      (1)   Applicant shall be billed for the work being performed by outside
counsel. Any balance shall be due and payable within five days of written
notice by the county of the amount due, at the address on file for the person
and/or entity requesting the service, such as on the application submitted to
the Resource Management Department. The notice may be provided by fax, email,
or by mail. Applicants shall notify County Counsel, at legal@cosb.us, of any
change in address within five business days of such change occurring.
      (2)   In the event that the fee was incurred as a result of an appeal or
discretionary approval by the county, such approval may be postponed or denied
in the event of non-payment of the fee.
      (3)   No discretionary approvals shall be granted by the county when
there is a past due amount owed to the county, unless this provision is waived
by County Counsel.
      (4)   Payment of all fees shall be a condition of approval for any
discretionary approval.
(Ord. 971, § 2, 2018)
ARTICLE IV. PARK AND RECREATION IMPACT FEES
§ 5.01.120 PURPOSE.
   (A)   It is the purpose of this article to establish a parks and recreation
fee for the accumulation of revenue.
   (B)   The revenue shall be used for the acquisition of land, the
construction of recreational improvements and the acquisition of equipment.
Revenue accumulated may also be used as local match for state and federal
grants-in-aid programs for park and recreation development. Revenue shall be
collected 30 days from and after the passage of the ordinance codified in this
article.
(1966 Code, § 11A-1) (Ord. 542, § 1)
§ 5.01.121 DEFINITIONS.
   As used in this article, the following words and phrases are defined as
follows.
   COUNTY. The County of San Benito, State of California.
   DWELLING UNIT. A structure, single-family house, apartment unit within a
multi-family structure, and mobile home on a permanent foundation.
   OPEN SPACE LANDS FOR RECREATION. Areas of outstanding scenic, historical and
cultural value; areas particularly suited for parks and outdoor recreation
purposes.
   UNINCORPORATED. All land within the boundary of San Benito County, excluding
all land area within the incorporated Cities of Hollister and San Juan
Bautista.
(1966 Code, § 11A-2) (Ord. 542, § 2)
§ 5.01.122 FEE PAYMENT.
   A park and recreation impact fee shall be collected on all new permanent
residential dwelling units granted a building permit or installation permit by
the County of San Benito after the effective date of the ordinance codified in
this article. The fee exaction shall not be applied to permits issued for non-
residential structures, or for additions, remodels or renovations of
residential units totaling not more than 50% of the square footage of the
preexisting development. Remodels in excess of the 50% exclusion shall be
charged the established per-square-foot rate for each square foot of remodel
area in excess of 50%. Failure to pay the fee shall result in the building
permit application being denied by the San Benito County Building Official.
(1966 Code, § 11A-3) (Ord. 542, § 3)
§ 5.01.123 FEE STRUCTURE.
   (A)   The parks and recreation impact fee shall be established by the Board
of Supervisors by ordinance or resolution. The Board of Supervisors shall
review the fee rate and make any adjustment deemed appropriate in light of the
revenue fund balance as of July 1 of each year.
   (B)   The Park Facilities Impact Fee shall be charged on residential
development in the amount of $4,634 for each single family residence and $4,245
for each multi-family residence.
(1966 Code, § 11A-4) (Ord. 542, § 4; Ord. 962, §§ 1, 2, 2017)
§ 5.01.124 BENEFIT AREA.
   For the purpose of this article, the “benefit area” for the provision of
county park and recreation facilities shall be the entire unincorporated area
of San Benito County.
(1966 Code, § 11A-5) (Ord. 542, § 5)
§ 5.01.125 EXCLUSIONS.
   For the purposes of this article, the following development activities are
deemed to have no significant impact on park and recreation needs, and are
therefore excluded from the payment of this impact fee:
   (A)   Additions, remodels or reconstruction of dwelling units totaling not
more than 50% of the square footage of the preexisting dwelling;
   (B)   Commercial and industrial development projects;
   (C)   Commercial agricultural and horticultural development projects
including accessory structures; and
   (D)   The replacement of preexisting dwellings lost by fire, earthquakes or
permit for demolition and replacement, providing the replacement does not
exceed 150% of the square footage of the destroyed dwelling.
(1966 Code, § 11A-6) (Ord. 542, § 6)
§ 5.01.126 FUND ACCOUNT.
   The County Auditor shall deposit all park and recreation impact fee revenues
into a separate park development account. Funds in the account shall be used
exclusively for the acquisition and development of new and existing parks
within the county.
(1966 Code, § 11A-7) (Ord. 542, § 7)
ARTICLE V. PARK VISITOR ENTRANCE AND USER FEES
§ 5.01.140 TITLE.
   This article shall be known as “Park Visitor Entrance and User Fee
Ordinance”.
(1966 Code, § 11B-1) (Ord. 626, § B(1))
§ 5.01.141 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this article is to establish a park visitor entrance or user
fee for the accumulation of revenue to recover the cost of developing and
maintaining county parks and facilities.
(1966 Code, § 11B-2) (Ord. 626, § B(2))
§ 5.01.142 FINDINGS.
   (A)   The Board of Supervisors expressly find that development and ongoing
maintenance in county parks seriously drain the county budget resources to the
extent there is a need for comprehensive regulations governing use of parks and
facilities by the visiting public.
   (B)   The fees established by this article shall be used to accumulate
revenue to defray costs for development and maintenance of county parks and
facilities.
   (C)   The fees specified in this article represent reasonable amounts which
do not exceed the cost of providing for the development and maintenance of
county parks and facilities.
(1966 Code, § 11B-3) (Ord. 626, § B(3))
§ 5.01.143 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   The entrance or user fees specified by this article shall be collected
commencing on the date the ordinance codified in this article becomes
effective.
(1966 Code, § 11B-4) (Ord. 626, § B(4))
§ 5.01.144 DAILY ENTRANCE AND USE FEES.
   (A)   San Justo Reservoir.
      (1)   To obtain entrance to the San Justo Reservoir recreation area, each
motor vehicle must pay a $5 entrance fee each day of entry. Persons entering
the park by walking, bicycle or means other than motor vehicle, regardless of
age must pay an entrance fee of $2 for each day of entry. Persons using the
water surface by means of boat, sailboat, surfboard or other means to float or
move themselves on the water surface must pay an additional user fee of $3 each
day for each craft size of 13 to 16 feet in length or $2 each day for each
water craft, surfboard or other means used on the water surface which is less
than 13 feet. Senior citizens and handicapped persons, as such categories of
persons are defined in divisions (B) and (C) of this section, shall be exempt
from the user fee applicable to persons using the water surface by means of
boat, sailboat, surfboard or other means to float or move themselves on the
water surface.
      (2)   Any minor (person under 18 years of age) with the consent of a
parent or guardian may obtain free of charge from the Public Works Department a
non-transferable annual pass allowing the minor to enter free of charge the San
Justo Reservoir recreation area by walking, bicycling or by means other than
motor vehicle; provided the minor conspicuously displays the pass at all times
when in the San Justo Reservoir recreation area.
   (B)   Historical and Recreation Park.
      (1)   Description. A map, designated Exhibit A to Ordinance No. 894,
delineates the San Benito County Historical and Recreation Park as referred to
in this code section.
      (2)   Hours of operation.
         (a)   Normal hours. The normal hours of operation for the San Benito
County Historical and Recreation Park are from sunrise to sunset daily. Any
extensions of the time of operation are subject to the conditions set forth
herein describing the use and fees for special events.
         (b)   Extended hours. Extended hours, which exceed the normal hours of
sunrise to sunset, may be granted upon the written approval of the Public Works
Administrator or his or her designee.
      (3)   Fees.
         (a)   Individual rental of Areas 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8 and 9. Each
area of the park may be rented at from sunrise to sunset at an interval of not
less than one day. The rental fee for use of Areas 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8 and 9
shall be $50 per day payable to the County of San Benito. Each rental will
require completion of the San Benito County public works contract confirming
the agreement between the renter and the County of San Benito.
         (b)   Rental of Area 10 (entire park). An individual, agency, group or
organization may rent the entire historical and recreation park as delineated
as Area 10 (which excludes the Historical Society owned buildings), at the rate
of $300 per day, at an interval of not less than one day from sunrise to
sunset, payable to the County of San Benito. Each rental will require
completion of the San Benito County public works contract confirming the
agreement between the renter and the County of San Benito. In addition, the
renter will be subject to the terms and conditions listed in divisions (B)(4),
(B)(5), (B)(6) and (B)(7) herein.
         (c)   Individual vehicle entrance. Any vehicle entering the park not
associated with a group renting Areas 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9 or 10 shall be
charged $3 per vehicle entering the park, payable to the County of San Benito.
         (d)   Rental availability. User fees shall be waived for a maximum of
three weekends per fiscal year for San Benito County Historical Society events.
Event dates must be coordinated with the Public Works Department by the San
Benito County Historical Society six months in advance of event dates. No other
individual, agency, group or organization shall have priority use of the
historical and recreation park. Usage of the park shall be based on a "first-
reserved" and paid basis. All fees must be paid, the contract signed, and if
applicable, a certificate of insurance, naming the County of San Benito as an
additional insured be received by the County of San Benito County Public Works
Department two weeks prior to the reserved date to guarantee rental.
         (e)   Rental application. The renter shall make reservations with the
San Benito County Public Works Department located at 3220 Southside Road,
Hollister. Verbal and fax reservations will be accepted; however all applicable
reservation requirements will be required.
      (4)   Security deposit and insurance. If the entire historical and
recreation park is rented for a day and the renter intends to use the park for
an event that will include any one of the following:
         (a)   Sale of food, beverage or alcohol;
         (b)   Exceed the county noise level ordinance;
         (c)   Use of firearms;
         (d)   Charge a separate entrance fee; or
         (e)   An event or production that the general public is invited to
attend, the following requirements must be met:
            1.   Security deposit.
               a.   A security deposit in the amount of $300 will be required
two weeks prior to the date of rental. The deposit must be received to reserve
a date for the function. The deposit and/or an itemized statement of the
disposition of the deposit will be returned within 30 days.
               b.   At the completion of the event, all advertising,
directional signs, temporary structures and any additional objects used, as
part of the event shall be removed from the property within 48 hours. All trash
and debris generated by the event shall be removed from the site and disposed
of in an appropriate manner. if these conditions are not met, the cost incurred
by the Public Works Department for the clean up will be deducted from the
security deposit. In the event the cost of the clean-up exceeds the deposit,
the renter named on the signed contract will be responsible for all additional
costs.
            2.   Insurance.
               a.   The renter shall assume all risk for loss damage, liability
injury or other expense that may arise during, or be caused by, the use or
occupancy of the historical and recreation park. In addition, the renter, group
or organization agrees to save and hold harmless the County of San Benito and/
or their employees free from any loss, claims and liability or damages, and/or
injuries to persons and property that in any way may be caused by renter’s use
(s) or occupancy.
               b.   The renter shall obtain a $1,000,000 liability insurance
policy naming the County of San Benito as additionally insured. The responsible
party shall file a certificate of insurance with the County of San Benito
Public Works Department two weeks prior to the date of the event.
      (5)   Public safety requirements.
         (a)   Emergency vehicles. The renter will be responsible for observing
and adhering to providing adequate and unrestricted ingress and egress
necessary for emergency access for all events held at the county’s Historical
and Recreation Park.
         (b)   Open wild fires. Open wood fires are not allowed without the
written approval of the California Department of Fire and Forestry and the
Public Works Administrator or his or her designee. Barbecue grills or camp
stoves are allowed.
         (c)   Firearm safety requirements.
            1.   No live ammunition will be allowed in the county’s Historical
and Recreation Park during any event under any circumstances.
            2.   The firearm activities shall be conducted in a segregated
location to insure the safety of event attendees.
            3.   Firearm activities that are defined as a demonstration and/or
production show and use blank ammunition must further comply with the following
requirements:
               a.   Notice shall be given to the San Benito County Public Works
Department in writing two weeks prior to the event wherein the use of firearms
will occur.
               b.   Notify the San Benito County Sheriff’s desk sergeant at the
start of any event and the San Benito County Communications Department.
               c.   Designate range masters to load, clear, inspect and control
all firearms and blank ammunition during the event.
               d.   Neighbors within 1,500 feet of the boundaries of the San
Benito County Historical and Recreation Park shall be notified in writing two
weeks prior to the event wherein the use of firearms will occur.
            4.   In addition to the use of firearm requirements listed above,
public events, such as rendezvous and civil war reenactments, require the
submission and approve of a fire protection plan by the County of San Benito
Fire Department for approval. A copy of the approved fire protection plan must
be submitted to the San Benito County Public Works Department two weeks prior
to the event.
      (6)   Public health requirements.
         (a)   Sale of food and alcohol. Any event that will include the sale
of food and alcohol for public events shall meet the requirements of the County
of San Benito Environmental Health Department regarding sanitary facilities and
food preparation. Prior to a public event, the following shall be submitted and
approved by the San Benito County Environmental Health Department for approval:
            1.   Any event that will require the use of portable toilets shall
include a plan that addresses all Americans With Disabilities Act requirements
and is approved by the San Benito Environmental County Health Department.
            2.   Any event that will include the sale of food will require
evidence that the requirements of the California Uniform Retail Food Facility
Law have been met and approved by the San Benito County Health Department.
            3.   Evidence that there will be potable water on site.
            4.   A copy of the above mentioned approvals must be submitted to
the San Benito County Public Works Department two weeks prior to the event.
         (b)   Alcohol consumption.
            1.   Alcohol consumption is allowed at events held within the
confines of the San Benito County Historical and Recreation Park and is subject
to all applicable laws and regulations.
            2.   Any alcohol sales at an event will require the organizer to
obtain all required permits established by San Benito County Code and the
Alcohol Beverage Control Board.
         (c)   Noise level. Noise from all events shall be maintained on site
in a manner that is in accordance with all San Benito County ordinances
currently in effect as adopted by the San Benito County Board of Supervisors.
Neighbors within 1,500 feet from any boundary of the San Benito County
Historical and Recreation Park shall be notified in writing ten days prior to
the event wherein the San Benito County noise ordinance level would apply.
      (7)   Responsibility.
         (a)   It is the responsibility of the renter to:
            1.   Provide all required written and approved documentation to the
San Benito County Public Works Department within the specified timelines
established herein; and
            2.   Assure that all terms and conditions guidelines are followed
at all events.
         (b)   The Public Works Administrator or his or her designee shall have
authority to require or waive additional requirements on a case-by-case basis.
   (C)   Veterans Memorial Park.
      (1)   Groups or organizations planning to use one or more shelters marked
as "A," "B," "C" or "D" in Veterans Memorial Park must register a request at
the Department of Public Works office, pay a $75 user fee for each day and each
shelter requested and a $50 cleaning/damage deposit.
      (2)   Groups or organizations planning to use Bertha Briggs Building must
register a request at the Department of Public Works office, pay a $225 user
fee for each day requested and a $200 cleaning/ damage deposit.
      (3)   Deposits shall be refunded if the county's final inspection finds
the shelter area(s) or Bertha Briggs Building clean and free of damage.
      (4)   User fees shall be waived for a maximum of three weekends per
fiscal year to be distributed among the recognized San Benito County Veteran's
Organizations and/or veterans organizations as defined in Cal. Military and
Veterans Code § 1260(c), at the Veterans Memorial Park Commission's discretion,
and for non-profit or governmental organizations using Veterans Memorial Park
shelters to distribute goods or services to needy persons. Event dates must be
coordinated with the Public Works Department by the veterans organizations six
months in advance of event dates.
(1966 Code, § 11B-5) (Ord. 626, § B(5); Ord. 658, § A; Ord. 674, § 1; Ord. 704,
§ 2; Ord. 758, § 1; Ord. 894, §§ 1 - 3)
§ 5.01.145 ANNUAL MOTOR VEHICLE ENTRANCE PASS.
   (A)   Any person may obtain an annual motor vehicle entrance pass to the San
Justo Reservoir recreation area and to the San Benito County Historical and
Recreation Park for an $80 fee.
   (B)   Senior citizens, a person 62 years of age or more, with proof of
identification, may obtain an annual pass as above for a $65 fee.
   (C)   Handicap persons, a person possessing a distinguishing license plate
or placard issued under the California Vehicle Code may obtain an annual pass
as above for $65.
   (D)   Annual passes specified in divisions (A) through (C) of this section
shall be issued on a calendar-year basis from the county’s Department of Public
Works Office.
(1966 Code, § 11B-6) (Ord. 626, § B(6))
§ 5.01.146 PENALTIES.
   Any person violating any of the provisions of this article is guilty of an
infraction and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished as provided in
Chapter 1.03 of this code.
(1966 Code, § 11B-7) (Ord. 626, § B(7))
ARTICLE VI. SCHOOL FACILITIES FEES AND DEDICATIONS
SUBARTICLE I. GENERAL
§ 5.01.160 TITLE.
   This article shall be known and may be cited as the “School Facilities Fee/
Dedication Ordinance”.
(1966 Code, § 15A-1) (Ord. 407, § 101, 1978)
§ 5.01.161 AUTHORITY.
   This article is adopted pursuant to the provisions of Cal. Gov’t Code
Chapter 4.7 (commencing with § 65970) of Division 1 of Title 7.
(1966 Code, § 15A-2) (Ord. 407, § 102, 1978)
§ 5.01.162 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this article is to provide a method for financing interim
school facilities necessitated by new residential developments causing
conditions of overcrowding.
(1966 Code, § 15A-3) (Ord. 407, § 103, 1978)
§ 5.01.163 ADMINISTRATION AND IMPLEMENTATION.
   The Board of Supervisors may, from time to time, by resolution, issue
regulations to provide for the administration and implementation of this
article.
(1966 Code, § 15A-4) (Ord. 407, § 104, 1978)
§ 5.01.164 GENERAL PLAN.
   (A)   The county’s general plan provides for the location of public schools.
   (B)   Where facilities are to be constructed from fees or land required to
be dedicated hereunder, or both, they shall be consistent with the general
plan.
(1966 Code, § 15A-5) (Ord. 407, § 105, 1978)
SUBARTICLE II. DEFINITIONS
§ 5.01.175 CONDITIONS OF OVERCROWDING.
   CONDITIONS OF OVERCROWDING. The total enrollment of an attendance area’s
school or schools, including enrollment from proposed development, exceeds the
capacity of such school or schools within the attendance area, as determined by
the governing body of the school district.
(1966 Code, § 15A-6) (Ord. 407, § 201, 1978)
§ 5.01.176 DECISION-MAKING BODY.
   DECISION-MAKING BODY. The Board of Supervisors or its designee.
(1966 Code, § 15A-7) (Ord. 407, § 202, 1978)
§ 5.01.177 DWELLING UNIT.
   DWELLING UNIT. A building or portion thereof, or a mobile home, designed for
residential occupation by one person or a group of two or more persons living
together as a domestic unit.
(1966 Code, § 15A-8) (Ord. 407, § 203, 1978)
§ 5.01.178 REASONABLE METHODS FOR MITIGATING CONDITIONS OF OVERCROWDING.
   REASONABLE METHODS FOR MITIGATING CONDITIONS OF OVERCROWDING. Includes but
is not limited to, concepts such as:
   (A)   Any agreements entered into by the affected school district which
would alleviate conditions of overcrowding caused by new residential
development;
   (B)   The use of relocatable structures, student transportation and school
boundary realignments;
   (C)   The use of available bond or state loan revenues to the extent
authorized by law;
   (D)   The use of funds which could be available from the sale of surplus
school district real property and funds available from other appropriate
sources, as determined by the governing body of affected school districts; and
   (E)   Agreements between a subdivider or other developer of residential
developments in the affected school district whereby temporary use buildings
will be leased to or for the benefit of the school district or temporary use
buildings owned by the school district will be used.
(1966 Code, § 15A-9) (Ord. 407, § 204, 1978)
§ 5.01.179 RESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENT.
   RESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENT. A project containing residential dwellings,
including mobile homes, of one or more units, or a division of land for the
purpose of constructing one or more residential units. RESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENT
includes, but is not limited to, a preliminary or final development plan, a
subdivision tentative or final map, a parcel map, conditional use permit, a
building permit or any other discretionary permit for new residential use.
(1966 Code, § 15A-10) (Ord. 407, § 205, 1978)
SUBARTICLE III. OVERCROWDING ATTENDANCE AREA
§ 5.01.190 FINDINGS AND NOTICE.
   (A)   Pursuant to Cal. Gov’t Code §§ 65970 et seq., the governing body of a
school district may make a finding supported by clear and convincing evidence
that:
      (1)   Conditions of overcrowding exist in one or more attendance areas
within the district which will impair the normal functioning of educational
programs, including the reason for such conditions existing;
      (2)   All reasonable methods of mitigating conditions of overcrowding
have been evaluated; and
      (3)   No feasible method for reducing such conditions exists.
   (B)   Upon making these findings, the school district must provide the
county with written notice of its findings as provided in §
5.01.191.
(1966 Code, § 15A-11) (Ord. 407, § 301, 1978)
§ 5.01.191 FINDINGS; REQUIREMENTS.
   Any notice of findings sent by a school district to the county shall
specify:
   (A)   The findings listed in §
5.01.190;
   (B)   Findings of facts and a summary of the evidence upon which the
findings in §
5.01.190 were based;
   (C)   The mitigation measures and methods, including those listed in §
5.01.178, considered by the school district in any determination made
concerning them by the district;
   (D)   The precise geographic boundaries of the overcrowded attendance area
or areas; and
   (E)   Such other information as may be required by a Board regulation.
(1966 Code, § 15A-12) (Ord. 407, § 302, 1978)
§ 5.01.192 CONCURRENCE BY COUNTY.
   After receipt of any notice of findings complying with the requirements of §
5.01.191, the Board, if it concurs with the school district findings, shall do
so by resolution.
(1966 Code, § 15A-13) (Ord. 407, § 303, 1978)
§ 5.01.193 FINDINGS FOR DEVELOPMENT APPROVAL.
   Within an attendance area, where the Board has concurred in a school
district’s notice of finding that conditions of overcrowding exist, no
decision-making body shall approve an application for a residential development
within the area, unless the decision-making body makes one of the following
findings:
   (A)   That, pursuant to this article, provision has been made for payment of
fees, dedication of land, or both, or some other provision has been agreed upon
by the applicant for a residential development in the school district to
mitigate the conditions of overcrowding within that attendance area; or
   (B)   That there are specific, overriding physical, economic, social or
environmental factors which, in the judgment of the decision-making body, would
benefit the county, thereby justifying the approval of a residential
development otherwise subject to the provisions of this article without
requiring the payment of fees or the dedication of land or other alternate
provision required by
Subarticle IV of this article.
(1966 Code, § 15A-14) (Ord. 407, § 304, 1978)
SUBARTICLE IV. REQUIREMENTS, STANDARDS AND PROCEDURES
§ 5.01.205 PAYMENT OF FEES OR DEDICATION OF LAND REQUIRED.
   In an attendance area where the Board has concurred as provided in
Subarticle III of this article that overcrowding exists, the applicant of a
proposed residential development, as a condition of approval, or the obtaining
of a building permit, shall pay fees, make an equivalent arrangement in lieu
thereof, dedicate land, or do a combination thereof, unless excepted as
provided in §
5.01.193(B), as determined by the decision-making body during the hearings and
other proceedings on specific residential development applications falling
within their respective jurisdictions. Prior to the imposition of the fees, or
the dedication of land or both, it shall be necessary for the decision-making
body acting on the application to make the following determination: that the
facilities to be constructed, purchased, leased or rented from such fees or the
land to be dedicated, or both, are consistent with the general plan.
(1966 Code, § 15A-15) (Ord. 407, § 401, 1978)
§ 5.01.206 PAYMENT OF FEES IN SMALL RESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENTS.
   Only the payment of fees shall be required in subdivision containing 50
parcels, or less, or other developments containing 50 units or less.
(1966 Code, § 15A-16) (Ord. 407, § 402, 1978)
§ 5.01.207 STANDARDS FOR FEES OR LAND.
   Any requirement imposed pursuant to this article shall bear reasonable
relationship and will be limited to the needs of the community for interim,
elementary or high school facilities, and shall be reasonably related and
limited to the need for the schools caused by the development.
(1966 Code, § 15A-17) (Ord. 407, § 403, 1978)
§ 5.01.208 AMOUNT OF FEES OR LAND.
   (A)   When fees are required by this subarticle to be paid in lieu of land
dedication or as a combination or both, the fees shall be paid as determined by
the Board of Supervisors following a public hearing, the hearing to be
conducted within 30 days from receipt of the notice of findings from the school
district. Following the public hearing, the Board may, by resolution, make
findings and determine as required by § 65974, including the amount of land to
be dedicated and/or the fees to be paid.
   (B)   The total land area required by this article to be dedicated shall be
at least equal in monetary value as to the fees which would be otherwise
required by division (A) of this section. The county Assessor shall determine
and establish the monetary value of land area for the purpose of this division.
(1966 Code, § 15A-18) (Ord. 407, § 404, 1978)
SUBARTICLE V. PAYMENT ON LAND DEDICATION
§ 5.01.220 FEE REQUIRED.
   If the payment of a fee is required, the payment shall be made at the time
the building permit is approved and issued. Fees shall be held in trust by the
county until transferred to the affected school district or districts.
(1966 Code, § 15A-19) (Ord. 407, § 501, 1978)
§ 5.01.221 LAND DEDICATION; PROCEDURE.
   When land is to be dedicated, it shall be offered for dedication in
substantially the same manner as prescribed in the county subdivision
ordinance. Land shall be deeded directly to the school district or districts
under procedures adopted by the county.
(1966 Code, § 15A-20) (Ord. 407, § 502, 1978)
§ 5.01.222 REFUNDS.
   (A)   If a final subdivision map, a parcel map or conditional use permit is
vacated or voided and the county still retains the land and if the applicant so
requests, the Board shall order the land returned.
   (B)   If a residential development approval is vacated or voided and if the
county still retains the fees collected therefor, and if the applicant so
requests, the Board shall order the fees returned to the applicant.
(1966 Code, § 15A-21) (Ord. 407, § 503, 1978)
§ 5.01.223 SCHOOL DISTRICT SCHEDULE.
   Following concurrence by the Board pursuant to §
5.01.192, the Clerk of the Board shall notify each school district affected
thereby. The governing body of the school district shall then submit a schedule
specifying how it will use the fees or land, or both, to solve the conditions
of overcrowding. The schedule shall include the school sites to be used, the
classroom facilities to be made available and the time when the facilities will
be available. In the event the governing body of the school district cannot
meet the schedule, it shall submit modifications to the county’s Board of
Supervisors and the reasons for the modifications.
(1966 Code, § 15A-22) (Ord. 407, § 504, 1978)
SUBARTICLE VI. USES AND LIMITATIONS OF USES OF LANDS AND FEES
§ 5.01.235 USE OF FEES OR LAND.
   All fees or land, or both, collected pursuant to this article and
transferred to a school district, shall be used only by the district for the
purpose of providing interim, elementary or high school classroom and related
facilities.
(1966 Code, § 15A-23) (Ord. 407, § 601, 1978)
§ 5.01.236 AGREEMENT FOR FEE DISTRIBUTION.
   If two separate school districts operate schools in an attendance area where
the Board concurs that overcrowding conditions exist for both school districts,
the Board will enter into an agreement with the governing body of each school
district for the purpose of determining the division of revenues from the fees
levied pursuant to this article.
(1966 Code, § 15A-24) (Ord. 407, § 602, 1978)
§ 5.01.237 ACCOUNTS.
   Any school district receiving funds or land pursuant to this article shall
maintain a separate account for any fees paid and disposition of land received,
and shall file a report with the board on the balance and account at the end of
the previous fiscal year and the facilities leased, purchased or constructed
during the previous fiscal year. In addition, the report shall specify which
attendance areas will continue to be overcrowded when the fall term begins and
where conditions of overcrowding will no longer exist. The reports shall be
filed by August 1 of each year, and shall be filed more frequently at the
request of the Board.
(1966 Code, § 15A-25) (Ord. 407, § 603, 1978)
§ 5.01.238 TERMINATION OF DEDICATION OR FEE REQUIREMENTS.
   When it is determined by the Board of Supervisors that conditions of
overcrowding no longer exist in an attendance area, decision-making bodies
shall cease imposition of any requirements under this article.
(1966 Code, § 15A-26) (Ord. 407, § 604, 1978)
ARTICLE VII. TRAFFIC IMPACT FEES
§ 5.01.250 TITLE.
   This article shall be known as the “Traffic Impact Fee Ordinance”.
(1966 Code, § 15B-1) (Ord. 554, § 1(part))
§ 5.01.251 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of the traffic impact fee ordinance is to generate revenue to
defray costs of transportation and transit facilities necessitated by
development projects in San Benito County.
(1966 Code, § 15B-2) (Ord. 554, § 1(part))
§ 5.01.252 FINDINGS.
   The Board of Supervisors of the county finds as follows:
   (A)   New public and private development, both residential and commercial,
places an undue burden on existing county roads and creates a need for new
county roads;
   (B)   The increasing volume of construction of residences and commercial
buildings continues to generate traffic which causes the degeneration of
existing county roads. These existing roads consequently require repair,
improvement, reconstruction and expansion as a direct consequence of the
impacts of new development;
   (C)   The need to repair, improve, reconstruct and expand roads creates a
need to replace aging equipment necessary to handle the consequences of the
increased traffic;
   (D)   Reconstruction and improvement of existing roads economically reduces
a need for costly new construction. Therefore, reconstruction of existing roads
is essential in the overall plan in developing transportation and transit
facilities;
   (E)   Additionally, the impacts of growth in San Benito County require the
construction of completely new county roads. Recently, the voters authorized a
temporary increase in the local sales tax (known as Measure A) to partially
address the need for new roads. However, Measure A funds do not provide all of
the funds needed to finish the construction of these essential new roads;
   (F)   Revenue generated by the traffic impact fee ordinance will allow the
combination of the impact fee funds with the Measure A revenue in order to
construct the necessary new roads. The revenue generated by the traffic impact
fee will also create funds to purchase new rights-of-way to expand existing
roads and create new roads;
   (G)   Revenue generated by the traffic impact fee will create funds to
purchase essential road equipment necessary to accomplish the reconstruction
and construction of new roads; and
   (H)   Also the revenue generated by the traffic impact fee will create funds
to cover reconstruction costs involving existing roads.
(1966 Code, § 15B-3) (Ord. 554, § 1(part))
§ 5.01.253 ESTABLISHMENT OF TRAFFIC IMPACT FEE FUND.
   All traffic impact fees collected pursuant to this article shall be placed
into special funds which are created and established for the purposes specified
in this article. The special funds shall be known as the “Traffic Impact Fee
Fund”.
(1966 Code, § 15B-4) (Ord. 554, § 1(part))
§ 5.01.254 USE OF TRAFFIC IMPACT FEE FUND.
   Revenue in the Traffic Impact Fee Fund shall be used for the financing
transportation and transit facilities. Transportation and transit facilities
include, but are not limited to, streets and supporting improvements, roads,
overpasses, bridges, related facilities and equipment incidental thereto.
Appropriate expenditures include, without limitation, costs of construction,
reconstruction, equipment and acquisition of land, all incidental to
transportation and transit facilities. Separate funds may be established for
particular targeted expenditures.
(1966 Code, § 15B-5) (Ord. 554, § 1(part))
§ 5.01.255 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPLICANT. Any entity which applies for a development permit to be issued by
the county.
   CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY. The same meaning as specified in the most recent
edition of the Uniform Building Code.
   DEVELOPMENT.
      (1)   All construction for which a building permit is required; or
      (2)   The installation of mobile home requiring an installation permit.
   DEVELOPMENT PERMIT. Includes all permits for development, as “development”
is defined herein.
   FINAL INSPECTION. The same meaning as specified in the most recent edition
of the Uniform Building Code.
   RATE. The amount of money per square footage of a building, such amount
determined by the Board of Supervisors.
   SQUARE FOOTAGE. Of a building, is computed by determining the area within
the surrounding exterior walls of a building, or a portion thereof, including
the area of the walls themselves, exclusive of vent shafts and courts. The
square footage of a building, or a portion thereof, not provided with
surrounding exterior walls shall be the usable area under the horizontal
projection of the roof or floor above.
   SUBSTANTIALLY EQUIVALENT. The same meaning as the term is described in Cal.
Revenue and Taxation Code § 70.
(1966 Code, § 15B-6) (Ord. 554, § 1(part))
§ 5.01.256 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   The traffic impact fees specified by this article shall be required, and
shall be collected, commencing on the date the ordinance codified in this
article becomes effective.
(1966 Code, § 15B-7) (Ord. 554, § 1(part))
§ 5.01.257 FEES.
   Traffic impact fee rates shall be fixed by the Board of Supervisors, from
time to time, by resolution. The fees established and fixed by the resolution
shall be adjusted on July 1 and January 1 of each year, based upon the change
in the United States Average Engineering News Record Construction Cost Index
(ENR), calculated as follows.
 
FEE
ENR Index for July or January
ENR Index for June 1989
 
(1966 Code, § 15B-8) (Ord. 554, § 1(part))
§ 5.01.258 BENEFIT AREAS.
   The benefit areas for particular projects or expenditures shall be
established by the Board of Supervisors, by resolution. The resolutions shall
include a description of the proposed project or expenditures and the area
determined to benefit therefrom. Benefit areas may be adjusted, amended or
rescinded by resolution of the Board of Supervisors.
(1966 Code, § 15B-9) (Ord. 554, § 1(part))
§ 5.01.259 FEE PAYMENT.
   (A)   Prior to issuance of a building permit, an applicant shall pay to the
Building Department the fees prescribed by resolution or shall present written
evidence that the provisions of this article have otherwise been satisfied with
respect to the development for which permits are sought.
   (B)   The amount of the fee shall be determined by the rate in effect on the
date that payment is tendered.
   (C)   In the event that subsequent development occurs with respect to
property for which fees have been paid, additional fees shall be required only
for additional square footage of development that was not included in computing
the prior fee.
(1966 Code, § 15B-10) (Ord. 554, § 1(part); Ord. 948, § 1, 2016)
§ 5.01.260 ANNUAL REPORT.
   (A)   Annually, the Director of Public Works pursuant to state law,
including Cal. Gov’t Code § 66001, shall prepare a report on the status of the
Traffic Impact Fee Fund for the Board of Supervisors. The report shall include
the balance of Impact Fee Fund at the end of the previous fiscal year, the fee
revenue received during the previous fiscal year, and the need for the
continuing collection of the impact fees.
   (B)   Following presentation of the report by the Director of Public Works,
the Board shall take whatever action appropriate.
(1966 Code, § 15B-11) (Ord. 554, § 1(part))
§ 5.01.261 EXEMPTIONS.
   The following development projects are exempt from paying the traffic impact
fee:
   (A)   Building permits for certain types of development are exempt from the
requirements of this ordinance since this type of development does not
significantly add to the impact on transportation and transit facilities. The
following types of development are exempt from the requirements of this
article: building permits for:
      (1)   Pools;
      (2)   Fences;
      (3)   Storage structures for existing uses, when (a) the structure will
not be used for human occupancy, and (b) the additional storage structures will
not result in additional traffic to/from the subject property. This exemption
shall not apply to vacant or unimproved land; and
      (4)   Additions or alterations with a value of $5,000 or less.
   (B)   No traffic impact fee shall apply to the reconstruction of any
residential, commercial or industrial structure that is damaged or destroyed as
a result of a natural disaster, as declared by the Governor of the State of
California. Any reconstruction which is not substantially equivalent to the
damaged or destroyed property shall be deemed new construction and to that
portion the traffic impact fee shall apply.
   (C)   If a structure is destroyed by a fire or other natural calamity, which
is not proclaimed a natural disaster by the Governor of the State of
California, no traffic impact fee shall be required for the replacement of the
existing structure when the replacement structure contains the same, or less,
square footage as the previously existing structure. If the replacement
structure contains more square footage than the previously existing structure,
the traffic impact fee shall apply only to the excess square footage.
   (D)   If an applicant desires to voluntarily destroy an existing structure,
no impact fee shall apply for the replacement of the existing structure when
the replacement structure contains the same, or less, square footage as the
previously existing structure. If the replacement structure contains more
square footage than the previously existing structures, the traffic impact fee
shall apply only to the excess square footage. This exemption applies only when
an applicant applies for a development permit and waiver of impact fees in
advance of the destruction of the previously existing structure and only if the
previously existing structure could have been legally occupied at the time of
destruction.
(1966 Code, § 15B-12) (Ord. 554, § 1(part); Ord. 890, § 1)
§ 5.01.262 FAILURE TO PAY TRAFFIC IMPACT FEE.
   The county shall not conduct a final inspection, or issue a certificate of
occupancy, if an applicant does not pay any required traffic impact fee. The
applicant shall not cause, or allow, the occupation of a structure without
payment of the traffic impact fee when the fee is required by this article.
(1966 Code, § 15B-13) (Ord. 554, § 1(part))
§ 5.01.263 VIOLATIONS.
   A violation of any provision of this article constitutes a public nuisance,
per se.
(1966 Code, § 15B-14) (Ord. 554, § 1(part))
ARTICLE VIII. FIRE MITIGATION FEES
§ 5.01.280 TITLE.
   This article shall be known and may be cited as the “Fire Mitigation Fee
Ordinance”.
(1966 Code, § 15C-1) (Ord. 639, § 1(part))
Editor’s note:
   Prior ordinance history: Ord. 504.
§ 5.01.281 PURPOSE OF CHAPTER.
   (A)   The purpose of this article is to make provision for assessing and
collecting fees at the time of issuance of a building permit to finance the
actual or estimated costs of fire protection facilities and equipment
necessitated by new development.
   (B)   The purpose of this fee is to finance future fire protection
facilities and fire capital expenditures required because of new development
within the district.
(1966 Code, § 15C-2) (Ord. 639, § 1(part))
§ 5.01.282 FINDINGS.
   The Board of Supervisors of the County of San Benito finds and declares as
follows.
   (A)   Adequate fire protection facilities must be available to serve new
development.
   (B)   Public and private developments require the construction or expansion
of fire protection facilities and the acquisition of equipment.
   (C)   In many areas of the county, the funds for the expansion or
construction of fire facilities and the purchase of equipment necessitated by
new development are not available when the development occurs, resulting in the
potential for inadequate fire protection for the new development and the
community.
   (D)   The above conditions place the residents of the development and the
community in a condition perilous to their health and safety.
   (E)   The impacts of development on the existing fire protection facilities
and equipment cannot be alleviated in a reasonable period of time without
county involvement.
   (F)   The San Benito County general plan policies commit the county to aid
in the construction of fire suppression facilities.
   (G)   For the above reasons, new methods for financing fire protection
facilities and equipment necessitated by development are needed in San Benito
County.
(1966 Code, § 15C-3) (Ord. 639, § 1(part))
§ 5.01.283 DEFINITIONS.
   Whenever the following words are used in this article, they shall have the
meaning ascribed to them in this section.
   BOARD. The San Benito County Board of Supervisors.
   BUILDING. Any structure and shall include addition of floor space to
existing improvements.
   CLERK. The Clerk of the Board of Supervisors of the County of San Benito.
   DEVELOPMENT. All construction for which a building permit is required.
   DIRECTOR. The Director of the Department of Planning and Building Inspection
of the County of San Benito.
   FACILITIES and EQUIPMENT. Any long-term capital facilities and equipment
used by a Fire District for fire protection or emergency medical services
including station construction, station expansion, fire or emergency medical
apparatus and water facilities for providing fire protection.
   FIRE CAPITAL FACILITIES AND EQUIPMENT PLAN. A plan adopted by the district
at a noticed public hearing.
   FIRE DISTRICT and DISTRICT. Any special district providing fire protection
services within the unincorporated area of the county. FIRE DISTRICT also
includes the county when providing fire protection services through a county
service area, or by other means.
   NEW DEVELOPMENT. Construction of residential, commercial, industrial and
other projects within the definition of “building” in the San Benito Code,
Chapter 19.01, as adopted and amended by the Board of Supervisors. NEW
DEVELOPMENT, as used in this article, shall include mobile homes and
manufactured homes installed on site, either with or without a permanent
foundation. NEW DEVELOPMENT includes the building of a single residential,
commercial or industrial structure with the recognition that every single new
structure contributes to the cumulative impact upon the burden of providing
fire protection.
(1966 Code, § 15C-4) (Ord. 639, § 1(part))
§ 5.01.284 PRIOR AGREEMENTS.
   Any agreement existing prior to the operative date of this article between
an applicant for development and a fire district pertaining to the dedication
of land or payment of fees for fire facilities and equipment to serve the
property which is the subject of the application, or any portion thereof, shall
satisfy the requirements of this article.
(1966 Code, § 15C-5) (Ord. 639, § 1(part))
§ 5.01.285 DEDICATIONS.
   If land, facilities or equipment have been dedicated or donated to the fire
district as a required condition of approval of a discretionary permit, the
dedication or donation shall be considered as satisfying the requirements of
this article.
(1966 Code, § 15C-6) (Ord. 639, § 1(part))
§ 5.01.286 EXEMPTION AND WAIVER.
   (A)   The requirements of this article shall not apply to dwellings or
buildings destroyed by fire or other calamity or by voluntary destruction,
provided that the application for a building permit to replace the dwelling is
filed with the director within one year after destruction of the dwelling
unless otherwise excepted. The replacement dwelling shall not exceed the
original dwelling by more than 10% in size. To the extent the replacement
dwelling or building exceeds 10% of the previous size, the requirements of this
article shall apply to such excess.
   (B)   The requirements of this article shall also not apply to the following
types of construction:
      (1)   Pools;
      (2)   Fences;
      (3)   Building or additions or alterations to buildings with a value of
less than $5,000; or
      (4)   Buildings constructed for San Benito County governmental purposes.
   (C)   A district may provide for the waiver or partial exemption of the
requirements of this article based upon a determination that the fire risk for
a particular structure justifies the exemption or waiver. To create an
exemption or waiver process, the district shall provide for the exemption or
waiver and for the criteria to grant the same in the resolution specified in §
5.01.288.
(1966 Code, § 15C-7) (Ord. 639, § 1(part))
§ 5.01.287 NEED FOR FEES AND THEIR USE.
   (A)   Each district which requests a fire mitigation fee shall establish
that there is a need in the district for fire capital facilities based on new
development and its cumulative effect, which facilities have not been
constructed or purchased and to which new development has not contributed its
fair share. Furthermore, the facilities must have been called for in, or are
consistent with, the district’s capital facilities and equipment plan. The need
for the facilities or equipment shall be established by an appropriate study.
   (B)   The cost estimates set forth in a study by each district shall show
that they are reasonable cost estimates for constructing or replacing these
facilities, and the fees expected to be generated by new development will not
exceed the total of these costs.
   (C)   The fire mitigation fees collected pursuant to this article shall be
used to finance only the public facilities described or identified in a fire
capital facilities and equipment plan prepared in any district which wishes to
have the county impose a fire mitigation fee on a new development within its
district boundaries.
(1966 Code, § 15C-8) (Ord. 639, § 1(part))
§ 5.01.288 FIRE DISTRICT FINDINGS AND CONTENT OF RESOLUTION.
   This article shall become applicable to development within the boundaries of
a fire district when the following events occur.
   (A)   A study and analysis shall be prepared by the fire district as a fire
capital facilities mitigation analysis.
   (B)   Each district which requests that the Board adopt a fire mitigation
fee shall hold a public hearing. After considering testimony, the district may
approve the study and find that the new development in the fire district will
generate additional fire service need and will contribute to the degradation of
fire services in the district. The district shall present to the Board facts
and evidence which establish a reasonable relationship between the need for the
described public facilities and the impacts of new development, and that there
is a reasonable relationship between the use of the fee and the type of
development for which the fee is charged.
   (C)   The governing body of a fire district shall adopt a resolution making
the following findings:
      (1)   The district does not have existing adequate fire protection
facilities and equipment which could be used to provide an appropriate level of
service to new development within the district’s boundaries, as documented in a
capital facilities and equipment plan;
      (2)   The district does not have sufficient funds available to construct
additional facilities from fund balances, capital facility funds, property tax
sources or any other appropriate sources;
      (3)   The lack of fire protection facilities and equipment to serve a new
development would create a situation perilous to the public health and safety;
and
      (4)   The fire mitigation fee is necessary because other development fees
charged by the district do not include payment toward the costs of the capital
facility and equipment expansion necessitated by new construction.
(1966 Code, § 15C-9) (Ord. 639, § 1(part))
§ 5.01.289 FIRE MITIGATION FEE CEILING ESTABLISHED.
   The fire mitigation fee amount requested by the district shall be equal to
or lesser than the ceiling amount set by this article. This ceiling amount is
$1,662 for each single family residence, $1,523 for each multi-family
residence, $0.712 per square foot for each commercial development, $0.541 per
square foot for each office development, and $0.320 per square foot for each
industrial development.
(1966 Code, § 15C-10) (Ord. 639, § 1(part); Ord. 962, § 3, 2017)
§ 5.01.290 COUNTY PROCESS.
   (A)   The district shall submit the request for Board adoption of a fire
mitigation fee to the Director. The request shall be comprised of a certified
copy of the district’s resolution, and its capital facilities and equipment
plan and such other information as the Director may deem appropriate for
processing the request. The information shall include proof of compliance by
district with the California Environmental Quality Act.
   (B)   The Director shall review the request and shall set a public hearing
before the Board of Supervisors within 45 days after the request is received by
the Director in order to consider the district’s request and the adoption of a
resolution establishing a fire mitigation fee for the unincorporated area of
the county within the service area of the district.
   (C)   The Board may approve or disapprove the request at a noticed public
hearing. Notice of the public hearing shall be given in accordance with state
law.
   (D)   Upon approval, a copy of the Board resolution shall immediately be
transmitted to the Director and the Clerk. Within 60 days of Board resolution,
the provisions of the article shall be applicable to all building permits
issued for new construction.
   (E)   In approving a resolution establishing fire mitigation fees for any
district, the Board shall review all applicable evidence relating to the
district’s request and shall concur in and ratify the findings of the district.
   (F)   The resolution shall become effective upon the district entering into
an agreement with the county, approved as to form by the County Counsel, which
obligates the district to comply with the provisions of this article and which
holds the county harmless for any action of the county or the Board in the
establishment, collection or transmittal of any fees to the district.
(1966 Code, § 15C-11) (Ord. 639, § 1(part))
§ 5.01.291 FEE PAYMENT.
   (A)   Prior to issuance of a building permit, the applicant for the building
permit shall pay to the Director the fees prescribed by resolution or
ordinance, or shall present written evidence that the provisions of this
article have otherwise been satisfied with respect to the development for which
permits are sought and that the district concurs with this determination that
the requirement has been satisfied.
   (B)   The amount of the fees due shall be determined by the fee resolution
or ordinance in effect on the date the applicant satisfies this article.
   (C)   When application is made for a new building permit following the
expiration of a previously issued building permit for which fire mitigation
fees were paid, only the additional fee payments shall be required based upon
any current fee resolution.
   (D)   In the event the subsequent development occurs with respect to
property for which fees have been paid, additional fees shall be required only
for the additional square footage of development which was not included in
computing the prior fee.
(1966 Code, § 15C-12) (Ord. 639, § 1(part); Ord. 948, § 2, 2016; Ord. 962, § 4,
2017)
§ 5.01.292 FEES HELD IN TRUST FOR PAYMENT TO DISTRICT.
   Fees paid under this article shall be held in trust by the county. The fees
shall be transferred at least quarterly to the fire district serving the area
from which the fees were collected. The county shall retain any interest
accrued during this period as partial reimbursement for its service and
handling costs.
(1966 Code, § 15C-13) (Ord. 639, § 1(part))
§ 5.01.293 USE OF FEES.
   All fees collected pursuant to this article and transferred to a fire
district, shall be used by the district for the purpose of providing for
capital facilities and equipment necessary to provide service to new
development in unincorporated areas of the county within the service area of
the district. The county shall retain 10% of the fees collected as
administration costs.
(1966 Code, § 15C-14) (Ord. 639, § 1(part))
§ 5.01.294 FEE TERMINATION.
   Fee collection as to any fire district shall terminate if, at any time, the
governing body of a fire district submits a copy of a resolution to the
Director requesting termination of fee collection. In this case, fee collection
shall terminate 30 days from the date of receipt by the director.
(1966 Code, § 15C-15) (Ord. 639, § 1(part))
§ 5.01.295 DISTRICT REPORTING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The district shall place all funds received by the county under this
program, and all interest subsequently accrued by the district on these funds,
in a separate budget accounting category to be known as the San Benito County
fire mitigation fee.
   (B)   The district shall expend funds from the San Benito County fire
mitigation fee, budget accounting category only for those purposes of providing
capital facilities and equipment to serve new development as identified in the
capital facilities plan.
   (C)   District shall maintain an accounting record.
   (D)   The district shall submit a report no later than October 31 of each
year to the Director. The report shall include the balance in the account at
the end of the previous fiscal year, the fee revenue received, the amount and
type of expenditures made and the ending balance in the fund. The report shall
specify how funds have been spent or committed in the district’s budget. In
addition, the report shall specify the actions the district plans to take to
alleviate the facility and equipment needs caused by new development in a
capital facilities and equipment plan. The district shall make available upon
request by the Director a copy of its annual audit report.
   (E)   The district shall make its records available to the public on request
which justify the basis for the fee amount.
   (F)   The district shall make findings with respect to any portion of the
fee remaining unexpended or uncommitted in its account five or more years after
deposit of the fee to identify the purpose to which the fee is to be put and to
demonstrate a reasonable relationship between the fee and the purpose for which
it was charged. The district shall refund to the then-current record owner or
owners of the development project or projects on a prorated basis the
unexpended or uncommitted portion of the fee, and any interest accrued thereon,
for which need cannot be demonstrated. Fees expended by the district in good
faith and in accordance with the capital facilities plan are non-refundable if
the project does not proceed to completion. However, if the project later
proceeds, the fee paid shall apply ratably to the new development.
   (G)   (1)   By March 31 of each year following the year of original adoption
of resolution pursuant to this section, the district shall submit a copy of a
new resolution adopted by the governing body of the district at a noticed
public hearing making the required findings and setting the percentage of the
fire mitigation fee ceiling requested by the district.
      (2)   This percentage may be revised in the resolution, up to the ceiling
amount.
      (3)   This revision shall be effective the following July 1.
(1966 Code, § 15C-16) (Ord. 639, § 1(part))
§ 5.01.296 DELEGATION.
   (A)   Any resolution of the Board adopted pursuant to the provisions of this
article for the purpose of establishing, collecting and disbursing fire
mitigation fees shall be deemed a fee of the county established pursuant to the
police power and statutory authority of this county.
   (B)   Any actions or activities of any district undertaken in the
furtherance of this article shall be deemed a ministerial and/ or advisory
action delegated to the district by the county.
(1966 Code, § 15C-17) (Ord. 639, § 1(part))
ARTICLE IX. LAW ENFORCEMENT IMPACT FEE
§ 5.01.310 SHORT TITLE.
   The fee charged pursuant to this article shall be known as the “Law
Enforcement Impact Fee.”
(1966 Code, § 15D-1) (Ord. 574, § 1(part); Ord. 962, § 6, 2017)
§ 5.01.311 PURPOSE OF ARTICLE.
   The purpose of the Law Enforcement Impact Fee is to generate revenue to
defray costs of law enforcement facilities necessitated by new development
projects in the county.
(1966 Code, § 15D-2) (Ord. 574, § 1(part); Ord. 962, § 7, 2017)
§ 5.01.312 FINDINGS.
   The Board of Supervisors finds as follows:
   (A)   The increasing volume of construction of residences and non-
residential buildings continues to generate a greater demand for law
enforcement facilities and services.
   (B)   In order to provide law enforcement facilities and services required
by new development, a law enforcement impact fee is necessary.
   (C)   The fee shall be imposed on both residential and non-residential
development, since these types of developments both place burdens on law
enforcement facilities and services. Law enforcement includes, without
limitation, the Sheriff’s Office, Probation Department, District Attorney,
County Counsel, Planning and Building, Health Department and other departments
to the extent each department is involved in the enforcement of state laws and
county ordinances.
(1966 Code, § 15D-3) (Ord. 574, § 1(part); Ord. 962, § 8, 2017)
§ 5.01.313 ESTABLISHMENT OF LAW ENFORCEMENT IMPACT FUND.
   All impact fees collected pursuant to this article shall be placed into
special funds which are created and established for the purposes specified in
this article. The special funds shall be known as the law enforcement impact
funds.
(1966 Code, § 15D-4) (Ord. 574, § 1(part); Ord. 962, § 9, 2017)
§ 5.01.314 USE OF LAW ENFORCEMENT IMPACT FUNDS.
   Revenue in the law enforcement impact funds shall be used for the financing
or the acquisition of capital expenditures, projects or improvements related to
law enforcement.
(1966 Code, § 15D-5) (Ord. 574, § 1(part); Ord. 962, § 10, 2017)
§ 5.01.315 [RESERVED.]
§ 5.01.316 [RESERVED.]
§ 5.01.317 FEES.
   The Law Enforcement Impact Fee shall be imposed in the amount of $1,518 per
single family residence, $1,390 per multi-family residence, $0.292 per square
foot of commercial development, $0.221 per square foot of office development,
and $0.132 per square foot of industrial development.
(1966 Code, § 15D-8) (Ord. 574, § 1(part); Ord. 962, § 12, 2017)
§ 5.01.318 [RESERVED.]
§ 5.01.319 [RESERVED.]
§ 5.01.320 FEE PAYMENT.
   (A)   Prior to issuance of a building permit, an applicant shall pay to the
Building Department the fees prescribed by ordinance or resolution.
   (B)   The amount of the fee shall be determined by the rate in effect on the
date that payment is tendered.
   (C)   In the event that subsequent development occurs with respect to
property for which fees have been paid, additional fees shall be required only
for additional square footage of development that was not included in computing
the prior fee.
(1966 Code, § 15D-11) (Ord. 574, § 1(part); Ord. 948, § 3, 2016; Ord. 962, §
14, 2017)
§ 5.01.321 ANNUAL REPORT.
   (A)   Annually, the county Administrative Officer pursuant to state law,
including Cal. Gov’t Code § 66001, shall prepare a report on the status of the
impact fee fund for the Board of Supervisors. The report shall include the
balance of the impact fee fund at the end of the previous fiscal year, the fee
revenue received during the previous fiscal year, and the need for the
continuing collection of the impact fees.
   (B)   Following presentation of the report by the county’s Administrative
Officer, the Board shall take whatever action is appropriate.
(1966 Code, § 15D-12) (Ord. 574, § 1(part))
§ 5.01.322 EXEMPTIONS.
   The following development projects are exempt from paying the impact fee:
   (A)   (1)   Building permits for certain types of development are exempt
from the requirements of this article since this type of development does not
significantly add to the impact on capital improvements. The following types of
development are exempt from the requirements of this article.
      (2)   Building permit for:
         (a)   Pools;
         (b)   Fences; and
         (c)   Additions or alterations with a value of $5,000 or less.
   (B)   (1)   No law enforcement impact fee shall apply to the reconstruction
of any residential, commercial or industrial structure that is damaged or
destroyed as a result of a natural disaster, as declared by the Governor of the
State of California. Any reconstruction which is not substantially equivalent
to the damaged or destroyed property shall be deemed new construction and to
that portion the law enforcement impact fee shall apply.
      (2)   No law enforcement impact fee shall apply for an applicant who
desires to voluntarily destroy an existing structure for a replacement
structure if the replacement structure contains the same, or less, square
footage as the previously existing structure. If the replacement structure
contains more square footage than the previously existing structures, the law
enforcement impact fee shall apply only to the excess square footage. This
exemption applies only when an applicant applies for a development permit and
waiver of the law enforcement impact fee in advance of the destruction of the
previously existing structure and only if the previous existing structure could
have been legally occupied at the time of destruction.
   (C)   If a structure is destroyed by a fire or other natural calamity, which
is not proclaimed a natural disaster by the Governor of the State of
California, no impact fee shall be required for the replacement of the existing
structure when the replacement structure contains the same, or less, square
footage as the previously existing structure. If the replacement structure
contains more square footage than the previously existing structure, the impact
fee shall apply only to the excess square footage.
   (D)   If an applicant desires to voluntarily destroy an existing structure,
no impact fee shall apply for the replacement of the existing structure when
the replacement structure contains the same, or less, square footage as the
previously existing structure. If the replacement structure contains more
square footage than the previously existing structures, the impact fee shall
apply only to the excess square footage. This exemption applies only when an
applicant applies for a development permit and waiver of impact fees in advance
of the destruction of the previously existing structure and only if the
previous existing structure could have been legally occupied at the time of
destruction.
(1966 Code, § 15D-13) (Ord. 574, § 1(part); Ord. 962, § 15, 2017)
§ 5.01.323 FAILURE TO PAY IMPACT FEE.
   The county shall not conduct a final inspection, or issue a certificate of
occupancy, if an applicant does not pay any required law enforcement impact
fee. The applicant shall not cause, or allow the occupation of a structure
without payment of the impact fee when the fee is required by this article.
(1966 Code, § 15D-14) (Ord. 574, § 1(part); Ord. 962, § 16, 2017)
§ 5.01.324 VIOLATIONS.
   A violation of any provision of this article constitutes a public nuisance,
per se.
(1966 Code, § 15D-15) (Ord. 574, § 1(part))
§ 5.01.325 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Violation of article; criminal. Any person violating any of the
provisions of this article shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction thereof, shall be punished as provided in
Chapter 1.03 of the San Benito County Code.
   (B)   Violation of article; public nuisance. Any violation of this article
is unlawful and a public nuisance and shall be abated, eliminated and enjoined
as provided in
Chapter 1.03 of the San Benito County Code.
   (C)   Remedies cumulative. Except as otherwise provided by law, the remedies
provided in this article are cumulative and not exclusive. Nothing in this
article is intended, or shall be deemed or construed, to limit or impair the
ability of the county, or any of its officers, agents or employees, to take any
administrative or judicial action, otherwise authorized by law, to abate any
public nuisance.
Chapter 1.03 of the San Benito County Code is incorporated by reference as
though its provisoes were fully set forth herein.
(1966 Code, § 15D-16) (Ord. 574, § 1(part))
ARTICLE X. FIRE DEPARTMENT FEES AND CHARGES
§ 5.01.340 AUTHORITY.
   (A)   Pursuant to Cal. Health and Safety Code § 13916, the San Benito County
Board of Supervisors is authorized to charge fees to cover the cost of any
service which the Fire Department provides or the cost of enforcing any
regulation for which the fee is charged.
   (B)   The Fire Department is further authorized to issue permits required by
Article 4 of the Uniform Fire Code to maintain, store, use or handle materials,
to conduct processes which produce conditions hazardous to life or property, or
to install equipment used in connection with the activities.
   (C)   This article establishing authority and methods for establishing and
collecting fees for permits and services is to provide for the recovery of
costs to the Fire Department for enforcing regulations or providing services.
(1966 Code, § 15E-1) (Ord. 788, § 1(part))
§ 5.01.341 STANDARD FOR SETTING FEES.
   Fees shall not exceed the estimated reasonable cost of enforcing the
regulation or providing the service for which the fee is charged. The fees will
be based on a minimum charge of one hour, unless otherwise identified on
schedule.
(1966 Code, § 15E-2) (Ord. 788, § 1(part))
§ 5.01.342 SCHEDULE OF FEES.
   The schedule of fees will be in accordance with the resolution that may be
adopted by the Board of Supervisors from time to time.
   (A)   Building plan check: reviews, plan checks and inspections of new
construction, remodels and additions (including, but not limited to, carports,
garages and decks):
      (1)   Plan check of unsprinldered occupancies:
         (a)   Single-family;
         (b)   Residential (R-1); and
         (c)   Commercial/industrial.
      (2)   Plan check of sprinklered occupancies:
         (a)   Single-family;
         (b)   Residential (R-1); and
         (c)   Commercial/industrial.
   (B)   Sprinkler system plan check (existing structures):
      (1)   (a)   Sprinkler plan check:
            1.   NFPA 13D; and
            2.   NFPA 13 and 13R.
         (b)   Costs depend upon number of heads.
      (2)   Minimum sprinkler addition/remodel fee;
      (3)   Computer calculation engineering fees; and
      (4)   Underground fire line permit/plan check (installed by other than
fire sprinkler contractor).
   (C)   Alarm system plan check:
      (1)   Alarm system plan checks; and
      (2)   Alarm system engineering fees.
   (D)   Fire extinguishing system plan check:
      (1)   Systems; and
      (2)   Extinguishing systems engineering fees.
   (E)   Building plan review;
   (F)   Discretionary/minor land division plan check;
   (G)   Addition inspection fees:
      (1)   Third plan re-submittal;
      (2)   Construction or installation prior to plan approval;
      (3)   Field appointment fees:
         (a)   Missed appointments (15-minute waiting time);
         (b)   Excessive appointments (more than two appointments per test);
         (c)   Unprepared for scheduled appointments; and
         (d)   After normal business hours appointments.
      (4)   Professional engineering fees.
   (H)   Requested inspections:
      (1)   Escrow inspection clearance;
      (2)   Occupancy use change inspections;
      (3)   Day care facility (seven or more persons); and
      (4)   Board and care facility.
   (I)   Special services:
      (1)   Depositions/interviews for civil litigation;
      (2)   Fire prevention reports;
      (3)   Photographs;
      (4)   Miscellaneous permits;
      (5)   Outside technical support/interfacing with consultants. (Applicants
are responsible for securing outside technical support for projects beyond the
scope and experience of the San Benito County Fire Department);
      (6)   Weed abatement:
         (a)   Weed abatement (future addition); and
         (b)   Administrative fee.
      (7)   Excessive number of reinspections on occupancy fire inspection
program, in excess of two reinspections (each occupancy to receive one
inspection and two reinspections before fee implementation);
      (8)   Fire Department personnel standby as required by the Uniform Fire
Code;
      (9)   Returned check fee; and
      (10)   Administrative fees associated with Fire Department citations such
as late payment, citation processing and legal recourse resulting from the
collection process.
(1966 Code, § 15E-3) (Ord. 788, § 1(part))
ARTICLE XI. CRIMINAL JUSTICE ADMINISTRATIVE FEES
§ 5.01.355 FEE IMPOSED.
   (A)   There is hereby imposed upon every city, special district, school
district, community college district, college or university, a fee equal to the
administrative costs, including applicable overhead costs, as determined from
time to time by ordinance, of booking or other processing at any county jail
every person arrested by an employee of such city, special district, college or
university and brought to the county jail facility for booking or detention.
   (B)   The fees shall be payable on account of every booking or processing of
a person at a county jail on and after July 1, 1990.
   (C)   For the purpose of this fee, the term COUNTY JAIL means and includes
every detention facility in the county operated under the control of the
county’s Sheriff-Coroner.
   (D)   Effective on and after September 1, 1991, the amount of the criminal
justice administrative (booking fee) is hereby set at $42.33 per hour or $10.61
per each 15-minute increment or fraction thereof for the actual time involved
in the booking or detention of a person at a county jail.
(1966 Code, § 21A-1) (Ord. 597, § 2; Ord. 589, § 1(part); Ord. 602, § 2)
§ 5.01.356 CLERK-AUDITOR-RECORDER REPORT.
   Not later than November 30 in every calendar year and otherwise as ordered
by the Board of Supervisors from time to time, the Clerk-Auditor-Recorder shall
report to the Board of Supervisors the administrative costs, including the
applicable overhead costs permitted by the federal circular A-87 standards last
approved by the State of California for the county, of booking or other
processing of a person at any county jail. The report shall constitute a
proposed fee pursuant to this article.
(1966 Code, § 21A-2) (Ord. 589, § 1(part))
§ 5.01.357 PUBLIC HEARING.
   (A)   After this receipt of a report from the Clerk-Auditor-Recorder of the
administrative costs of booking, or other processing of, a person brought to a
county jail for booking or detention, the Board of Supervisors shall direct
that a public hearing be held at which any person may file written objections
to the proposed fee or otherwise make oral or written presentations concerning
the proposed fee at a regularly scheduled meeting of the Board of Supervisors.
   (B)   The Clerk of the Board shall publish notice of the time and place of
the hearing and a general explanation of the matter to be considered as
required by Cal. Gov’t Code § 54994.1; and the Clerk of the Board shall mail
notice of the hearing, including a general explanation of the matter to be
considered, and a statement that the data required by the section is available
as required by Cal. Gov’t Code § 54986, together with a copy of the report, to
every city, special district, school district, community college district,
college or university in the county.
(Ord. 589 § 1(part))
§ 5.01.358 FINDINGS AND OBJECTIONS.
   (A)   After hearing, the Board of Supervisors shall make findings and
determinations on the report and on each written objection received, and shall
determine the amount of the fee which may be imposed for the booking or other
processing of a person brought to a county jail for booking or detention.
   (B)   The Clerk of the Board shall mail a copy of the Board’s findings and
determinations to every city, special district, school district, community
college district, college or university in the county.
(Ord. 589 § 1(part))
§ 5.01.359 FEE DETERMINATION.
   After hearing and after making findings and determinations on the report and
the written objections received, the Board of Supervisors may introduce and
adopt an ordinance determining the amount of the fee to be imposed for the
booking, or other processing, of a person brought to a county jail for booking
or detention.
(Ord. 589 § 1(part))
§ 5.01.360 COLLECTION OF BOOKING FEES.
   (A)    The Clerk-Auditor-Recorder shall submit a monthly invoice to every
city, special district, school district, community college district, college or
university, for the criminal justice administrative fees owed by such entity
for the prior month and for fees not invoiced for previous months.
   (B)   If any invoice for criminal justice administration fees remains unpaid
after 30 days, in addition to other remedy otherwise available to it, the
county may retain up to one half of the property taxes to which the
jurisdiction may otherwise be entitled, but not to exceed the amount of such
invoice plus accrued interest.
   (C)   Any invoice for criminal justice administrative fees which remains
unpaid in whole or in part after 30 days, shall bear interest at the legal rate
per annum established pursuant to Cal. Code of Civil Procedure § 685.010 on the
unpaid balance thereof.
(Ord. 589 § 1(part))
§ 5.01.361 REGULATIONS.
   The county administrative officer is authorized to adopt regulations
governing the application and administration of the criminal justice
administrative fee for the booking or other processing of arrested persons
brought to any county jail for booking or detention.
(Ord. 589 § 1(part))
ARTICLE XII. SEARCH AND RESCUE COSTS
§ 5.01.375 REIMBURSEMENT FOR SEARCH AND RESCUE OPERATIONS.
   Whenever the County of San Benito pays another county pursuant to Cal. Gov’t
Code § 26614.5 for the search and rescue expenses incurred by that county in
the search of or rescue of a resident of San Benito County, the resident for
whose benefit the search and rescue operation is conducted shall reimburse the
County of San Benito the entire sum paid to the other county by San Benito
County.
(1966 Code, § 2-59) (Ord. 534, § 1(part))
§ 5.01.376 PAYMENT DUE.
   Payment by the San Benito County resident to the County of San Benito is due
60 days after the County of San Benito pays the search and rescue expenses to
another county. The Sheriff of the County of San Benito shall mail to the San
Benito County resident an invoice detailing the expenses owed to San Benito
County and informing the resident of his or her obligation to pay the same.
(1966 Code, § 2-60) (Ord. 534, § 1(part))
§ 5.01.377 FAILURE TO PAY.
   A resident’s failure to pay any obligation within the time limits imposed by
this article will result in the imposition of interest on the amount owed at
the legal rate of 10% per year.
(1966 Code, § 2-61) (Ord. 534, § 1(part))
§ 5.01.378 ENFORCEMENT.
   The County of San Benito may enforce the provisions of the preceding
sections in this article by any civil remedy available under the law. Any
judgment in favor of the County of San Benito may include, at the discretion of
the trial court, an award of costs, reasonable attorneys’ fees and other
appropriate damages. These damages may include the reasonable value and
expenses incurred by the county staff to enforce this article, including all
costs through judgment. Should the defendant prevail over the county in the
enforcement action, this article does not authorize the award of costs or
attorneys’ fees, both of which shall not be awarded, unless otherwise
authorized by law.
(1966 Code, § 2-62) (Ord. 534, § 1(part))
ARTICLE XIII. IMPACT FEE REIMBURSEMENT
§ 5.01.390 REFUND OF FEES PAID.
   (A)   If a development permit expires, is cancelled, is withdrawn, or is
voided and if no construction has taken place on the project and the applicant
has not implemented the proposed use, the applicant shall be entitled to a
refund of any impact fees paid as set forth below.
   (B)   Any refund shall be reduced or eliminated to the extent that the
impact fees paid have been expended.
   (C)   A written request for a refund shall be submitted to the Planning
Department within 30 calendar days of the expiration or termination of the
permit. Failure to timely submit the required application for refund shall
constitute a waiver of any right to the refund.
   (D)   Any refund shall be reduced by an amount necessary to cover the
administrative cost to the county for processing the refund. The administrative
cost for processing a refund pursuant to this section shall be established in
an adopted county fee, or if none, documented by actual accounting of any work
performed related to the processing of the refund.
   (E)   Any refund shall not include any interest accrued.
   (F)   The Planning Director shall make the findings whether a refund is
warranted, and then forward the claim to the auditor's office for processing.
Refunds larger than $10,000 shall be brought before the Board of Supervisors
for approval.
   (G)   Impact fees collected by the county on behalf of other agencies or
entities are not refundable by the county. An application for refund must be
made to those entities directly.
(Ord. 880, § 1)
ARTICLE XIV. LIBRARY FACILITY IMPACT FEES
§ 5.01.450 TITLE.
   This article shall be known as the “Library Facility Impact Fee.”
(Ord. 945, § 1(part), 2016)
§ 5.01.451 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The Public Facilities and Services Element of the County General Plan
includes goal to provide for new libraries, commensurate with population
growth, that are accessible and provide opportunities for life-long learning,
enabling residents to obtain skills to meet the needs of evolving business
sectors.
   (B)   The County General Plan includes a requirement of new development to
pay its fair share of public facility and service costs.
   (C)   New development within the unincorporated area of the county will
generate the need for the construction of new facilities and/or renovation of
existing ones to meet the demands of the new development.
   (D)   The purpose of this article is to impose development impact fees to
fund the cost of certain library facilities, the need for which is directly or
indirectly generated by the type and level of development proposed within the
unincorporated area, consistent with Article XI, Section 7 of the California
Constitution and the Mitigation Fee Act (Cal. Gov’t Code §§ 66000 et seq.).
(Ord. 945, § 1(part), 2016)
§ 5.01.452 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADMINISTRATIVE CHARGE. The component of the development impact fee for
amounts spent, or authorized to be spent, in connection with the collection,
calculation, processing, program development and other management of the
development impact fees and Development Impact Fee Program.
   BOARD. The Board of Supervisors of the County.
   BUILDING PERMIT(S). The permit(s) issued or required for the construction,
improvement, or remodeling of any structure pursuant to and as defined by the
county Building Code.
   COSTS. Amounts spent, or authorized to be spent, in connection with the
planning, financing, acquisition and development of library facilities
consistent with the Library Facilities Impact Fee Study including, without
limitation, the costs of site acquisition, site improvements, construction,
engineering, design, consulting fees, permit fees, furnishing, materials
collection, and administration.
   COUNTY. The County of San Benito.
   DEVELOPMENT IMPACT FEES. The fees levied by this article upon the approval
of a building permit within the unincorporated area of the county.
   DEVELOPMENT IMPACT FEE PROGRAM. The plan entitled “Library Facilities Impact
Fee  Study,” adopted by resolution by the Board on April 26, 2016, for
financing of designated library facilities within the unincorporated area of
the county, including any amendments thereto.
   FACILITIES. Those library facilities specified in the Library Facilities
Impact Fee Study.
   FEE CATEGORY(IES). The categories of fees applicable to the types of
residential development.
   RESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENT. The original construction or installation of
single- family residential dwelling units or multi-family residential dwelling
units. These may include residential buildings typically called single-family
attached homes, duplexes, triplexes, quadplexes, townhomes, condominiums,
apartments, manufactured homes, mobile homes, and residential accessory
dwellings.
(Ord. 945, § 1(part), 2016)
§ 5.01.453 [RESERVED.]
§ 5.01.454 ESTABLISHMENT OF LIBRARY DEVELOPMENT IMPACT FEES.
   A separate development impact fee is hereby established and shall apply to
all residential development within the county in the amount of $1,290 for each
single family residence and $1,182 for each multi-family residence.
(Ord. 945, § 1(part), 2016; Ord. 962, § 18, 2017)
§ 5.01.455 ESTABLISHMENT AND ADMINISTRATION OF COUNTYWIDE LIBRARY FACILITIES
FUND.
   (A)   There is hereby established by the county a special interest-bearing
trust fund entitled the Countywide Library Facilities Fund. All development
impact fees collected pursuant to this article shall be placed in said Fund and
expended only for the purposes identified by this article.
   (B)   The Countywide Library Facilities Fund shall be administered by the
county.
(Ord. 945, § 1(part), 2016; Ord. 962, § 19, 2017)
§ 5.01.456 [RESERVED.]
§ 5.01.457 IMPOSITION OF DEVELOPMENT IMPACT FEES.
   No residential building permit shall be approved or issued for property
within the unincorporated area unless the development impact fees for that
property are paid as required by this article.
(Ord. 945, § 1(part), 2016)
§ 5.01.458 PAYMENT OF DEVELOPMENT IMPACT FEES.
   The development impact fees imposed pursuant to this article shall be paid
by the building permit applicants for residential development within the
county.
(Ord. 945, § 1(part), 2016; Ord. 962, § 21, 2017)
§ 5.01.459 EXEMPTION FROM DEVELOPMENT IMPACT FEES.
   The following shall be exempt from the development impact fees:
   (A)   Any replacement or reconstruction (no change in use) of any
residential unit. However, if the residential unit(s) replaced or reconstructed
exceeds the documented total number of units of the original residential
structure, the excess units are subject to the development impact fees. If a
residential structure has been vacant for more than five years, the exemption
will not apply.
   (B)   Additions of single-family residential structures provided no change
in use occurs and a second full kitchen is not added.
   (C)   Additions to multi-family residential structures that are not part of
a mixed use type project provided no change in use occurs and no additional
units result.
   (D)   Non-habitable residential structures such as decks, pools, pool
cabanas, sheds, garages, and similar structures.
(Ord. 945, § 1(part), 2016)
§ 5.01.460 ANNUAL PROGRAM FEE ADJUSTMENT.
   Beginning June 1, 2017, and thereafter each year by June 1 (or as soon
thereafter as administratively may be processed), the County Resource
Management Agency Director shall authorize the adjustment of the development
impact fees for each fee category as follows:
   (A)   A “mean” index will be computed by averaging the index for 20 U.S.
cities with the index for San Francisco by resorting to the January issue of
the Engineering News Record magazine Building Cost Index of the year in which
the calculation is being made.
   (B)   An adjustment factor shall be computed by dividing the “mean” index as
calculated in division (A) of this section by the “mean” index for the previous
January; however, the June 2017 adjustment factor shall be computed by dividing
the “mean” index as calculated in division (A) of this section by the “mean”
index for June 1, 2016, and, if a new development impact fee has been adopted
after January of the previous year, the adjustment factor shall use the “mean”
index from the month that the fee was adopted.
   (C)   The new development impact fee per fee category shall be calculated by
multiplying the adjustment factor, as calculated in division (B) of this
section, by the development impact fees per fee category in place prior to the
annual adjustment.
   (D)   The costs of the facilities used in the Development Impact Fee Program
shall be adjusted annually using the same adjustment factor pursuant to
divisions (A), (B) and (C) of this section.
(Ord. 945, § 1(part), 2016)
§ 5.01.461 ALTERNATIVE METHOD AND COMPLIANCE WITH OTHER LAWS.
   This article is intended to establish a supplemental method for funding the
cost of certain library facilities, the need for which will be generated by the
level and type of development proposed within the county. The provisions of
this article shall not be construed to limit the power of the Board to impose
any other fees or exactions or to continue to impose existing fees or exactions
on development within the affected area of the county, but shall be in addition
to any other requirements which the Board is authorized to impose, or has
previously imposed, as a condition of approving plans, rezones or other
entitlements within the affected area of the county pursuant to state and local
laws. Individual property owners shall remain obligated to fund, construct,
and/or dedicate the improvements, public facilities and other exactions
required for the development.
(Ord. 945, § 1(part), 2016; Ord. 962, § 22, 2017)
ARTICLE XV. GENERAL GOVERNMENT IMPACT FEE
§ 5.01.510 TITLE.
   This article shall be known as the “General Government Impact Fee.”
(Ord. 962, § 24, 2017)
§ 5.01.520 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this article is to impose development impact fees to fund the
cost of general government facilities, the need for which is generated by new
development within the county.
(Ord. 962, § 25, 2017)
§ 5.01.530 IMPOSITION OF FEE.
   The General Government Impact Fee shall be imposed on new development within
the county in the amount of $2,614 for each single family residence, $2,395 for
each multi-family residence, $0.504 per square foot of commercial development,
$0.383 per square foot of office development, and $0.226 per square foot of
industrial development.
(Ord. 962, § 26, 2017)
§ 5.01.540 PAYMENT OF FEE.
   No building permit shall be approved or issued for property within the
county unless the development impact fee for that property is paid as required
by this article.
(Ord. 962, § 27, 2017)
ARTICLE XVI. ROAD MAINTENANCE IMPACT FEE
§ 5.01.610 TITLE.
   This article shall be known as the “Road Maintenance Impact Fee.”
(Ord. 962, § 29, 2017)
§ 5.01.620 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this article is to impose development impact fees to fund the
cost of road maintenance equipment, the need for which is generated by new
development within the county.
(Ord. 962, § 30, 2017)
§ 5.01.630 IMPOSITION OF FEE.
   The Road Maintenance Impact Fee shall be imposed on new development within
the county in the amount of $598 for each single family residence, $548 for
each multi-family residence, $0.114 per square foot of commercial development,
$0.087 per square foot of office development, and $0.051 per square foot of
industrial development.
(Ord. 962, § 31, 2017)
§ 5.01.640 PAYMENT OF FEE.
   No building permit shall be approved or issued for property within the
county unless the development impact fee for that property is paid as required
by this article.
(Ord. 962, § 32, 2017)
ARTICLE XVII. DETENTION FACILITIES IMPACT FEE
§ 5.01.710 TITLE.
   This article shall be known as the “Detention Facilities Impact Fee.”
(Ord. 962, § 34, 2017)
§ 5.01.720 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this article is to impose development impact fees to fund the
cost of detention facilities, the need for which is generated by new
development within the county.
(Ord. 962, § 35, 2017)
§ 5.01.730 IMPOSITION OF FEE.
   The Detention Facilities Impact Fee shall be imposed on new development
within the county in the amount of $2,614 for each single family residence,
$2,395 for each multi-family residence, $0.504 per square foot of commercial
development, $0.383 per square foot of office development, and $0.226 per
square foot of industrial development.
(Ord. 962, § 36, 2017)
§ 5.01.740 PAYMENT OF FEE.
   No building permit shall be approved or issued for property within the
county unless the development impact fee for that property is paid as required
by this article.
(Ord. 962, § 37, 2017)
ARTICLE XVIII. INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY IMPACT FEE
§ 5.01.810 TITLE.
   This article shall be known as the “Information Technology Impact Fee.”
(Ord. 962, § 39, 2017)
§ 5.01.820 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this article is to impose development impact fees to fund the
cost of information technology infrastructure and equipment, the need for which
is generated by new development within the county.
(Ord. 962, § 40, 2017)
§ 5.01.830 IMPOSITION OF FEE.
   The Information Technology Impact Fee shall be imposed on new development
within the county in the amount of $266 for each single family residence, $244
for each multi-family residence, $0.051 per square foot of commercial
development, $0.039 per square foot of office development, and $0.023 per
square foot of industrial development.
(Ord. 962, § 41, 2017)
§ 5.01.840 PAYMENT OF FEE.
   No building permit shall be approved or issued for property within the
county unless the development impact fee for that property is paid as required
by this article.
(Ord. 962, § 42, 2017)
APPENDIX A
Master Fee Schedule
Number Description Fee Unit
Master Fee Schedule
Number Description                                                                   Fee        Unit
ANIMAL CONTROL
1      Dog License
      Spayed/neutered dog 1 year                                                    $9         Per year/dog
      Spayed/neutered dog 2 years                                                   $13        Per 2 years/dog
      Spayed/neutered dog 3 years                                                   $18        Per 3 years/dog
      Not spayed/neutered dog 1 year                                                $18        Per year/dog
      Not spayed/neutered dog 2 years                                               $28        Per 2 years/dog
      Not spayed/neutered dog 3 years                                               $36        Per 3 years/dog
2      Tags                                                                          $2         Replacement
3      Charges to be debt to the county                                              $25        To apply towards attorney’s fees for the plaintiff or compensation for staff
                                                                                                time, and included in and assessed as recoverable court costs in such action
4      Microchipping (dog/cat)                                                       $28        Each
5      Impound (licensed)                                                            $25        Each
6      Impound (unlicensed)                                                          $35        Each
7      Impound - second offense                                                      $56        Second offense
8      Cat impound                                                                   $25        Per cat
9      Owner euthanasia                                                              $32        Each
10     Owner surrender                                                               $20        Each
11     Owner animal disposal                                                         $12        Each
12     Rabies tags                                                                   $10        Each
AGRICULTURE - WEIGHTS AND MEASURING
Issuance of certificates and similar activities
1      Phytosanitary, quarantine compliance, seed service samples, brown garden      $75         
       snai; and similar characteristics
2      Certified producer certificates                                               $50         
3      Farmers market certificate                                                    $100        
Registration of licensed pesticide users/farm labor contractor
1      Pest control operator                                                         $50         
2      Pest control advisor; primary                                                 $10         
3      Pest control advisor; secondary or additional registration                    $5          
4      Pest control pilot; primary                                                   $10         
5      Pest control pilot; secondary or additional registration                      $5          
6      Structural operator                                                           $10         
7      Maintenance gardener                                                          $10         
8      Farm labor contractor                                                         $25         
Annual commercial weighing and measuring device registration
1      Electric, vapor, and water meters                                             $100        
2      Scales (other than livestock) greater than 10,000 pounds                      $100        
3      Scales (other than livestock) 2,000 to 10,000 pounds                          $100        
4      Farm milk tanks                                                               -           
5      Livestock scales greater than 10,000 pounds                                   $100        
6      Livestock scales 2,000 to 10,000 pounds                                       $100        
7      Stationary and truck mounted LPG meters                                       $100        
8      Wholesale and vehicle meters                                                  $100        
9      Scales 100 to less than 2,000 pounds                                          $100        
10     Jewelry and prescription scales                                               $100        
11     Computing scales                                                              $100        
12     Vehicle odometers, passenger (towing, ambulance, limousine and the like)      $100        
       charges for services
13     Vehicle odometers, non-passenger (vehicle rental)                             $100        
14     All other commercial weighing and measuring devices                           $100        
15     Non-commercial and commercial weighing and measuring devices, owner/user      Actual time at the current weighted average hourly rate (WAHR)
       requested testing
Non-commercial and commercial weighing and measuring device
1      Non-fixed location sales: in-office inspection                                -           
Lettuce inspection service
1      Packed or head lettuce for chopping or shredding                              $0.05       
2      Inspection of packed lettuce - overtime                                       1.5 times the normal fee
Miscellaneous
1      Rodenticides/other pesticides                                                 Actual costs
2      Requested releasable information - copy                                       Actual time at the current weighted hourly average cost (WHAC)
4      Requested releasable information - records search                             Actual time at the current weighted hourly average cost (WHAC)
5      Special expense - fee delinquent after fifteenth, increase by 50%             1/2 hour of the current weighted hourly average cost (WHAC)
ASSESSOR’S OFFICE
Map reproduction
1      Parcel map 11 x 17                                                            $3         Each
2      11 or more parcel maps                                                        $2         Each
3      Contracted customer updated parcel map                                        $2         Each
Copies
4      Copy of aerial photos (letter sized paper)                                    $3         Each
5      Master property record hand copy (from printer)                               $2         Per page
6      Master property record hand copy (from counter)                               $3         Per page
7      Street name listing (approximately 33 pages)                                  $50        Each
8      Subdivision listing (approximately 20 pages)                                  $30        Each
9      Use code listing                                                              $1         Each
10     Legal or letter size copy                                                     $1         Each
Miscellaneous items
11     300 feet radius ownership (printout only - no labels)                         $25        Each
12     300 feet radius ownership (printout with labels)                              $50        Each
13     Computer - printer time                                                       $72        Each
14     Computer - minimum charge                                                     $36        each
15     Labor and research (1 hour minimum)                                           $72        Each
16     LCA - new applications, lot line adjustment, compatible use, cancellation     $910        
       request (see fee schedule per Resolution 2007-11)
17     Master property record on CD-ROM (includes sales tax)                         $250       Each
18     Property characteristics                                                      $20        Per parcel
CLERK TO THE BOARD OF SUPERVISORS
1      Application for changed assessment (per parcel)                               $45         
2      Board proceedings (recordings of without own cassette)                        Actual cost
3      Board proceedings (recordings with own cassette)                              Actual cost
4      Certification fee                                                             $5          
5      Documents in file (copies per page)                                           $0.25      Per page
6      Findings of fact - assessment appeal (deposit)                                $500       Per parcel
COUNTY CLERK/RECORDER/REGISTRAR OF VOTERS
Recording fees - Recorder’s fees
1      First page of all titles not associated with the Real Estate Fraud Fee (8 ½" $15         
       x 11")
2      Each additional page of document                                              $3          
3      SB-2 recording fee may be applied; per real estate instrument, paper, or      $75         
       notice
4      Non-conforming page size (other than 8 ½" x 11")                             $3          
5      Release of lien by a local government entity (other than federal)             $15         
6      Documentary transfer tax (per $500)                                           $0.55       
7      Notification of involuntary lien (first debtor)                               $7          
8      Notification of involuntary lien (each additional debtor)                     $7          
9      Documents recorded without a preliminary change of ownership                  $20         
10     Conformed copies (each copy, if copy provided for confirming) (2 maximum)     $2          
11     Penalty print                                                                 $1         Per page
12     Map recording fee                                                             $9         First page
13a    Map recording fee                                                             $3         Each subsequent page
14     Each additional group of 10 names indexed (each group of 10 names after first $1          
       10 names)
14a    Each additional reference after first document referenced, excluding mining   $1          
       claims
15     Financing Statements (1-2 pages) 8 ½" x 11"; UCC search                      $10         
16     Financing statements (3 pages or more) 8 ½" x 11"                            $20         
Vital Records - Clerk’s Fees
1      Preliminary 20 day filing and notice                                          $50         
2      Birth certificate/search                                                      $25         
3      Birth certificate/search - government agencies                                $19         
4      Death certificate/search                                                      $21         
5      Death certificate/search - government agencies                                $18         
6      Fetal death certificate/search                                                $15         
7      Marriage certificate/search                                                   $11         
8      Marriage certificate/search - government agencies                             $15         
9      Confidential marriage certificate/search                                      $15         
10     Marriage license/public (cash only)                                           $75         
11     Marriage license/confidential - restrictions apply (cash only)                $85         
12     Duplicate marriage license (cash only)                                        $20         
13     Filing affidavit to amend confidential marriage certificate (one year or more $20         
       after the date of marriage)
14     Deputy Commissioner for one day                                               $75         
15     Witness fee (for the required witness at marriage ceremonies)                 $10         
16     Performing civil marriage ceremony in office                                  $50         
Fictitious Business Name Filings - Clerk’s fees
1      Fictitious business name (includes one owner)                                 $30         
2      Additional fictitious business name or partner name                           $7          
3      Abandonment of fictitious business name                                       $30         
4      Statement of withdrawal from partnership operating under FBN                  $30         
5      FBN standard marketing report (first page)                                    $15         
Miscellaneous Filings - Clerk’s Fees
1      ID cards for process server, professional photocopier, legal document         $10         
       assistant, or unlawful detainer assistant
2      Professional photocopier                                                      $175        
3      Unlawful detainer assistant filing                                            $175        
4      Legal document assistant filing                                               $175        
5      Process server filing                                                         $175        
6      Process server/professional photocopier filed at the same time                $100        
7      Filing bond (PP/UDA/LDA/PS)                                                   $7          
Miscellaneous Filings - Clerk-Recorder’s Fees
1      Power of Attorney - surety company (appointment or revocation) - first name   $15         
2      Power of Attorney - surety company (appointment or revocation) - each added   $7          
       name
3      Bond for legal document assistant (file, cancel, withdraw, or revoke), first  $15         
       page
4      Each additional page (bond)                                                   $3          
5      Bond for notary (file, cancel, withdraw, or revoke) first page                $15         
6      Each additional page (bond)                                                   $3          
7      Bond for process server (file, cancel, withdraw, or revoke) first page        $15         
8      Each additional page (bond)                                                   $3          
9      Bond for professional photocopier (file, cancel, withdraw, or revoke) first   $15         
       page
10     Each additional page (bond)                                                   $3          
11     Bond for unlawful detainer assistant (file, cancel, withdraw, or revoke)      $15         
       first page
12     Each additional page (bond)                                                   $3          
13     Notary Public filing (of oath) recording fee                                  $25         
       Notice of determination for which a negative declaration was prepared
14     pursuant to the Public Resource Code (includes County Clerk handling fee of   $2,324.75   
       $50)
15     Notice of determination with an Environmental Impact Report prepared pursuant $3,209.75   
       to the California Environmental Quality Act
16     Notice of exemption fee                                                       $50         
17     Notary signature authentication - first signature per notary                  $15         
18     Notary signature authentication - each additional signature after first for   $5          
       the same notary
20     Military record copies (DD+214)                                               No charge   
21     Clerk search - files or records                                               $5          
22     Certificate to the official capacity of any public official                   $10         
Copies/Maps
1      Official Clerk copies (first page per document) 8 ½" x 11"                   $5          
2      Official Clerk copies (each additional page per document) 8 ½" x 11"         $2          
3      Certified Clerk copies (first page) 8 ½" x 11"                               $20         
4      Certified Clerk copies (each additional page after first, same document)      $3          
5      Election copies/page including FPPC filings                                   $0.10       
6      Election compact disk - countywide/jurisdictional                             $40         
7      Election mailing labels/per sheet cost (30 labels per sheet)                  $0.19       
8      Certification under seal (per certified document)                             $20         
                                                                                     Per GIS
9      Election map                                                                  pricing     
                                                                                     schedule
10     Jurisdictions - minimum charge for jurisdictions that do not go to election   $400       Per jurisdiction per contest
       due to insufficient nominees
11     Research and compilation services                                             $37        Minimum
12     CD-ROM copies of statement of vote report                                     $40        per hour
13     Records over five years old and retrieval services fee                        $37         
                                                                                     Per GIS
14     Maps by district                                                              pricing     
                                                                                     schedule
Candidate Statement
                                                                                     $250 +
10     Candidate statement printed and online (200 words - 1/4 page each language)   $0.05/      
                                                                                     voter
                                                                                     $400 +
11     Candidate statement printed and online (250 words - ½ page each language)    $0.05/      
                                                                                     voter
                                                                                     $450 +
12     Candidate statement printed and online (400 words - ½ page each language)    $0.05/      
                                                                                     voter
13     Candidate statement online only (must be authorized by jurisdiction) (200-400 $150        
       words)
COUNTY COUNSEL
Non-Refundable Fees For Services/Applications
1      Outside counsel fee                                                           $450       Up to maximum amount per hour
2      Legal surcharge fee                                                           $125       Hourly rate
EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICE
Schedule A - Non-Refundable Fees For Services/Applications
      EMR
1      Emergency medical responder (EMR) certification                               $54        2 years
2      Emergency medical responder (EMR) re- certification                           $47        2 years
3      Certification - non-county resident who is not a local provider               $94        2 years
4      Re-certification - non-county resident who is not a local provider            $87        2 years
      EMT
5      Emergency medical technician (EMT) certification                              $60        2 years + state fees
6      Emergency medical technician (EMT) re- certification                          $53        2 years + state fees
7      Certification - non-county resident who is not a local provider               $94        2 years
8      Re-certification - non-county resident who is not a local provider            $87        2 years
      Paramedic
9      Paramedic - local accreditation                                               $150       Every 2 years
10     Paramedic - local re-accreditation                                            $99        Every 2 years
      Mobile Intensive Care Nurse (MICN)
11     Certification                                                                 $190       2 years
12     Re-certification                                                              $100       2 years
      Ambulance Provider Certificate of Operation
13     Ambulance provider certificate of operation - gurney/wheelchair van           $650       Annual fee
14     Ambulance provider certificate of operation - basic life support              $650       Annual fee
15     Ambulance provider certificate of operation - advanced life support           $750       Annual fee
16     Ambulance provider certificate of operation - critical care transport         $750       Annual fee
17     Ambulance provider certificate of operation - air ambulance support           $650       Annual fee
      Ambulance Permits - Annual Vehicle Fee
18     Ambulance permits - gurney/wheelchair van                                     $105       Annual vehicle fee
19     Ambulance permits - basic life support                                        $105       Annual vehicle fee
20     Ambulance permits - advanced life support                                     $150       Annual vehicle fee
21     Ambulance permits - critical care transport                                   $150       Annual vehicle fee
22     Ambulance permits - air ambulance support                                     NC         Annual vehicle fee
23     Ambulance permits - non-transport BLS/ALS unit                                $105       Annual vehicle fee
      Education Program Certification - Every 4 Years
24     CE program - initial and renewal (every 4 years)                              $250       Every 4 years
25     First aid/AED course approval                                                 $250       Annual fee
26     EMT training program - initial                                                $1,053      
27     Paramedic program                                                             $1,250      
28     EMT and paramedic program - renewal (every 4 years)                           $500       Every 4 years
29     Pre-hospital continuing education authorization                               NC          
      Education Program Certification - Every 4 Years
30     Training center approval                                                      $1,053     Every 4 years
31     Trauma center designation - annual fee                                        $4,700     Every 4 years
32     STEMI referral center designation - annual fee                                $4,700     Every 4 years
33     911 receiving center                                                          NC          
      Additional Services
34     Replacement card (certification, accreditation, and the like)                 $20        Per item
35     Photocopying first page                                                       $0.50      First page
36     Photocopying each additional page                                             $0.25      Additional pages
ENVIRONMENTAL HEALTH
Food Facilities
1      0-50 seats                                                                    $397        
2      51-75 seats                                                                   $589        
3      76-100 seats                                                                  $662        
4      100+ seats                                                                    $782        
Retail Facilities
5      < 2,000 square feet                                                           $324        
6      < 2,000 square feet + 1 food permit                                           $397        
7      < 2,000 square feet +2 food permit                                            $493        
8      < 2,000 square feet + 3 food permit                                           $589        
9      < 2,000 square feet + 4 food permit                                           $662        
10     2,000 square feet to 5,999 square feet                                        $445        
11     2,000 square feet to 5,999 square feet + 1 food prep                          $517        
12     2,000 square feet to 5,999 square feet + 2 food prep                          $589        
13     2,000 square feet to 5,999 square feet + 3 food prep                          $686        
14     2,000 square feet to 5,999 square feet + 4 food prep                          $782        
15     6,000 square feet or greater                                                  $541        
16     6,000 square feet or greater + 1 food prep                                    $638        
17     6,000 square feet or greater + 2 food prep                                    $734        
18     6,000 square feet or greater + 3 food prep                                    $879        
19     6,000 square feet or greater + 4 food prep                                    $975        
20     Bar only                                                                      $300        
21     Bar with restricted food service                                              $348        
22     Mobile food prep                                                              $397        
23     Stationary mobile food prep unit                                              $397        
24     Food vehicle                                                                  $276        
25     Non-motorized unit                                                            $174        
26     Mobile on-site food cart                                                      $201        
27     Commissary with food prep                                                     $493        
28     Commissary without food prep                                                  $397        
29     Food processing < 1,000 square feet                                           $300        
30     Food processing > 1,000 square feet                                           $397        
31     Minor food service                                                            $174        
32     Retail store with incidental                                                  $188        
33     Farm stay                                                                     $348        
34     Hotel/motel comp food                                                         $226        
35     Liquor store                                                                  $348        
36     Food salvage                                                                  $222        
37     Produce stand - value                                                         $348        
38     Bakery only < 2,000 square feet                                               $174        
39     Bakery only > 2,000 square feet                                               $348        
40     Food service                                                                  $397        
41     Homeless kitchen/shelter                                                      $174        
42     Catering business reg.                                                        $174        
43     Bed and breakfast                                                             $348        
Cottage Food Law
44     Class A registration                                                          $62         
45     Class B registration                                                          $62         
46     Class B plan check                                                            $397        
47     Class B permit                                                                $201        
Temporary Food Facility
48     1-2 days                                                                      $124        
49     3-4 days                                                                      $248        
50     5-7 days                                                                      $296        
51     8-25 days                                                                     $344        
52     Annual permit                                                                 $442        
53     Organizer permit                                                              $201        
54     TFF late registration                                                         $54         
55     Demo/free sample 1-2 days                                                     $110        
56     Demo/free sample 3-4 days                                                     $134        
57     Demo/free sample 5-7 days                                                     $223        
58     Demo/free sample 8-25 days                                                    $300        
59     Satellite distribution                                                        $420        
Certified Farmer’s Market
60     1-4 months (site specific)                                                    $124        
61     5-8 months (site specific)                                                    $250        
62     9-12 months (site specific)                                                   $274        
63     Organizer permit                                                              $589        
64     Temporary food permit - nonprofit                                             $124        
65     Pre-packaged/bottled beverages                                                $62         
66     Vending machine business                                                      $222        
Liquid Waste
67     Individual system                                                             $855        
68     Major repair - tank and leachfield                                            $855        
69     Minor repair - tank or leachfield                                             $445        
70     Engineered system                                                             $980        
71     Alternative/innovative system                                                 $2,148      
72     Commercial system                                                             $1,100      
73     Septic tank destruction                                                       $151        
74     Annual monitoring fee (where applicable)                                      Hourly      
75     Expired permit                                                                $1,287      
76     Individual sewage disposal evaluation sanitary facilities for public assembly $222        
       application
77     Application - add $2/toilet                                                   $174        
78     Septic tank and chemical toilet cleaning service (per vehicle)                $348        
Water Systems
79     Local small water system                                                      $306        
80     Water system evaluation                                                       $192        
81     UST minor repair                                                              $367        
82     UST major repair                                                              $560        
Housing Institutions
83     1-50 beds                                                                     $463        
84     51-100 beds                                                                   $662        
85     100+ beds                                                                     $1,072      
Housing Institutions
86     Solid waste vehicles                                                          $172        
Recreational Health
87     Public pools < 2,000 feet                                                     $367        
88     Public pools 2,000-4,999 square feet                                          $439        
89     Public pools 5,000 square feet                                                $536        
90     Spa                                                                           $367        
91     Wading pool                                                                   $367        
92     Special use pool                                                              $439        
93     Water carrier (domestic)                                                      $267        
94     Interactive water park                                                        $367        
      Food
95     Category #1 (liquor stores, produce stands)                                   $369        
96     Category #2 (bakeries, retail market without food prep)                       $562        
97     Category #3 (restaurant and retail market)                                    $900        
98     Remodel plan check - minor                                                    $246        
99     Remodel plan check - major                                                    $463        
      Swimming Pools
100    < 2,000 square feet                                                           $745        
101    2,001-4,999 square feet                                                       $851        
102    5,000 square feet spa                                                         $948        
103    Spa                                                                           $560        
104    Remodel - minor                                                               $294        
105    Remodel - major                                                               $536        
106    Replastering, refinishing, repiping                                           $367        
107    Interactive water park                                                        $900        
      CUPA Program
108    New facility - plan check                                                     $2,093      
109    Remodel - plan check                                                          $1,028      
110    CUPA surcharge                                                                $49         
111    CUPA UST surcharge                                                            $20         
112    CUPA CAL ARP surcharge                                                        $270        
113    CUPA APSA surcharge                                                           $26         
         CUPA Business Plans
114    Range 1                                                                       $343        
115    Range 2                                                                       $415        
116    Range 3                                                                       $560        
117    Range 4                                                                       $753        
118    Range 5                                                                       $849        
119    Range 6                                                                       $897        
Hazard Waste Generators
120    Range 1                                                                       $367        
121    Range 2                                                                       $415        
122    Range 3                                                                       $463        
123    Remediation plan review                                                       $560        
124    Remediation monitoring                                                        Hourly      
125    Haz Mat response                                                              Hourly      
126    Off-hours response                                                            2x hourly   
127    Haz Mat - monitoring wells                                                    $222        
CAL ARP
128    CAL ARP risk management initial review                                        $3,150      
129    CAL ARP annual operation fee                                                  $1,100      
130    Aboveground tanks                                                             $463        
131    Tiered permitting                                                             $562        
132    UGST operating permit                                                         $779        
133    Tank removal                                                                  $562        
134    Remediation plan review                                                       $562        
135    Remediation monitoring                                                        Hourly      
136    CAL ARP 5 year review                                                         Hourly      
Hazardous Waste Treatment/Tiered
137    Conditionally exempt facility - annual                                        $541        
138    Conditionally authorized facility                                             $782        
139    Permit by rule facility - annual                                              $1,028      
140    Standard permit facility                                                      $1,490      
141    Full permit facility - annual                                                 $2,141      
142    Farm business plan review                                                     $174        
143    Inspection time will be billed hourly                                         Hourly      
CUPA Program
144    Building projects                                                             $222        
Planning Projects
145    C-Dist. review - existing building                                            $222        
146    C-Dist. review - new building                                                 $222        
147    Certificate of compliance                                                     $222        
148    Lot line adjustment                                                           $124        
149    M-Dist. review - existing building                                            $222        
150    M-Dist. review - new building                                                 $222        
151    Major subdivision - tentative map 5-50 lots                                   $172        
152    Major subdivision - tentative map 50+ lots                                    $172        
153    Major subdivision - tentative map, no sewer and/or water                      $222        
154    NCR building site review                                                      $222        
155    Parcel merger                                                                 $222        
156    Preliminary map                                                               $124        
157    Reprocessing (minor change)                                                   $124        
158    Reversion of acreage                                                          $124        
159    Scenic corridor review                                                        $124        
160    Specific plan review                                                          $222        
161    Specific plan of land use                                                     $124        
162    Use permit - major: conditional                                               $222        
163    Use permit - oil well, oil/gas storage, labor camp                            $124        
164    Use permit - minor: rural home                                                $222        
165    Use permit - minor: senior second guest house, third unit                     $222        
166    Use permit - minor: temporary mobile home, fruit stand, kennel                $222        
167    Use permit renewal                                                            $114        
168    Variance                                                                      $124        
167    Zone change - filed with project                                              $124        
168    Zone change - filed separately                                                $124        
Body Art
171    Body art/permanent cosmetic registration card                                 $52         
172    Body art facility plan check                                                  $344        
173    Body art - temporary permit facility                                          $172        
174    Body art facility permit                                                      $220        
175    Lower ear lob piercing                                                        $172        
Body Art
176    Photocopying - first page                                                     $5          
177    Photocopying - second page and up                                             $0.25       
178    Returned checks                                                               $16.75      
179    Complaint inspection                                                          Hourly      
180    Reinspection after one normal inspection                                      $117        
181    Professional consultation                                                     Hourly      
182    Weekend inspection                                                            Hourly x2   
Septic Disposal System Begun or Completed Without First Obtaining a Permit
183    Individual system                                                             $1,510      
184    Alternative/innovative system                                                 $3,163      
185    Commercial system                                                             $2,104      
186    Commercial system (with WDR)                                                  $3,163      
Septic Disposal System (Permitted) Completed Without Final Inspection
187    Individual system                                                             $447        
188    Alternative/innovative system                                                 $815        
189    Commercial system                                                             $594        
190    Commercial system (with WDR)                                                  $815        
13     Hourly rate for services rendered                                             $110       Each
GEOGRAPHIC INFORMATION SYSTEMS DATA DISTRIBUTION/SERVICE FEES
1      Orthophotography (standard format)                                            $76        Per DVD
2      Vector GIS format (internet format)                                           Free        
                                                                                     downloa d
3      Vector GIS layers (standard format)                                           $76        Per DVD
4      Customer GIS services                                                         $103       Per hour
5      Create map layout                                                             Hourly     Hourly rate
                                                                                     rate
6      Convert data to non-standard format                                           Hourly     Hourly rate
                                                                                     rate
7      GIS or web based programming                                                  Hourly     Hourly rate
                                                                                     rate
8      Digitizing or scanning of paper to digital                                    Hourly     Hourly rate
                                                                                     rate
9      Field data collection (GPS receiver) or training                              Hourly     Hourly rate
                                                                                     rate
10     Plot existing map layout (per sheet) black and white                          $4         Per square foot
11     Plot existing map layout (per sheet) color                                    $7         Per square foot
12     Standard letter - black and white                                             $2         Per sheet
13     Standard letter - color                                                       $4         Per sheet
14     Standard tabloid - black and white                                            $5         Per sheet
15     Standard tabloid - color                                                      $9         Per sheet
16     Standard ANCI C size - black and white                                        $11        Per sheet
17     Standard ANCI C size - color                                                  $19        Per sheet
18     Standard ANCI D size - black and white                                        $19        Per sheet
19     Standard ANCI D size - color                                                  $32        Per sheet
20     Standard ANCI E size - black and white                                        $19        Per sheet
21     Standard ANCI E size - color                                                  $51        Per sheet
22     36 x 36 - black and white                                                     $20        Per sheet
23     36 x 36 - color                                                               $33        Per sheet
24     General plan land use map                                                     $4         Each
LIBRARY
Overdue Fines
1      21-day materials                                                              $0.25      Per day, maximum $6
2      14-day materials                                                              $1         Per day, maximum $6
3      7 and 14-day media                                                            $5         Per day, maximum $6
Lost or Damaged Item Fees
4      Audio/DVD                                                                     $3         Each, plus replacement costs
5      CD holder (jewel case)                                                        $1         Each
6      Barcodes/target tags                                                          $5         Per item
Library Card Fees
7      Replacement library card                                                      $5         Per card, first is free
Interlibrary Loan (ILL) Fees
8      Interlibrary loan fee (ILL)                                                   $2         Per item
Printing, Copying, and Scanning Fees
9      Black and white copies or prints, 8.5" x 11"                                  $0.15      Per page
10     Black and white copies or prints, 8.5" x 14"                                  $0.20      Per page
11     Color copies or prints, 8.5" x 11"                                            $0.50      Per page
12     Color copies or prints, 8.5" x 14"                                            $0.75      Per page
Passport Fees
13     Passport agency processing fee                                                $35        Per passport
14     Passport photos                                                               $15        Per person
Proctoring Fees
15     Proctoring fee                                                                $25        Per hour
MENTAL HEALTH
Outpatient Services
1      Collateral services                                                           $2.87      Staff minute
2      Assessment (including psychiatric evaluation)                                 $3.40      Staff minute
3      Individual therapy                                                            $3.40      Staff minute
4      Therapeutic behavioral services                                               $3.40      Staff minute
5      Group therapy                                                                 $3.40      Staff minute
6      Medication support                                                            $8.85      Staff minute
7      Crisis intervention                                                           $4.27      Staff minute
Case Management Brokerage Services
8      Case management brokerage                                                     $3.15      Staff minute
Day Treatment Services
9      Day treatment - half                                                          $158.54    Client day
10     Day treatment - full                                                          $222.67    Client day
11     Day rehabilitation - half                                                     $92.49     Client day
12     Day rehabilitation - full                                                     $131.24    Client day
Acute Hospital Inpatient Services (24-Hour)
13     Hospital inpatient                                                            $1,242.75  Client day
14     Hospital administrative day                                                   $419.10    Client day
Program Fee B Payment Agreement
15     Assessment                                                                    $91         
16     Individuals                                                                   $10         
17     Drug tests                                                                    $15         
18     Groups                                                                        $75         
Program Fee A Payment Agreement
19     Assessment                                                                    $91         
20     Individuals                                                                   $34         
21     Drug tests                                                                    $30         
22     Groups                                                                        $395        
Miscellaneous
23     Records research fee                                                          $59        $0.50/per page
PUBLIC HEALTH
1      Birth certificate                                                             $25        Each
2      Death certificate                                                             $21        Each
3      Marijuana card issuance                                                       $100       Each
PROBATION*
1      Transfer-out fee                                                              $350        
2      ICOTS transfer fee                                                            $350        
3      Adult pre-plea report                                                         $600        
4      Adult pre-sentence investigation fee (PSI)                                    $600        
5      Electronic monitoring program - adult                                         $40/$60    Daily
6      Electronic monitoring program application - adult                             $50         
7      Parenting class referral fee                                                  $50         
8      Domestic violence referral fee                                                $50         
9      Anger management referral fee                                                 $50         
10     Community service referral fee                                                $50         
11     Adult supervision fee                                                         $50         
RESOURCE MANAGEMENT AGENCY
RMA: Building
1      Structural and architectural plan review                                      65% of      
                                                                                     permit fee
2      Plumbing/electrical/mechanical plan review                                    55% of structural/architectural plan review
3      Master plan verification review (subdivisions)                                75% of structural/architectural plan review
4      Planning division plan check                                                  15% of      
                                                                                     permit fee
5      Engineering division plan check                                               15% of     Includes storm water review
                                                                                     permit fee
6      Property inquiry fee                                                          $89         
7      Inspector training fee                                                        Set by     Allowed by Cal. Health and Safety Code § 18949.29
                                                                                     state
8      Building permit/application extension request fee                             $176        
9      Accessibility hardship exemption                                              $158        
10     CALGreen Construction and Demolition (C&D) Recycling Compliance fee           $128       Per covered permit
                                                                                     3rd party
11     Fees assessed by other agencies                                               cost plus   
                                                                                     10% admin
12     Investigations as determined by the Chief Building Official                   $139       Per hour, minimum 4 hours
13     Inspections outside of normal business hours                                  $259       Per hour, minimum 4 hours
14     Reinspection fees**                                                           $172       Per hour, minimum 1 hour
15     Inspections for which no fee is specifically indicated**                      $172       Per hour, minimum 1 hour
16     Additional plan review required by changes, additions, or revisions to plans  $42        Per hour, minimum 1 hour
17     Permit reactivation***                                                        $110       Per hour, minimum 2 hours
18     Request for duplicate plans                                                   $145        
19     Duplicate permit                                                              $500        
20     Temporary certificate of occupancy                                            $305        
21     For use of outside consultants for plan checking and inspections, or both     Actual      
                                                                                     costs
Established Fees
1      Minimum permit fee                                                            $172       Per permit
2      Kitchen remodel/alteration - non-structural                                   $714        
3      Bathroom remodel/alteration - non-structural                                  $507        
4      Power room remodel/alteration                                                 $382        
5      Residential window replacement permit                                         $176       1-12 windows
6      Residential window replacement permit                                         $331       13 or more windows
7      Residential patio door replacement permit                                     $279       1-4 doors
8      Residential patio door replacement permit                                     $382       4 or more doors
9      Residential demolition permit                                                 $335        
10     Pool and/or spa remodel                                                       $582        
11     Pool demolition permit                                                        $404        
12     Detached storage shed - with no trades (not to exceed 250 square feet)        $375        
13     Standard residential re-roof permit                                           $382        
14     Furnace and a/c replacement permit                                            $227        
15     Water heater, furnace, a/c replacement                                        $176        
16     New pool or new pool/spa                                                      $1,065      
17     In-lieu fee per square foot based on the 15% inclusionary ordinance           $30        For-sale homes
       requirement
Administrative Fees - Strong Motion Instrumentation Program
1      Residential                                                                   0.01% of valuation ($0.50 minimum)
2      Commercial                                                                    0.021% of valuation ($0.50 minimum)
3      California Building Standards fee                                             $1 per $25,000 of total valuation
4      Documentation fee                                                             $20         
Electrical Permit Fees
                                                                                     20% of
1      Electrical sub-permit                                                         base       For each, 20% of additional time to inspect that discipline
                                                                                     building
                                                                                     permit fee
      System Fee Schedule
2      Carnivals and circuses - electrical generator and electrically driven rides   $45        For each
3      Carnivals and circuses - mechanically driven rides and walk through           $20        For each
       attractions or displays having electric lighting
4      Carnivals and circuses - system of area and booth lighting                    $20        For each
5      Temporary power service - temporary service pole or pedestal                  $140       For each, including all pole or pedestal mounted receptacle outlets and
                                                                                                appurtenances
       Temporary power service - temporary distribution system and temporary
6      lighting and receptacle outlets for construction sites, decorative lights,    $70        For each
       Christmas tree sales lots, fireworks stands, and the like
Mechanical Permit Fees
                                                                                     17% of
1      Mechanical sub-permit                                                         base       For each, 17% of additional time to inspect the discipline
                                                                                     building
                                                                                     permit fee
Plumbing Permit Fees
                                                                                     18% of
1      Plumbing sub-permit                                                           base       For each, 18% of additional time to inspect that discipline
                                                                                     building
                                                                                     permit fee
Elevator Permit Fees - New Installations
1      Passenger or freight elevator, escalator, moving walk                         Valuation  Up to and including $40,000 of valuation. Over $40,000 of valuation - $89 plus
                                                                                     based      $1.65 for each $1,000 or faction thereof over $40,000
2      Dumbwaiter or private residence elevator                                      Valuation  Up to and including $10,000 of valuation. Over $10,000 of valuation - $25 plus
                                                                                     based      $1.65 for each $1,000 or fraction thereof over $10,000
Grading Plan Review Fees
1      50 cubic yards or less                                                        $60         
2      51 to 100 cubic yards                                                         $85         
3      101 to 1,000 cubic yards                                                      $120        
4      1,001 to 10,000 cubic yards                                                   $200        
5      10,001 to 100,000 cubic yards                                                 $300       Plus $24.50 for each additional 10,000 cubic yards or fraction thereof
6      100,001 to 200,000 cubic yards                                                $400       Plus $24.50 for each additional 10,000 cubic yards or fraction thereof
7      200,001 cubic yards or more                                                   $570       Plus $24.50 for each additional 10,000 cubic yards or fraction thereof
8      Additional plan review required by changes, additions, or revisions to plans  Actual      
       or to plans for which an initial review has been completed                    cost
Grading Permit Fees
1      50 cubic yards or less                                                        $60         
2      51 to 100 cubic yards                                                         $85         
3      101 to 1,000 cubic yards                                                      $110       Plus $17.50 for each additional 100 cubic yards or fraction thereof
4      1,001 to 10,000 cubic yards                                                   $268       Plus $17.50 for each additional 100 cubic yards or fraction thereof
5      10,001 to 100,000 cubic yards                                                 $437       Plus $17.50 for each additional 100 cubic yards or fraction thereof
6      100,001 cubic yards or more                                                   $1,325     Plus $17.50 for each additional 100 cubic yards or fraction thereof
7      Inspections outside of normal business hours                                  $182       Per hour, minimum 4 hours
8      Reinspection fees assessed under provisions of § 305.8                       $150       Per inspection
9      Inspections for which no fee is specifically indicated                        $150       Per hour, minimum 1 hour
Solar Permit Fees
1      Photovoltaic residential                                                      $290        
                                                                                     1/3 of 1%
2      Photovoltaic non-residential                                                  of total    
                                                                                     valuation
3      Building permit fee - for panel upgrades 200 AMP or less                      $175        
4      Building permit fee - for panel upgrades over 200 AMP                         $230        
5      Building plan check fee                                                       $175       Minimum
6      Planning fee                                                                  $86         
7      Planning fee - for panel upgrades 200 AMP or less                             $31         
8      Planning fee - for panel upgrades over 200 AMP                                $52         
9      SMIP                                                                          $2          
10     State green fee                                                               $1          
RMA: Code Enforcement****
1      Reinspection fee (SBC § 1.03.010(B))                                         $250        
2      Legal surcharge fee (SBC § 1.03.010(C))                                      Actual     Per violation
                                                                                     cost
3      Investigation fee                                                             Actual      
                                                                                     cost
3      Violation clearance fee to release recorded documents such as liens, NOV’s, Actual     1 hour minimum
       clearance reports                                                             cost
3      Zoning violation req. use - fruit stand                                       $100        
4      Zoning violation req. use - hobby kennel                                      $50         
5      Zoning violation req. use - commercial kennel                                 $500        
6      Zoning violation req. use - signs (seasonal)                                  $35         
7      Zoning violation req. use - sign (non-billboard)                              $250        
8      Zoning violation req. use - senior second                                     $500        
9      Zoning violation req. use - guest house                                       $500        
10     Zoning violation req. use - grading violation                                 $500        
11     Zoning violation req. use - scenic corridor review                            $500        
12     Zoning violation req. use - temporary mobile home                             $100        
13     Zoning violation req. use - trees                                             $100        
14     Zoning violation req. use - third SFD                                         $500        
15     Zoning violation req. use - business in the home                              $500        
16     Zoning violation req. use - labor camp                                        $3,000      
17     Zoning violation req. use - non-conforming review                             $250        
18     Zoning violation req. use - commercial review                                 $3,000      
19     Zoning violation req. use - industrial review                                 $3,000      
20     PW/road violation - encroachment permit                                       $308        
21     Parade and public gathering violation - level 1 parades                       $50         
22     Parade and public gathering violation - level 2 parades                       $150        
23     Parade and public gathering violation - level 3 parades or public gatherings  $1,000      
24     Parade and public gathering violation - level 4 parades or public gatherings  $3,000      
25     Non-safety code violations - first occurrence, administrative citation fine   $100        
26     Non-safety code violations - second occurrence within 1 year, administrative  $200        
       citation fine
27     Non-safety code violations - third and subsequent occurrences within 1 year   $500        
       of first violation - administrative citation fine
28     Local building and safety code violations - first occurrence - administrative $100        
       citation fine
29     Local building and safety code violations - second occurrence of violation    $500        
       within 1 year of first - administrative citation fine
30     Local building and safety code violations - third and subsequent occurrences  $1,000      
       of same violation within 1 year - administrative citation fine
31     Non-safety code violation - first violation (per day) - public nuisance civil $100        
       penalty
32     Non-safety code violation - second violation (per day) - public nuisance      $200        
       civil penalty
33     Non-safety code violation - each additional violation within 1 year of first  $500        
       violation (per day) - public nuisance civil penalty
34     Local building and safety code violation - first violation (per day) - public $100        
       nuisance civil penalty                                                                    
35     Local building and safety code violation - second violation (per day) -       $500        
       public nuisance civil penalty
36     Local building and safety code violation - each additional violation within 1 $1,000      
       year of first violation (per day) - public nuisance civil penalty
37     Personal cultivation of cannabis                                              $1,000      
RMA: Planning
1      Appeal - Commission - land use                                                $1,067     Plus $100 per hour
2      Appeal - Commission - CEQA                                                    $1,067     Plus $100 per hour
3      Appeal - staff - land use                                                     $1,067     Plus $100 per hour
4      Appeal - staff - CEQA                                                         $1,067     Plus $100 per hour
5      Certificate of compliance                                                     $2,400     Plus $100 per hour
                                                                                     25% of
6      Extension - tentative map                                                     original   Potential CEQA analysis also
                                                                                     map fees
                                                                                     50% of
7      Extension - use permit                                                        original   Potential CEQA analysis also
                                                                                     use permit
                                                                                     deposit
8      Facsimile                                                                     Rate per    
                                                                                     page
                                                                                     $10,000
9      General plan amendment - map change                                           deposit +  Plus $27 per acre + $100 per hour
                                                                                     CEQA
                                                                                     $10,000
10     General plan amendment - text change                                          deposit +  Plus $25 per acre + $100 per hour
                                                                                     CEQA
11     Hourly rate                                                                   $134        
12     Lot line adjustment                                                           $3,000      
13     Map/blueprint photocopy                                                       Actual      
                                                                                     cost
                                                                                     $10,000
14     Major subdivision - tentative map, no sewer and/or water                      deposit +  $169 per lot
                                                                                     CEQA
                                                                                     $10,000
15     Major subdivision - tentative map with sewer and/or water                     deposit +  $268 per lot
                                                                                     CEQA
16     Non-conforming building site review                                           No charge   
                                                                                     20% of
                                                                                     building
17     Oil well inspection                                                           permit fee  
                                                                                     for site
                                                                                     visit
18     Parcel merger                                                                 $3,000      
19     Physical address - new without permit                                         $66         
20     Planning inspection - 1 hour minimum                                          $134        
21     Photocopy - text document                                                     $0.25      Per page
22     Preliminary map                                                               $5,000 +   Deposit
                                                                                     CEQA
                                                                                     $10,000
23     Reclamation plan                                                              deposit +  Plus $15 per acre
                                                                                     CEQA
24     Requested letter - planning general information                               $134        
25     Reversion to acreage                                                          $3,000      
26     Road abandonment                                                              $1,610      
27     Scenic corridor review                                                        $5,000     Plus $100 per hour
                                                                                     deposit
28     Special plan review (landscaping, grading, fencing, and the like)             $805       Plus $100 per hour
                                                                                     $10,000
29     Specific plan of land use                                                     deposit +  Plus $27 per acre
                                                                                     CEQA
30     Surface mine inspection                                                       $400        
31     Surface mine reinspection                                                     $200        
                                                                                     $5,000
32     Use permit - major (conditional, general, commercial, and industrial)         deposit +   
                                                                                     CEQA
                                                                                     $5,000
33     Use permit - major (oil well, oil/gas storage, labor camps)                   deposit +   
                                                                                     CEQA
                                                                                     $10,000
34     Use permit - major surface mining                                             deposit +  Plus $13 per acre
                                                                                     CEQA
                                                                                     $2,500
35     Use permit - minor (rural home enterprise, administrative...)                 deposit +   
                                                                                     CEQA
36     Use permit - minor home occupation                                            $1,200      
37     Use permit - minor (senior second, guest house, third unit)                   $1,077      
38     Use permit - minor sign permit (non-billboard)                                $402        
39     Use permit - signs (temporary, seasonal)                                      $45         
40     Use permit - minor (temporary mobile home, fruit stand)                       $700        
41     Use permit renewal - planning                                                 $2,500     Potential CEQA analysis
                                                                                     deposit
                                                                                     $5,000
42     Variance                                                                      deposit +   
                                                                                     CEQA
43     Zone change filed with project                                                $10,000    Plus $29 per acre + $100 per hour
                                                                                     deposit
                                                                                     $10,000
44     Zone change filed separately                                                  deposit +  Plus $30 per acre + $100 per hour
                                                                                     CEQA
45     Pre-application review with the County Design Review Committee                $1,500     Deposit
46     Research fee (for items taking longer than 1 hour)                            $250       Planner to advise client after two hours of effort before continuing
                                                                                     deposit
                                                                                     $10,000
47     Extraordinary development review fee                                          deposit +   
                                                                                     CEQA
48     Development review committee incentive                                        $1,500      
Environmental Review
1      Statutory exemption                                                           $874        
2      Categorical exemptions                                                        $874        
3      Request for proposal                                                          $1,611      
4      Consultant - contract preparation                                             $2,500      
                                                                                     $10,000
5      Initial study - negative description                                          deposit if  
                                                                                     done in-
                                                                                     house
6      Notice of preparation                                                         $805        
7      RMA administrative fee for EIRs and initial studies (added to consultant      $0.32       
       costs, applicant deposit requirements)
RMA: Public Works
1      Historical park                                                               $50        Per section (8 total)
2      Entire historical park                                                        $300       Entire park, $300 deposit
3      Veterans Memorial Park                                                        $150       Per section, $75 deposit and $75 rental
4      Bertha Briggs Building                                                        $425       Building, $200 deposit, $225 rental
SHERIFF’S OFFICE
1      Vehicle release                                                               $40         
2      Repossession fee                                                              $15         
3      Case report copies                                                            $1         Per page
4      Letter of clearance                                                           $20         
5      Citation sign off                                                             $20         
6      Earnings withholding orders                                                   $35         
7      Bank levies                                                                   $40         
8      Keepers - $100 sheriff’s fee plus keeper’s fees                           $240       8 hours
       Till taps - $100 (no keeper needed)
9      Keepers - $100 sheriff’s fee plus keeper’s fees                           $400       8-12 hours
       Till taps - $100 (no keeper needed)
10     Civil bench warrants                                                          $50         
                                                                                     $140
11     Summons and complaints                                                        $40         
12     Small claims (plaintiff’s claims)                                           $40         
13     Criminal summons and order after hearing                                      -           
14     Order for appearance or examination                                           $40         
15     Affidavit and order                                                           $40         
16     Order after hearing (not criminal)                                            $40         
17     Order to show cause/request for orders                                        $40         
18     Civil subpoena for Sheriff’s Deputy to appear as a witness on a civil matter$40         
19     Summons and petition (family law) - divorce, child support, child custody,    $40         
       and the like
20     Temporary restraining order (civil harassment, work place TRO’s)            $40         
21     Criminal subpoenas                                                            No fee      
22     Evictions                                                                     $145        
23     Summons and complaint - unlawful detainer                                     $40         
24     Any 3, 30, 60, or 90 day notice to quit, or 3 day notice to pay rent or quit  $40        Per defendant
25     Child support                                                                 $40         
26     Real property levy, writ of sale; writ of attachments; personal property      Fee varies. Contact the Sheriff’s Office for more information
       levy, writ of possession claim and deliveries
27     Work alternative program fee                                                  $60         
28     Work alternative daily sign in/out                                            $10         
29     Work alternative reschedule fee                                               $30         
30     DA book and release/full booking                                              $40         
31     Federal firearm dealer license (FFL) initial letter                           $125        
32     Federal firearm dealer license (FFL) renewal letter                           $30         
33     Explosive permit - initial permit                                             $200        
34     Explosive permit - renewal                                                    $30         
35     Case report staff processing time                                             $10 plus    
                                                                                     copy fee
36     Concealed weapon permit                                                       $200       Initial cost, $25 renewals/modifications
TAX COLLECTOR
1      Delinquent cost                                                               $26        Per parcel
2      Delinquent reminder notice                                                    $10        Per parcel
3      Redemption fee                                                                $15        Per parcel
Copies
4      Screen print                                                                  $1.50      Per parcel/assessment
5      Tax sale information                                                          $4.20      Per parcel/assessment
6      Abstract of delinquent secured property taxes                                 $4         Per parcel/assessment
7      Photocopy for any document requested                                          $3         Per document
Bank Charges
8      NSF check/stop payment                                                        $50        Per check
9      Electronic funds transfer                                                     $33        Per transfer
10     Domestic wire in (bank fee only)                                              $10        Per wire transfer
11     Domestic wire out (bank fee only)                                             $10        Per wire transfer
12     Notice of intent to seize property (bank accounts)                            $10        Per parcel/assessment
Secured
13     Installment plan of redemption                                                $112       Per parcel/assessment
14     Escrow demand - tax payment amount due/apn not to exceed $38.50/hour          $43         
15     Mobile home - initial clearance                                               No charge  Per parcel/assessment
16     Mobile home - reissue with no recalculation                                   $10        Per parcel/assessment
17     Mobile home - reissue with recalculation                                      $10        Per parcel/assessment
18     Minor/major subdivision - initial tax clearance                               $30        Per request
19     Minor/major subdivision - reissue, no recalculation                           $10        Per request
20     Minor/major subdivision - recalculation reissue                               $30        Per subdivision
21     Lot line adjustment - initial tax clearance                                   $30        Per request
22     Lot line adjustment - reissue, no recalculation                               $10        Per request
23     Lot line adjustment - recalculation reissue                                   $30        Per lot line
24     Bankruptcy administrative fee                                                 Actual     Per case
25     Secured tax roll                                                              $300       Per current roll
26     Delinquent secured tax roll                                                   $25        Per current roll
27     Supplemental tax roll                                                         $300       Per current roll
28     Delinquent supplemental roll                                                  $25        Per current roll
Tax Sale
29     Obtaining name/last known mailing address and mailing notices                 Actual     Per parcel/assessment
30     Title search for notice to parties of interest                                Actual     Per parcel/assessment
31     Primary residence parcel/personal contact cost (not to exceed $100)           Actual     Per parcel/assessment
32     Cost to conduct sale (effective 90 days in advance of tax sale date)          $150       Per parcel/assessment
33     Cost of advertising                                                           Actual     Per parcel/assessment
34     Recording - recession of notice of power to sell - redemption only paid in    $12        Per parcel/assessment
       good funds (cash, cashier’s check, money order)
35     Recording - recession of notice of power to sell - redemption only            $12        Per parcel/assessment
36     Recording - tax deed to purchaser ($7 first page and $3 each additional page) $15        Per parcel/assessment
                                                                                     Actual
                                                                                     charge
37     Recording - tax deed to purchaser                                             plus tax   Per parcel/assessment
                                                                                     collector
                                                                                     fees
38     Recording - tax deed to purchaser - per recorder fee schedule                 Actual     Per parcel/assessment
39     State of California fee for the sale of each assessment                       $1.50      Per parcel/assessment
40     Rescission of notice of power to sell                                         $13        Per parcel/assessment
41     Online auction house fee                                                      Actual     Per parcel/assessment
                                                                                     $100 plus
                                                                                     $25 each
                                                                                     additional
42     Application for separate valuation                                            assessment Per request
                                                                                     not to
                                                                                     exceed
                                                                                     $150
Excess Proceeds From Tax Sale
43     Notice to parties of interest                                                 Actual     Per parcel/assessment
44     Cost of advertising                                                           Actual     Per parcel/assessment
Unsecured
45     Escrow demand - tax payment amount due (for example, bulk transfer notice)    $52        Per request
46     Delinquent unsecured collections                                              $11        Per parcel/assessment
47     Certificate of lien - San Benito County                                       $27        Per parcel/assessment
48     Certificate of lien - out of county                                           $33        Per parcel/assessment
49     Certificate of lien - renewal of lien                                         Cost/orig  Per parcel/assessment
                                                                                     inal
50     Department of Motor Vehicles - vessel program                                 $16        Per parcel/assessment
51     Installment plan of redemption                                                $14        Per parcel/assessment
52     Unsecured tax roll                                                            $300       Per current roll
53     Delinquent unsecured roll                                                     $25        Per current roll
Treasurer Fees
54     Returned item charge - NSF                                                    $25        Per parcel/assessment
55     Inquiry                                                                       $8         Per check
56     Stop payment request                                                          $18        Per check
57     Wire transfer of funds                                                        $27        Per transfer
58     Conversion of bond into registered bond                                       $1/$1,00 0 Per bond
                                                                                     PAR
59     Copy of investment policy/investment report                                   $12        Per report
60     Return ACH bank charge                                                        $17        Per ACH transfer
61     Paying agent fee                                                              $330       Per bond
Miscellaneous
                                                                                     Actual
62     Postage - paid                                                                current    Per parcel/assessment
                                                                                     cost
                                                                                     Actual
63     Certified mail/#10 envelope with return receipt requested                     current    Per parcel/assessment
                                                                                     cost
                                                                                     Actual
64     Brown envelope - 9 x 12 or 10 x 13 (excluding postage)                        current    Per parcel/assessment
                                                                                     cost
                                                                                     Actual
65     Delinquent file - folder/insert/cost sheet                                    current    Per parcel/assessment
                                                                                     cost
66     Facsimile transmissions                                                       $5         Per parcel/assessment
67     Demand for payment document email transmission                                $5         Per parcel/assessment
68     Demand for payment snail mail document transmission                           $5         Per parcel/assessment
Public Administrator
                                                                                     Annual
                                                                                     plus 0.25%
69     PA bond fee                                                                   of >       Per year/case
                                                                                     $10,000
                                                                                     estate
70     PA minimum fee                                                                $1,000     Per case
                                                                                     4% of
                                                                                     first
                                                                                     $100,000 ,
                                                                                     3% on next
                                                                                     $100,000 ,
                                                                                     2% on next
                                                                                     $800,000 ,
                                                                                     1% on next
71     PA compensation                                                               $9         Per case
                                                                                     million,
                                                                                     0.5% on
                                                                                     next $15
                                                                                     million,
                                                                                     above $25
                                                                                     million
                                                                                     determined
                                                                                     by court
72     Extraordinary fees                                                            Court      Per case
                                                                                     approved
73     Attorney fee                                                                  $1,000     Per case
                                                                                     4% of
                                                                                     first
                                                                                     $100,000 ,
                                                                                     3% on next
                                                                                     $100,000 ,
                                                                                     2% on next
                                                                                     $800,000 ,
                                                                                     1% on next
74     Attorney compensation                                                         $9         Per case
                                                                                     million,
                                                                                     0.5% on
                                                                                     next $15
                                                                                     million,
                                                                                     above $25
                                                                                     million
                                                                                     determined
                                                                                     by court
75     Coupon payment fee for bonds                                                  $12        Per bond
NOTES.
* All probation services subject to financial ability to pay determined by the Probation Officer.
** Or the total hourly cost to the jurisdiction, whichever is greatest. This cost shall include supervision, overhead, equipment, hourly wages, and fringe benefits of the
employees involved.
*** Only applies to eligible permit as determined by the Chief Building Official.
**** Administrative civil penalties, §
1.06.070(A), provides - “In addition to any other remedy prescribed in this chapter, any nuisance as described in this chapter may be subject to an administrative penalty in
the following amounts: up to $100 per day, or part thereof, for the first violation.”
 
(Ord. 972, Exhibit A, 2018; Ord. 1052, § 4, 2023)
CHAPTER 5.03: COUNTY TAXES
Section
Article I. Real Property Transfer Tax
   
5.03.001   Short title; statutory authority
   
5.03.002   Imposition of tax; amount
   
5.03.003   Persons liable for payment of tax
   
5.03.004   Exemptions
   
5.03.005   Claims of exemption
   
5.03.006   Revenue and taxation code requirements
   
5.03.007   Assessor’s parcel number requirements
   
5.03.008   [RESERVED]
   
5.03.009   Credit against tax
   
5.03.010   Tax as a debt
   
5.03.011   Administration; allocation of collected funds
   
5.03.012   Prerequisites to recordation
   
5.03.013   Refunds claims
   
5.03.014   Manner of giving notice
   
5.03.015   Records of persons liable
   
5.03.016   Unlawful activities designated; misdemeanor
   
5.03.017   Operative date
Article II. Sales and Use Taxes
   
5.03.030   Purpose of article
   
5.03.031   Operative date; contract with state’s Board of Equalization
   
5.03.032   Sales tax generally
   
5.03.033   Use tax generally
   
5.03.034   Credit for taxes paid to cities in the county; levies under § 7202
(h)
   
5.03.035   Same; levies under § 7202(i)
   
5.03.036   Application of provisions
   
5.03.037   Collection not to be enjoined
   
5.03.038   Adoption of amendments to state law
   
5.03.039   Article inoperative on failure of county to comply with state law
Article III. Transient Occupancy Tax
   
5.03.050   Short title
   
5.03.051   Definitions
   
5.03.052   Tax imposed
   
5.03.053   Exemptions from provisions
   
5.03.054   Operator’s duties
   
5.03.055   Registration
   
5.03.056   Reports and remittances
   
5.03.057   Penalties and interest
   
5.03.058   Failure to collect and report tax; determination of tax by Tax
Administrator
   
5.03.059   Appeals
   
5.03.060   Cessation of business
   
5.03.061   Records
   
5.03.062   Refunds
   
5.03.063   Suspension and revocation of permits
   
5.03.064   Closure of hotels without permits
   
5.03.065   Recording certificates; liens
   
5.03.066   Priority of liens
   
5.03.067   Warrants for the collection of tax
   
5.03.068   Seizures and sales
   
5.03.069   Successors’ liability; withholding by purchasers
   
5.03.070   Liability of purchasers; release
   
5.03.071   Notices to withhold
   
5.03.072   Extensions of time
   
5.03.073   Divulging of information forbidden
   
5.03.074   Violations; penalties
Article IV. Business License Tax
Subarticle I. General Provisions
   
5.03.090   Short title
   
5.03.091   Tax imposed
   
5.03.092   Purpose of article
   
5.03.093   Effect on other ordinances
   
5.03.094   Definitions
   
5.03.095   Rules and regulations
   
5.03.096   Employment of necessary personnel
   
5.03.097   Resource Management Agency
   
5.03.098   Required notices; certificate by Board as evidence
   
5.03.099   Disclosure of business affairs, operations or other information
submitted in required report or return; authorization of examination of records
   
5.03.100   Successors to taxpayer; tax information
   
5.03.101   Effect on public access to relevant information
Subarticle II. Business License Tax
   
5.03.120   License required
   
5.03.121   Concessioner
   
5.03.122   Classification and tax rate
   
5.03.123   Tax due and annual adjustment of tax rates
   
5.03.124   Data; previous years
   
5.03.125   Review of classification
   
5.03.126   Branch establishments
   
5.03.127   Exemptions
   
5.03.128   License non-transferable
   
5.03.129   License tax; how payable
   
5.03.130   License application; contents
   
5.03.131   County computation of amount to be paid; interest on tax determined;
penalty; notice of determination
   
5.03.132   License tax; when payable
   
5.03.133   Terms of license
   
5.03.134   Penalties for delinquencies
   
5.03.135   License tax; debt to county
   
5.03.136   Conviction; effect on debt
   
5.03.137   Exhibition of license
   
5.03.138   Refunds
   
5.03.139   Waiver of claim for refund
   
5.03.140   Appeal
Subarticle III. Violations; Enforcement
   
5.03.155   Violations
   
5.03.156   Enforcement
Article V. Cannabis Business Activities Tax
   
5.03.170   Title
   
5.03.171   Authority and purpose
   
5.03.172   Intent
   
5.03.173   General tax
   
5.03.174   Definitions
   
5.03.175   Tax imposed
   
5.03.176   Exemptions
   
5.03.177   Tax, penalties, interest, and fees as a debt
   
5.03.178   Administration
   
5.03.179   Registration; change of ownership
   
5.03.180   Reporting and remittance of tax
   
5.03.181   Deficiency
   
5.03.182   Delinquency; notice not required by county
   
5.03.183   Penalties, fees, and interest
   
5.03.184   Waiver of penalties
   
5.03.185   Refunds; credits
   
5.03.186   Notice of assessment
   
5.03.187   Assessment hearing
   
5.03.188   Appeal from assessment hearing
   
5.03.189   Enforcement
   
5.03.190   Apportionment
   
5.03.191   Constitutionality and legality
   
5.03.192   Recordkeeping; audit
   
5.03.193   Other licenses, permits, taxes, fees, or charges
   
5.03.194   Payment of tax does not authorize unlawful activities
   
5.03.195   Manner of giving notice
   
5.03.196   Unlawful activities designated; misdemeanor
   
5.03.197   Violation; taxes not waived
   
5.03.198   Severability
   
5.03.199   Remedies cumulative
   
5.03.200   Amendment or repeal
ARTICLE I. REAL PROPERTY TRANSFER TAX
§ 5.03.001 SHORT TITLE; STATUTORY AUTHORITY.
   This article shall be known as the “Documentary Transfer Tax Ordinance of
the County of San Benito.” It is adopted pursuant to Part 6.7 (commencing with
§ 11901) of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code and Part 0.5
(commencing with § 60) of Division 1 of the Revenue and Taxation Code with
special reference to §§ 64(c) and (d).
(Ord. 969, § 3, 2018)
§ 5.03.002 IMPOSITION OF TAX; AMOUNT.
   (A)   There is hereby imposed on each deed, instrument or writing by which
any lands, tenements, or other realty sold within the County of San Benito
shall be granted, assigned, transferred, or otherwise conveyed to, or vested
in, the purchaser(s) or any other person(s) by their direction, when the
consideration or value of the interest or property conveyed (exclusive of the
value of any lien or encumbrances remaining thereon at the time of sale)
exceeds $100, a tax at the rate of $0.55 for each $500 or fractional part
thereof.
   (B)   For purposes of this article, “realty sold” includes a change of
ownership as set forth in Part 0.5 (commencing with § 60) of Division 1 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code with special reference to §§ 64, (c) and (d).
   (C)   The transfer of any mobile home installed on a foundation system,
pursuant to § 18551 of the Health and Safety Code, and subject to property
taxation shall be subject to this article.
(Ord. 969, § 5, 2018)
§ 5.03.003 PERSONS LIABLE FOR PAYMENT OF TAX.
   The tax imposed by §
5.03.002 shall be paid by any person who makes, signs, or issues any document
or instrument subject to the tax, or for whose use or benefit the same is made,
signed or issued.
(Ord. 969, § 7, 2018)
§ 5.03.004 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Security instruments. The tax imposed pursuant to this article shall
not apply to any instrument in writing given to secure a debt.
   (B)   Governmental entities. Any deed, instrument or writing to which the
United States or any agency or instrumentality thereof, any state or territory,
or political subdivision thereof, or the District of Columbia is a party
acquiring titles shall be exempt from any tax imposed pursuant to this article
, however the tax may be collected from any other party liable therefor.
   (C)   Plans of reorganization and adjustment.
      (1)   The tax imposed pursuant to this article shall not apply to the
making, delivering or filing of conveyances to make effective any plan of
reorganization or adjustment that is any of the following:
         (a)   Confirmed under the Federal Bankruptcy Act, as amended;
         (b)   Approved in an equity receivership proceeding in a court
involving a railroad corporation, as defined in Section 101 of Title 11 of the
United States Code, as amended;
         (c)   Approved in an equity receivership proceeding in a court
involving a corporation, as defined in Section 101 of Title 11 of the United
States Code, as amended; or
         (d)   Whereby a mere change in identity, form or place of organization
is effected.
      (2)   Subdivision (A) of this section shall only apply if the making,
delivery or filing of instruments of transfer or conveyances occurs within five
years from the date of such confirmation, approval, or change.
   (D)   Orders of securities and exchange commission. The tax imposed pursuant
to this article shall not apply to the making or delivery of conveyances to
make effective any order of the Securities and Exchange Commission, as defined
in subdivision (a) of § 1083 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954, but only if:
      (1)   The order of the Securities and Exchange Commission in obedience to
which such conveyance is made recites that such conveyance is necessary or
appropriate to effectuate the provisions of Section 79K of Title 15 of the
United States Code, relating to the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935;
      (2)   Such order specifies the property which is ordered to be conveyed;
and
      (3)   Such conveyance is made in obedience to such order.
   (E)   Transfer of interest in partnership.
      (1)   In the case of any realty held by a partnership (or other entity
treated as a partnership for federal income tax purposes), no tax shall be
imposed pursuant to this article by reason of any transfer of an interest in
the partnership or other entity or otherwise, but only if:
         (a)   Such partnership (or other entity treated as a partnership for
federal income tax purposes) is considered a continuing partnership within the
meaning of § 708 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986; and
         (b)   Such continuing partnership (or other entity treated as a
partnership for federal income tax purposes) continues to hold the realty
concerned.
      (2)   If there is a termination of any partnership (or other entity
treated as a partnership for federal income tax purposes) within the meaning of
§ 708 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, for purposes of this article, such
partnership (or other entity treated as a partnership for federal income tax
purposes) shall be treated as having executed an instrument whereby there was
conveyed, for fair market value (exclusive of the value of any lien or
encumbrance remaining thereon), all realty held by such partnership (or other
entity treated as a partnership for federal income tax purposes) at the time of
such termination.
      (3)   Not more than one tax shall be imposed pursuant to this article by
reason of a termination described in subdivision (E)(2) of this section, and
any transfer pursuant thereto, with respect to the realty held by such
partnership (or other entity treated as a partnership for federal income tax
purposes) at the time of such termination.
      (4)   No tax shall be imposed pursuant to this article by reason of any
transfer between an individual or individuals and a legal entity or between
legal entities that results solely in a change in the method of holding title
to the realty and in which proportional ownership interests in the realty,
whether represented by stock, membership interest, partnership interest, co-
tenancy interest, or otherwise, directly or indirectly, remain the same
immediately after the transfer.
   (F)   Instruments in lieu of foreclosure.
      (1)   The tax imposed pursuant to this article shall not apply to any
deed, instrument or writing to a beneficiary or mortgagee, which is taken from
the mortgagor or trustee as a result of, or in lieu of, foreclosure; provided,
that such tax shall apply to the extent that the consideration exceeds the
unpaid debt, including the accrued interest and cost of foreclosure.
      (2)   Consideration, unpaid debt amount, and identification of grantee as
beneficiary or mortgagee shall be noted on the deed, instrument or writing, or
stated in an affidavit or declaration under penalty of perjury for tax
purposes.
   (G)   Allocation of assets between spouses.
      (1)   The tax imposed pursuant to this article shall not apply to any
deed, instrument or writing which transfers, divides or allocates community,
quasi-community or quasi-marital property assets between spouses for purposes
of effecting a division of the same, which is required by a judgment decreeing
a dissolution of the marriage or legal separation, by a judgment of nullity, or
by any other judgment or order rendered pursuant to the Family Code, or by a
written agreement between the spouses, executed in contemplation of such
judgment or order, whether or not it is incorporated as part of the judgment or
order.
      (2)   The deed, instrument or writing shall include a written recital,
signed by either spouse, stating that it is entitled to the exemption.
   (H)   Certain deeds with agreement for purchaser to reconvey. The tax
imposed pursuant to this article shall not apply with respect to any deed,
instrument, or other writing by which realty is conveyed by the State of
California, any political subdivision thereof, or agency or instrumentality of
either thereof, pursuant to an agreement whereby the purchaser agrees to
immediately reconvey the realty to the exempt agency.
   (I)   Certain conveyances involving nonprofit corporation. The tax imposed
pursuant to this article shall not apply with respect to any deed, instrument,
or other writing by which the State of California, any political subdivision
thereof, or agency or instrumentality of either thereof, conveys to a nonprofit
corporation realty the acquisition, construction, or improvement of which was
financed or refinanced by obligations issued by the nonprofit corporation on
behalf of a government unit, within the meaning of § 1.103-1(b) of Title 26 of
the Code of Federal Regulations.
   (J)   Certain conveyances involving inter vivos gift or death. Any tax
imposed pursuant to this part shall not apply to any deed, instrument, or other
writing which purports to grant, assign, transfer, convey, divide, allocate, or
vest lands, tenements, or realty, or any interest therein, if by reason of such
inter vivos gift or by reason of the death of any person, such lands,
tenements, realty, or interests therein are transferred outright to, or in
trust for the benefit of, any person or entity.
(Ord. 969, § 9, 2018)
§ 5.03.005 CLAIMS OF EXEMPTION.
   Except as otherwise provided by law, every person who records a deed,
instrument or writing which he or she claims is exempt from the tax imposed
pursuant to this article shall declare in writing, under penalty of perjury, in
the manner and form prescribed by the recorder, the reason why it is exempt
under law. For the County of San Benito this is defined as being placed on the
first page of the deed, the Revenue and Taxation Code or in the event of a
government document the Government Code shall be stated and defined as to the
reason of exemption.
(Ord. 969, § 11, 2018)
§ 5.03.006 REVENUE AND TAXATION CODE REQUIREMENTS.
   Every deed, instrument or writing by which lands, tenements or other realty
in the County is sold, granted, assigned, transferred or otherwise conveyed
shall have noted upon it the declared amount of required transfer tax with the
exemption of those that are declaring “No Transfer Tax” due. The County
Recorder shall not record any such deed, instrument or writing unless a correct
and valid Revenue and Taxation Code for said exemption is stated on the first
page, in or near the statement of declaration.
(Ord. 969, § 13, 2018)
§ 5.03.007 ASSESSOR’S PARCEL NUMBER REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Every deed, instrument or writing by which lands, tenements or other
realty in the County is sold, granted, assigned, transferred or otherwise
conveyed shall have noted upon it the assessor parcel number. The number
required by this section shall be used solely for administrative and procedural
purposes. It shall not constitute proof of title. In the event of conflicts,
the stated legal description shall govern. The validity of any such deed,
instrument or writing shall not be affected by the fact that the assessor
parcel number noted on it is erroneous or is omitted, and no liability shall
attach to any person for such an error or omission.
   (B)   The County Recorder shall not record any such deed, instrument or
writing unless the assessor parcel number is noted on it. The person who
requests that such a document be recorded shall be charged with providing the
County Recorder with the correct assessor parcel number.
(Ord. 969, § 15, 2018)
§ 5.03.008 [RESERVED.]
§ 5.03.009 CREDIT AGAINST TAX.
   If the legislative body of any city located in the county imposes a tax
pursuant to Revenue and Taxation Code § 11911(b), equal to one-half the amount
specified in §
5.03.002, a credit shall be granted against the taxes due under this article in
the amount of the city’s tax.
(Ord. 969, § 19, 2018)
§ 5.03.010 TAX AS A DEBT.
   The amount of any tax imposed by this article shall be deemed a debt owed to
the county. Any person owing the tax shall be liable in an action brought in
the name of the county for the recovery of such debt. The provisions of this
section shall not be deemed a limitation upon the right of the county to bring
any other action including criminal, civil and equitable actions, based upon
the failure to pay the tax imposed by this article or the failure to comply
with any of the provisions thereof.
(Ord. 969, § 21, 2018)
§ 5.03.011 ADMINISTRATION; ALLOCATION OF COLLECTED FUNDS.
   (A)   The County Recorder shall administer this article and shall also
administer any ordinance adopted by any city in the county pursuant to Part 6.7
(commencing with § 11901) of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code
imposing a tax for which a credit is allowed by this article.
   (B)   On or before the fifteenth day of the month the County Recorder shall
report to the County Auditor the amounts of taxes collected during the
preceding month pursuant to this ordinance and each such city ordinance. The
County Auditor shall allocate and distribute monthly said taxes as follows:
      (1)   All monies which relate to transfers of real property located in
the unincorporated territory of the County shall be allocated to the county.
      (2)   All monies which relate to transfers of real property located in a
city in the county which has imposed a tax pursuant to said Part 6.7
(commencing with § 11901) of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code shall
be allocated one-half to such city and one-half to the county.
      (3)   All monies which relate to transfers of real property located in a
city in the county which imposes a tax on transfers of real property not in
conformity with said Part 6.7 (commencing with § 11901) of Division 2 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code shall be allocated to the county.
      (4)   All monies which relate to transfers of real property in a city in
the county which does not impose a tax on transfers of real property shall be
allocated to the county.
(Ord. 969, § 23, 2018)
§ 5.03.012 PREREQUISITES TO RECORDATION.
   (A)   The County Recorder shall not record any deed, instrument or writing
subject to the tax imposed pursuant to this article unless the tax is paid at
the time of recording. A declaration of the amount of tax due, signed by the
party determining the tax or their agent, shall appear on the face of the
document in compliance with Subdivision (B) of this section. The County
Recorder may rely on said declaration if they have no reason to believe that
the full amount of the tax due has not been paid. The declaration shall include
a statement showing that the consideration or value on which the tax due was
computed based on either:
      (1)   The full value of the property at the time of sale; or
      (2)   The full value of the property, less the value of any lien(s) and/
or encumbrance(s) remaining on the interest or property conveyed at the time of
sale.
   (B)   Every document subject to tax hereunder which is submitted for
recordation shall show on the face of the document, the amount of taxes due
under this article and the incorporated or unincorporated location of the
lands, tenements, or other realty described in the document, and the recorder
may rely thereon. If said lands, tenements or other realty are located within a
city in the county, the name of the city shall be set forth. If said lands,
tenements or other realty are located in the unincorporated area of the county,
that fact shall be set forth.
(Ord. 969, § 25, 2018)
§ 5.03.013 REFUND CLAIMS.
   Claims for refunds of taxes imposed pursuant to this article shall be
governed by the provisions of Chapter 5 (commencing with § 5096) of Part 9 of
Division 1 of the Revenue and Taxation Code.
(Ord. 969, § 27, 2018)
§ 5.03.014 MANNER OF GIVING NOTICE.
   (A)   Any notice required to be given hereunder by the County Recorder or
the Board of Supervisors, to any person shall be sufficiently given or served
if it is personally served upon such person or if it is deposited, postage
prepaid, in a post office letter box addressed to the person at the address for
such person given on a document or a refund claim form, or if no such address
is available, to the person at the official address maintained by the County
Treasurer-Tax Collector for mailing of tax bills levied against the real
property that was transferred without full payment of tax or, if no such
address is available, to the person at the address of said real property.
Notice shall be deemed effective when it is deposited in the mail.
   (B)   The failure of the owner or any other person to receive any notice
required by this article to be given shall not affect the validity of any
proceedings taken pursuant thereto.
(Ord. 969, § 29, 2018)
§ 5.03.015 RECORDS OF PERSONS LIABLE.
   Whenever the County Recorder has reason to believe that the full amount of
tax due under this article has not been paid, they may, by notice served upon
any person liable therefor, require them to furnish a true copy of their
records relevant to the amount of the consideration or value of the interest or
property conveyed.
(Ord. 969, § 31, 2018)
§ 5.03.016 UNLAWFUL ACTIVITIES DESIGNATED; MISDEMEANOR.
   (A)   Any person or persons who makes, signs, issues or accepts or causes to
be made, signed, issued or accepted and who submits or causes to be submitted
for recordation any deed, instrument or writing subject to the tax imposed by
this ordinance and makes any material misrepresentation of fact for the purpose
of avoiding all or any part of the tax imposed by this article shall be guilty
of a misdemeanor.
   (B)   No person or persons shall be liable, either civilly or criminally,
for any unintentional error made in designating the location of the lands,
tenements or other realty described in a document subject to the tax imposed by
this article.
(Ord. 969, § 33, 2018)
§ 5.03.017 OPERATIVE DATE.
   This ordinance shall become operative 30 days after its adoption.
(Ord. 969, § 35, 2018)
ARTICLE II. SALES AND USE TAXES
§ 5.03.030 PURPOSE OF ARTICLE.
   The purposes of this article are as follows:
   (A)   To adopt sales and use tax regulations which comply with the
requirements and limitations contained in Cal. Revenue and Taxation Code Part
1.5, Division 2;
   (B)   To adopt sales and use tax regulations which incorporate provisions
identical to those of the Sales and Use Tax Law of the state insofar as those
provisions are not inconsistent with the requirements and limitations contained
in Cal. Revenue and Taxation Code Part 1.5, Division 2;
   (C)   To adopt sales and use tax regulations which impose a 1-1/4% tax and
provide a measure therefor that can be administered and collected by the
state’s Board of Equalization in a manner that adapts itself as fully as
practicable to, and requires the least possible deviation from, the existing
statutory and administrative procedures followed by the state’s Board of
Equalization in administering and collecting the state sales and use taxes; and
   (D)   To adopt sales and use tax regulations which can be administered in a
manner that will, to the degree possible consistent with the provisions of Cal.
Revenue and Taxation Code Part 1.5, Division 2, minimize the cost of collecting
county sales and use taxes and at the same time minimize the burden of record
keeping upon persons subject to taxation under the provisions of this article.
(1966 Code, § 15-1) (Ord. 193, § 2; Ord. 224, § 1; Ord. 321, § 1)
Statutory reference:
   Authority of county to adopt uniform sales and use taxes, see Cal. Revenue
and Taxation Code §§ 7201 et seq.
   Sales and use taxes, see Cal. Revenue and Taxation Code §§ 6001 et seq.
§ 5.03.031 OPERATIVE DATE; CONTRACT WITH STATE’S BOARD OF EQUALIZATION.
   This article shall become operative on April 1, 1956, and prior thereto this
county shall contract with the state’s Board of Equalization to perform all
functions incident to the administration and operation of these sales and use
tax regulations.
(1966 Code, § 15-2) (Ord. 193, § 3)
§ 5.03.032 SALES TAX GENERALLY.
   (A)   (1)   For the privilege of selling tangible personal property at
retail a tax is hereby imposed upon all retailers in the county at a rate of 1%
of the gross receipts of the retailer from the sale of all tangible personal
property sold at retail in the county on and after April 1, 1956, to and
including June 30, 1972, and at the rate of 1-1/4% thereafter.
      (2)   For the purposes of this article, all retail sales are consummated
at the place of business of the retailer unless the tangible personal property
sold is delivered by the retailer or his or her agent to an out-of-state
destination or to a common carrier for delivery to an out-of-state destination.
The gross receipts from the sales shall include delivery charges, when the
charges are subject to the state sales and use tax, regardless of the place to
which delivery is made. In the event a retailer has no permanent place of
business in the state or has more than one place of business, the place or
places at which the retail sales are consummated shall be determined under
rules and regulations to be prescribed and adopted by the Board of
Equalization.
   (B)   (1)   Except as hereinafter provided, and except insofar as they are
inconsistent with the provisions of Cal. Revenue and Taxation Code Part 1.5,
Division 2, all of the provisions of Cal. Revenue and Taxation Code Part 1,
Division 2, as amended, and in force and effect on April 1, 1956, applicable to
sales taxes are hereby adopted and made a part of this section as though fully
set forth herein.
      (2)   Wherever, and to the extent that, in Cal. Revenue and Taxation Code
Part 1, Division 2 is named or referred to as the taxing agency, the county
shall be substituted therefor. Nothing in this division shall require the
substitution of the name of the county for the word “state” when that word is
used as part of the title of the state’s Controller, state’s Treasurer, the
state’s Board of Control, the state’s Board of Equalization or the name of the
state’s Treasury, or of the Constitution of the state; nor shall the name of
the county be substituted for that of the state in any section when the result
of that substitution would require action to be taken by or against the county
or any agency thereof, rather than by or against the state’s Board of
Equalization, in performing the functions incident to the administration or
operation of this article; and neither shall the substitution be deemed to have
been made in those sections, including but not necessarily limited to, sections
referring to the exterior boundaries of the state, where the result of the
substitution would be to provide an exemption from this tax with respect to
certain gross receipts which would not otherwise be exempt from this tax while
those gross receipts remain subject to tax by the state under the provisions of
Cal. Revenue and Taxation Code Part 1, Division 2; nor to impose this tax with
respect to certain gross receipts which would not be subject to tax by the
state under the provisions of Cal. Revenue and Taxation Code Part 1, Division
2; and in addition the name of the county shall not be substituted for that of
the state in Cal. Revenue and Taxation Code §§ 6701, 6702, except in the last
sentence thereof, 6711, 6715, 6737, 6797 and 6828, as adopted in this section.
      (3)   If a seller’s permit has been issued to a retailer under Cal.
Revenue and Taxation Code § 6067, an additional seller’s permit shall not be
required by reason of this section.
      (4)   There shall be excluded from the gross receipts by which the tax is
measured:
         (a)   The amount of any sales or use tax imposed by the state upon a
retailer or consumer; and
         (b)   Eighty percent of the gross receipts from the sale of tangible
personal property to operators of aircraft to be used or consumed principally
outside the county in which the sale is made and directly and exclusively in
the use of the aircraft as common carriers of persons or property under the
authority of the laws of this state, the United States or any foreign
government.
(1966 Code, § 15-3) (Ord. 193, § 4; Ord. 224, §§ 2 to 4; Ord. 321, §§ 2 to 4;
Ord. 338, § 1; Ord. 465, §§ 1, 4)
§ 5.03.033 USE TAX GENERALLY.
   (A)   An excise tax is hereby imposed on the storage, use or other
consumption in the county of tangible personal property purchased from any
retailer on or after April 1, 1956, for storage, use or other consumption in
the county at the rate of 1% of the sales price of the property to and
including June 30, 1972, and at the rate of 1-1/4% thereafter. The sales price
shall include delivery charges when the charges are subject to state sales or
use tax, regardless of the place to which delivery is made.
   (B)   (1)   Except as hereinafter provided, and except insofar as they are
inconsistent with the provisions of Cal. Revenue and Taxation Code Part 1.5,
Division 2, all of the provisions of Cal. Revenue and Taxation Code Part 1,
Division 2, as amended and in force and effect on April 1, 1956, applicable to
use taxes, are hereby adopted and made a part of this section as though fully
set forth herein.
      (2)   Wherever, and to the extent that, in Cal. Revenue and Taxation Code
Part 1.5, Division 2, is named or referred to as the taxing agency, the name of
this county shall be substituted therefor. Nothing in this division shall be
deemed to require the substitution of the name of the county for the word
“state” when that word is used as part of the title of the state’s Controller,
the state’s Treasurer, the state’s Board of Control, the state’s Board of
Equalization or the name of the state’s Treasury, or of the Constitution of the
state; nor shall the name of the county be substituted for that of the state in
any section when the result of that substitution would require action to be
taken by or against the county or any agency thereof rather than by or against
the state’s Board of Equalization, in performing the functions incident to the
administration or operation of this article; and neither shall the substitution
be deemed to have been made in those sections, including but not necessarily
limited to, sections referring to the exterior boundaries of the state where
the results of the substitution would be to provide an exemption from this tax
with respect to certain storage, use or other consumption of tangible personal
property which would not otherwise be exempt from this tax while such storage,
use or other consumption remains subject to tax by the state under the
provisions of Cal. Revenue and Taxation Code Part 1, Division 2, or to impose
this tax with respect to certain storage, use or other consumption of tangible
personal property which would not be subject to tax by the state under the
provisions of the Revenue and Taxation Code; and in addition, the name of the
county shall not be substituted for that of the state in Cal. Revenue and
Taxation Code §§ 6701, 6702 (except in the last sentence thereof), 6711, 6715,
6737, 6797 and 6828, as adopted in this section, and the name of the county
shall not be substituted for the word “state” in the phrase “retailer engaged
in business in this state” in Cal. Revenue and Taxation Code § 6203 nor in the
definition of that phrase in Cal. Revenue and Taxation Code § 6203.
      (3)   There shall be exempt from the tax due under this section:
         (a)   The amount of any sales or use tax imposed by the state upon a
retailer or consumer;
         (b)   The storage, use, or other consumption of tangible personal
property, the gross receipts from the sale of which have been subject to sales
tax under a sales and use tax ordinance enacted in accordance with Cal. Revenue
and Taxation Code Part 1.5, Division 2, by any city and county, county or city
in this state, shall be exempt from the tax due under this section; and
         (c)   In addition to the exemptions provided in Cal. Revenue and
Taxation Code §§ 6366 and 6366.1, the storage, use or other consumption of
tangible personal property purchased by operators of aircraft and used or
consumed by the operators directly and exclusively in the use of such aircraft
as common carriers of persons or property for hire or compensation under a
certificate of public convenience and necessity issued pursuant to the laws of
this state, the United States or any foreign government is exempt from 80% of
the tax.
      (4)   There shall be exempt from the tax due under this section:
         (a)   The amount of any sales or use tax imposed by the state upon a
retailer or consumer;
         (b)   The storage, use or other consumption of tangible personal
property, the gross receipts from the sale of which have been subject to sales
tax under a sales and use tax ordinance enacted in accordance with Cal. Revenue
and Taxation Code Part 1.5, Division 2, by any city and county, county or city
in this state, shall be exempt from the tax due under this section; and
         (c)   In addition to the exemptions provided in Cal. Revenue and
Taxation Code §§ 6366 and 6366.1, the storage, use or other consumption of
tangible personal property purchased by operators of aircraft and used or
consumed by the operators directly and exclusively in the use of the aircraft
as common carriers of persons or property for hire or compensation under a
certificate of public convenience and necessity issued pursuant to the laws of
this state, the United States or any foreign government is exempt from 80% of
the tax.
(1966 Code, § 15-4) (Ord. 193, § 5; Ord. 224, §§ 5, 6; Ord. 321, §§ 5, 6; Ord.
338, § 2; Ord. 465, §§ 2, 5)
§ 5.03.034 CREDIT FOR TAXES PAID TO CITIES IN THE COUNTY; LEVIES UNDER § 7202
(H).
   Any person subject to a sales or use tax or required to collect a use tax
under this article shall be entitled to credit against the payment of taxes due
under this article the amount of sales and use tax due any city in this county,
provided that the city sales and use tax is levied under an ordinance including
provisions substantially conforming to the provisions of Cal. Revenue and
Taxation Code Subdivisions (1) to (8), inclusive, of Subdivision (h) of § 7202,
and other applicable provisions of Cal. Revenue and Taxation Code Part 1.5,
Division 2.
(1966 Code, § 15-5) (Ord. 193, § 6; Ord. 224, § 7; Ord. 465, §§ 3, 6)
§ 5.03.035 SAME; LEVIES UNDER § 7202(I).
   Any person subject to a sales or use tax or required to collect a use tax
under this article shall be entitled to credit against the payment of taxes due
under this article the amount of sales and use tax due any city in this county;
provided, that the city sales and use tax is levied under an ordinance
including provisions substantially conforming to the provisions of Cal. Revenue
and Taxation Code Subsdivisions (1) to (10), inclusive, of Subsection (i) of §
7202, and other applicable provisions of Cal. Revenue and Taxation Code Part
1.5, Division 2.
(1966 Code, § 15-5.1) (Ord. 338, § 3)
§ 5.03.036 APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Sections
5.03.032,
5.03.033 and
5.03.034 shall be operative January 1, 1984.
   (B)   Sections
5.03.032,
5.03.033 and
5.03.034 shall be operative on the operative date of any act of the Legislature
of the State of California, which amends or repeals and reenacts Cal. Revenue
and Taxation Code §§ 7202 and 7203 to provide an exemption for operators of
waterborne vessels in the same or substantially the same language as that
existing in those sections as they read on October 1, 1983.
(1966 Code, § 15-5.2) (Ord. 338, § 4; Ord. 465, §§ 7, 8)
§ 5.03.037 COLLECTION NOT TO BE ENJOINED.
   No injunction or writ of mandate or other legal or equitable process shall
issue in any suit, action or proceeding in any court against the state or the
county or against any officer of the state or. the county to prevent or enjoin
the collection under this article or Cal. Revenue and Taxation Code Part 1.5,
Division 2, of any tax or any amount of tax required to be collected.
(1966 Code, § 15-6) (Ord. 193, § 7)
§ 5.03.038 ADOPTION OF AMENDMENTS TO STATE LAW.
   All amendments of the Revenue and Taxation Code of the state enacted
subsequent to the effective date of this article which relate to the sales and
use tax and which are not inconsistent with Cal. Revenue and Taxation Code Part
1.5, Division 2, shall automatically become a part of this article.
(1966 Code, § 15-7) (Ord. 193, § 8)
§ 5.03.039 ARTICLE INOPERATIVE ON FAILURE OF COUNTY TO COMPLY WITH STATE LAW.
   This article may be made inoperative not less than 60 days, but not earlier
than the first day of the calendar quarter, following the county’s lack of
compliance with Cal. Gov’t Code Article 11 (commencing with § 29530) of Chapter
2 of Division 3 of Title 3.
(1966 Code, § 15-8) (Ord. 321, § 7)
ARTICLE III. TRANSIENT OCCUPANCY TAX
§ 5.03.050 SHORT TITLE.
   This article shall be known as the “Uniform Transient Occupancy Tax Law” of
the County of San Benito.
(1966 Code, § 17A-1) (Ord. 499, § 1)
§ 5.03.051 DEFINITIONS.
   Unless otherwise apparent from the context, certain words and phrases used
in this article are defined as follows.
   HOTEL. Any structure, or any portion of any structure, which is occupied, or
intended or designed for occupancy, by transients for dwelling, lodging or
sleeping purposes, and shall include any hotel, inn, tourist home or house,
motel, studio hotel, bachelor hotel, lodging house, rooming house, apartment
house, dormitory, public or private club, mobile home or house trailer at a
fixed location, campground or other similar structure, or portion thereof.
   OCCUPANCY. The use or possession, or the right to the use or possession, of
any room, or portion thereof, in any hotel for dwelling, lodging or sleeping
purposes.
   OPERATOR.
      (1)   Any person:
         (a)   Possessing or having an ownership interest in a hotel, or who is
the proprietor of the hotel, whether in the capacity of owner, lessee,
sublessee, mortgagee in possession, licensee, or any other capacity;
         (b)   Engaged in the business of operating a hotel; or
         (c)   Receiving any consideration for the rental of a hotel room for
sleeping accommodations, including, without limitation, any broker, service
provider, or other intermediary:
            1.   With which a hotel has contracted to arrange for the rental of
a hotel room for sleeping accommodations; or
            2.   That has acquired any hotel room for subsequent rental from
the hotel for sleeping accommodations.
      (2)   Where the operator performs his or her functions through a managing
agent of any type or character other than an employee, the managing agent shall
also be deemed an operator for the purposes of this article and shall have the
same duties and liabilities as his or her principal. Compliance with the
provisions of this article by either the principal or the managing agent,
however, shall be considered to be compliance by both.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, partnership, joint venture, association,
social club, fraternal organization, joint stock company, corporation, estate,
trust, business trust, receiver, trustee, syndicate or any other group or
combination acting as a unit.
   RENT. The consideration charged, whether or not received, for the occupancy
of space in a hotel valued in money, whether to be received in money, goods,
labor or otherwise, including all receipts, cash, credits, property and
services of any kind or nature, without any deduction therefrom whatsoever.
   TAX ADMINISTRATOR. The Auditor of San Benito County.
   TRANSIENT. Any person who exercises occupancy or is entitled to occupancy by
reason of concession, permit, right of access, license, time-share arrangement
or other agreement of whatever nature, for a period of 30 consecutive calendar
days or less, counting portions of calendar days as full days. Any person so
occupying space in a hotel shall be deemed to be a transient until a period of
30 consecutive calendar days has expired, unless there is an agreement in
writing between the operator and the occupant providing for a longer period of
occupancy. Unless days of occupancy or entitlement to occupancy by one person
are consecutive without any break, then prior or subsequent periods of the
occupancy or entitlement to occupancy shall not be counted when determining
whether a period exceeds 30 calendar days.
(1966 Code, § 17A-2) (Ord. 499, § 2; Measure B Initiative, adopted 2018)
§ 5.03.052 TAX IMPOSED.
   A tax of 12% is levied and imposed on all rent paid to the operator of any
hotel in the unincorporated area of the county, by any transient for renting,
using, or occupying a room or rooms in those hotels, to be paid and collected
as provided in this article. The tax shall constitute a debt owed by the
transient and the operator to the county, which debt shall be extinguished only
by payment to the operator, and then to the county. The transient shall pay the
tax to the operator of the hotel at the time the rent is paid. If the rent is
paid in installments, a proportionate share of the tax shall be paid with each
installment. The unpaid tax shall be due upon the transient’s ceasing to occupy
space in the hotel. If for any reason the tax due is not paid to the operator
of the hotel, the Tax Administrator may require that the tax be paid directly
to the Tax Administrator.
(1966 Code, § 17A-3) (Ord. 499, § 3; Measure B Initiative, adopted 2018)
§ 5.03.053 EXEMPTIONS FROM PROVISIONS.
   (A)   No tax shall be imposed upon:
      (1)   Any person as to whom, or any occupancy as to which, it is beyond
the power of the county to impose the tax provided for in this article;
      (2)   Any federal or state officer or employee when on official business;
or
      (3)   Any officer or employee of a foreign government, which officer or
employee is exempt by reason of express provisions of federal law or
international treaty.
   (B)   No exemption shall be granted except upon a claim therefor made at the
time the rent is collected and under penalty of perjury upon a form prescribed
by the Tax Administrator.
(1966 Code, § 17A-4) (Ord. 499, § 4)
§ 5.03.054 OPERATOR’S DUTIES.
   Each operator shall collect the tax imposed by the provisions of this
article to the same extent and at the same time as the rent is collected from
every transient. The amount of the tax shall be separately stated from the
amount of the rent charged, and each transient shall receive a receipt for
payment from the operator. No operator of a hotel shall advertise or state in
any manner, whether directly or indirectly, that the tax, or any part thereof,
will be assumed or absorbed by the operator, or that it will not be added to
the rent, or that, if added, any part will be refunded, except in the manner
provided in this article.
(1966 Code, § 17A-5) (Ord. 499, § 5)
§ 5.03.055 REGISTRATION.
   Within 30 days after the effective date of this article, or within 30 days
after commencing business, whichever shall first occur, each operator of any
hotel renting an occupancy to transients shall register the hotel with the Tax
Administrator and obtain from him or her a transient occupancy registration
certificate, which shall at all times be posted in a conspicuous place on the
premises. The certificate, among other things, shall set forth the following
information:
   (A)   The name of the operator;
   (B)   The address of the hotel;
   (C)   The date upon which the certificate was issued; and
   (D)   A statement as follows:
“This transient occupancy registration certificate signifies that the person
named on the face hereof has fulfilled the requirements of the uniform
transient occupancy tax law by registering with the Tax Administrator for the
purpose of collecting from transients the transient occupancy tax and remitting
the tax to the Tax Administrator. This certificate shall not authorize any
person to conduct any lawful business or to conduct any lawful business in an
unlawful manner, nor to operate a hotel without strictly complying with all
local applicable laws, including, but not limited to, those requiring a permit
from any board, commission, department or office of the County of San Benito.
This certificate shall not constitute a permit.”
(1966 Code, § 17A-6) (Ord. 499, § 6)
§ 5.03.056 REPORTS AND REMITTANCES.
   (A)   The tax imposed by §
5.03.052 of this article shall:
      (1)   Be due to the Tax Administrator at the time it is collected by the
operator; and
      (2)   Become delinquent and subject to penalties if not received by the
tax administration on or before the last working day of the month following the
close of each calendar quarter.
   (B)   Each operator, on or before the last working day of the month
following the close of each calendar quarter, shall file a return with the Tax
Administrator on the forms provided by him or her of the total rents charged or
chargeable as provided in §
5.03.052, whether or not received, including any rentals charged for
occupancies exempt under the provisions of §
5.03.053 of this article, and the amount of tax collected for transient
occupancies. Each such return shall contain a declaration under penalty of
perjury, executed by the operator or his or her authorized agent, that to the
best of the signer’s knowledge, the statements in the return are true, correct
and complete. Amounts claimed on the return as exempt from the tax pursuant to
§§
5.03.053 and
5.03.062 of this article shall be fully itemized and explained on the return or
supporting schedule. In determining the amount of “taxable receipts” on the tax
return, “rent,” as defined in §
5.03.051 of this article, may not be reduced by any business expense,
including, but not limited to, the amount of service charges deducted by credit
card companies or commissions paid to travel agencies. At the time the return
is filed, the tax fixed at the prevailing transient occupancy tax rate for the
amount of rentals charged or chargeable, which are not exempt from tax pursuant
to §§
5.03.053 and
5.03.062, shall be remitted to the Tax Administrator. The Tax Administrator may
establish other reporting periods and may require a cash deposit or bond or a
separate trust fund bank account for any permit holder if the Tax Administrator
deems it necessary in order to insure the collection of the tax, and he or she
may require further information on the return. All taxes collected by operators
pursuant to this article shall be held in trust for the account of the county
until remittance thereof is made to the Tax Administrator.
(1966 Code, § 17A-7) (Ord. 499, § 7)
§ 5.03.057 PENALTIES AND INTEREST.
   (A)   Original delinquencies. Any operator who shall fail to remit any tax
imposed by the provisions of this article within the time required shall pay a
penalty in the amount of 10% of the tax, in addition to the amount of the tax.
   (B)   Continued delinquencies. Any operator who shall fail to remit any
delinquent remittance on or before a period of 30 days following the date on
which the remittance first became delinquent shall pay a second delinquency
penalty in the amount of 10% of the tax, in addition to the amount of the tax
and the 10% penalty first imposed.
   (C)   Fraud. If the Tax Administrator shall determine that the non-payment
of any remittance due pursuant to the provisions of this article is due to
fraud, a penalty in the amount of 100% of the amount of the tax shall be added
thereto, in addition to the penalties set forth in divisions (A) and (B) of
this section.
   (D)   Interest. In addition to the penalties imposed, any operator who shall
fail to remit any tax imposed by the provisions of this article shall pay
interest at the rate of 1% per month, or fraction thereof, on the amount of the
tax, exclusive of penalties, from the date on which the remittance first became
delinquent until paid.
   (E)   Penalties and interest merged with tax. Every penalty imposed and such
interest as accrues, pursuant to the provisions of this section, shall become a
part of the tax required to be paid by the provisions of this article.
(1966 Code, § 17A-8) (Ord. 499, § 8)
§ 5.03.058 FAILURE TO COLLECT AND REPORT TAX; DETERMINATION OF TAX BY TAX
ADMINISTRATOR.
   If any operator shall fail or refuse to collect the tax and to make, within
the time provided in this article, any report and remittance of the tax, or any
portion thereof, required by the provisions of this article, the Tax
Administrator shall proceed in such manner as he or she may deem best to obtain
the facts and information on which to base his or her estimate of the tax due.
As soon as the Tax Administrator shall procure the facts and information as he
or she is able to obtain upon which to base the assessment of any the tax
imposed by the provisions of this article and payable by any operator who has
failed or refused to collect the tax and to make the report and remittance, the
Tax Administrator shall proceed to determine and assess against the operator
the tax, interest and penalties provided for by the provisions of this article.
In the event the determination is made, the Tax Administrator shall give notice
of the amount so assessed by serving it personally or by depositing it in the
United States mail, postage prepaid, addressed to the operator so assessed at
his or her address as it appears in the records of the Tax Administrator. The
operator, within ten days after the service or mailing of the notice, may make
an application in writing to the Tax Administrator for a hearing on the amount
assessed. If an application by the operator for a hearing is not made within
the time prescribed, the tax, interest and penalties, if any, determined by the
Tax Administrator shall become final and conclusive and immediately due and
payable. If such an application is made, the Tax Administrator shall give not
less than five days written notice in the manner prescribed in this section to
the operator to show cause at a time and place fixed in such notice why the
amount specified therein should not be fixed for the tax, interest and
penalties. At such hearing, the operator may appear and offer evidence why the
specified tax, interest and penalties should not be so fixed. After the
hearing, the Tax Administrator shall determine the proper tax to be remitted
and shall thereafter give written notice to the person in the manner prescribed
in this section of the determination and the amount of the tax, interest and
penalties. The amount determined to be due shall be payable after 15 days,
unless an appeal is filed as provided in §
5.03.059.
(1966 Code, § 17A-9) (Ord. 499, § 9)
§ 5.03.059 APPEALS.
   Any operator aggrieved by any decision of the Tax Administrator with respect
to the amount of the tax, interest and penalties, if any, may appeal to the
Board of Supervisors by filing a notice of appeal with the county’s Clerk
within 15 days after the service or mailing of the determination of the tax
due. The Board of Supervisors shall fix a time and place for hearing the
appeal, and the county’s Clerk shall give notice in writing to the operator at
his or her last known place of address. The findings of the Board of
Supervisors shall be final and conclusive and shall be served upon the
appellant in the manner prescribed in this article for the service of a notice
of hearing. Any amount found to be due shall be immediately due and payable
upon the service of notice.
(1966 Code, § 17A-10) (Ord. 499, § 10)
§ 5.03.060 CESSATION OF BUSINESS.
   Each operator shall notify the Tax Administrator ten days prior to the sale
or cessation of business for any reason, and returns and remittances shall be
due immediately upon the sale or cessation of business.
(1966 Code, § 17A-11) (Ord. 499, § 11)
§ 5.03.061 RECORDS.
   It shall be the duty of every operator liable for the collection and payment
to the county of any tax imposed by the provisions of this article to keep and
preserve, for a period of three years after the date any the tax is due and
payable, all records as may be necessary to determine the amount of the tax as
he or she may have been liable for the collection of, and payment to, the
county, which records the Tax Administrator shall have the right to inspect at
all reasonable times during regular business hours.
(1966 Code, § 17A-12) (Ord. 499, § 12)
§ 5.03.062 REFUNDS.
   (A)   Whenever the amount of any tax, interest or penalty has been overpaid,
or paid more than once, or erroneously or illegally collected or received by
the county, pursuant to the provisions of this article, the amount may be
refunded as provided in divisions (B) and (C) of this section, provided a claim
in writing therefor, stating under penalty of perjury the specific grounds upon
which the claim is founded, is filed with the Tax Administrator within three
years after the date of payment. The claim shall be on forms furnished by the
Tax Administrator.
   (B)   Any operator may claim a refund or take as credit against taxes
collected and remitted the amount overpaid, paid more than once, or erroneously
or illegally collected or received when it is established in a manner
prescribed by the Tax Administrator that the person from whom the tax has been
collected was not a transient; provided, however, neither a refund, nor a
credit shall be allowed unless the amount of the tax so collected has either
been refunded to the transient or credited to rent subsequently payable by the
transient to the operator.
   (C)   A transient may obtain a refund of taxes overpaid, paid more than
once, or erroneously or illegally collected or received by the county, by
filing a claim in the manner provided in division (A) of this section, but only
when the transient, having paid the tax to the operator, establishes to the
satisfaction of the Tax Administrator that the transient has been unable to
obtain a refund from the operator who collected the tax.
   (D)   No refund shall be paid pursuant to the provisions of this section
unless the claimant establishes his or her right thereto by written records
showing entitlement thereto.
(1966 Code, § 17A-13) (Ord. 499, § 13)
§ 5.03.063 SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION OF PERMITS.
   Whenever any operator fails to comply with any provision of this article
relating to the transient occupancy tax or any rule or regulations of the Tax
Administrator relating to the tax prescribed and adopted by this article, the
Tax Administrator, upon a hearing, after giving the operator ten days written
notice, specifying the time and place of the hearing and requiring him or her
to show cause why his or her permit or permits should not be revoked, may
suspend or revoke any one or more of the permits held by the operator. The Tax
Administrator shall give to the operator written notice of the suspension or
revocation of any of his or her permits. The notices required by this section
may be served personally or by mail in the manner prescribed for the service of
a notice of a deficiency determination. The Tax Administrator shall not issue a
new permit after the revocation of a permit, unless he or she is satisfied that
the former holder of the permit will comply with the provisions of this article
relating to the transient occupancy tax and the regulations of the Tax
Administrator.
(1966 Code, § 17A-14) (Ord. 499, § 14)
§ 5.03.064 CLOSURE OF HOTELS WITHOUT PERMITS.
   During any period of time during which a permit has not been issued, or is
suspended, revoked or otherwise not validly in effect, the Tax Administrator
may require that the hotel be closed.
(1966 Code, § 17A-15) (Ord. 499, § 15)
§ 5.03.065 RECORDING CERTIFICATES; LIENS.
   If any amount required to be remitted or paid to the county pursuant to this
article is not remitted or paid when due, the Tax Administrator, within three
years after the amount is due, may file for record in the office of the
county’s Recorder, a certificate specifying the amount of tax, penalties and
interest due, the name and address as they appear in the records of the Tax
Administrator of the operator liable for the same, and the fact that the Tax
Administrator has complied with all the provisions of this article in the
determination of the amount required to be remitted and paid. From the time of
the filing for record, the amount required to be remitted, together with
penalties and interest, shall constitute a lien upon all real property in the
county owned by the operator or afterwards and before the lien expires acquired
by him or her. The lien shall have the force, effect and priority of a judgment
lien and shall continue for ten years after the time of filing the certificate,
unless sooner released or otherwise discharged.
(1966 Code, § 17A-16) (Ord. 499, § 16)
§ 5.03.066 PRIORITY OF LIENS.
   (A)   The amounts required to be remitted and/or paid by any operator
pursuant to this article, with penalties and interest, shall be satisfied first
in any of the following cases:
      (1)   Whenever the person becomes insolvent;
      (2)   Whenever the person makes a voluntary assignment of his or her
assets;
      (3)   Whenever the estate of the person is in the hands of executors,
administrators or heirs, is insufficient to pay all of the debts due from the
deceased; and
      (4)   Whenever the estate and effects of an absconding, concealed or
absent person required to pay any amount pursuant to this article is levied
upon by process of law. This article shall not give the county a preference
over any recorded lien which attached prior to the date when the amounts
required to be paid become a lien.
   (B)   The preference given to the county by this section shall be
subordinate to the preferences given to claims for personal services by Cal.
Code of Civil Procedure §§ 1204 through 1208.
(1966 Code, § 17A-17) (Ord. 499, § 17)
§ 5.03.067 WARRANTS FOR THE COLLECTION OF TAX.
   At any time within three years after any operator is delinquent in the
remittance or payment of any amount required by this article to be remitted or
paid, or within three years after the last recording of a certificate pursuant
to §
5.03.065 of this article, the Tax Administrator may issue a warrant for the
enforcement of any lien and for the collection of any amount required to be
paid to the county pursuant to this article. The warrant shall be directed to
any sheriff or marshal or constable and shall have the same effect as a writ of
execution. The warrant shall be levied and the sale made pursuant to it, in the
same manner and with the same effect as a writ of execution. The Tax
Administrator, and not the court, shall approve the fees for publication in a
newspaper.
(1966 Code, § 17A-18) (Ord. 499, § 18)
§ 5.03.068 SEIZURES AND SALES.
   At any time within three years after any operator is delinquent in the
remittance or payment of any amount due pursuant to this article, the Tax
Administrator may forthwith collect the amount by seizing any property, real or
personal, of the operator and sell the property, or a sufficient part of it, at
a public auction, to pay the amount due, together with any penalties and
interest imposed for the delinquency and any costs incurred on account of the
seizure and sale. Any seizure made to collect transient occupancy taxes due
shall be only of property of the operator not exempt from execution under the
provisions of the California Code of Civil Procedure.
(1966 Code, § 17A-19) (Ord. 499, § 19)
§ 5.03.069 SUCCESSORS’ LIABILITY; WITHHOLDING BY PURCHASERS.
   If any operator liable for any amount pursuant to this article sells his or
her business or quits the business, his or her successors or assigns shall
withhold a sufficient amount from the purchase price to cover the amount owing
until the former owner produces a receipt from the Tax Administrator showing
that the amount has been paid or a certificate stating that no amount is due.
(1966 Code, § 17A-20) (Ord. 499, § 20)
§ 5.03.070 LIABILITY OF PURCHASERS; RELEASE.
   If the purchaser of a hotel fails to withhold from the purchase price as
required, he or she shall become personally liable for the payment of the
amount required to be withheld by him or her to the extent of the purchase
price, valued in money. Within 60 days after receiving a written request from
the purchaser for a certificate, or within 60 days after the date the records
of the former owner are made available for audit, whichever period expires
last, but in any event not later than 90 days after receiving the request, the
Tax Administrator shall either issue the certificate or mail a notice to the
purchaser at his or her address as it appears in the records of the Tax
Administrator of the amount which shall be paid as a condition of issuing the
certificate. Failure of the Tax Administrator to mail the notice will release
the purchaser from any further obligation to withhold the purchase price as
provided in this article. The time within which the obligation of the successor
may be enforced shall start to run at the time the operator sells his or her
business or at the time the determination against the operator becomes final,
whichever shall last occur.
(1966 Code, § 17A-21) (Ord. 499, § 21)
§ 5.03.071 NOTICES TO WITHHOLD.
   If any operator is delinquent in the remittance or payment of the amount
required to be remitted or paid by him or her pursuant to this article, or in
the event a determination has been made against him or her for the remittance
of the tax and the payment of the penalty, the county, within three years after
the tax obligation becomes due, may give notice thereof by personal delivery or
by registered mail to the operator and any persons, including the state or any
political subdivision thereof, having in their possession or under their
control, any credits or other personal property belonging to the taxpayer.
After receiving the withholding notice, the person so notified shall make no
disposition of the operator’s credits, other personal property or debts, until
the county consents to a transfer or disposition or until 60 days elapse after
the receipt of the notice, whichever expires earlier. All persons, upon the
receipt of the notice, whichever expires earlier. All persons, upon the receipt
of the notice, shall advise the county immediately of all such credits, other
personal property or debts in their possessions, under their control or owing
by them. If the notice seeks to prevent the transfer or other disposition of a
deposit in a bank or other credits or personal property in the possession or
under the control of the bank, to be effective the notice shall be delivered or
mailed to the branch or office of the bank at which the deposit is carried or
at which the credits or personal property is held. If any person so notified
makes a transfer or disposition of the property or debts required to be held
pursuant to this section during the effective period of the notice to withhold,
he or she shall be liable to the county to the extent of the value of the
release up to the amount of the indebtedness owed by the taxpayer to the
county.
(1966 Code, § 17A-22) (Ord. 499, § 22)
§ 5.03.072 EXTENSIONS OF TIME.
   The Tax Administrator, for good cause, may extent for not to exceed 30 days
the time for making any return or paying any amount required to be paid
pursuant to this article. The extension may be granted at any time, provided a
request therefor is filed with the Tax Administrator within or prior to the
period for which the extension may be granted. Any person to whom an extension
is granted shall pay, in addition to the tax, interest at the rate of 1% per
month, or fraction thereof, from the date on which the tax would have been due
without the extension, until the date of payment.
(1966 Code, § 17A-23) (Ord. 499, § 23)
§ 5.03.073 DIVULGING OF INFORMATION FORBIDDEN.
   It shall be unlawful for any person having an administrative duty pursuant
to this article to make known in any manner whatever the business affairs,
operation or information obtained by an investigation of the records of any
operator or any other person visited or examined in the discharge of his or her
official duty, or the amount or source of income, profits, losses or
expenditures, or any particular thereof, set forth or disclosed in any return,
or to knowingly permit any return, or copy thereof, or any abstract, or
particular thereof, to be seen or examined by any person. Successors,
receivers, trustees, executors, administrators, assignees and guarantors, if
directly interested, may be given information as to the items included in the
amount of any unpaid tax or amounts of tax, penalties and interest required to
be collected.
(1966 Code, § 17A-24) (Ord. 499, § 24)
§ 5.03.074 VIOLATIONS; PENALTIES.
   (A)   Except for the failure of an operator to pay to the Tax Administrator
taxes due pursuant to this article, which failure to pay shall be punishable as
a felony, pursuant to Cal. Penal Code § 424, every violation of this article
shall be a misdemeanor and punishable by a fine not exceeding $500, or by
imprisonment in the county jail for not more than six months, or by both the
fine and imprisonment.
   (B)   If the offense is not otherwise punishable as set forth in division
(A) of this section, any person wilfully failing to comply with, or knowingly
violating any of the provisions of this article shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor, punishable as provided in division (A) of this section.
   (C)   Any operator or other person who wilfully fails or refuses to register
as required by this article, or to furnish any return required to be made, or
who fails or refuses to furnish a supplemental return or other data required by
the Tax Administrator, or who renders a false or fraudulent return or claim,
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. Any person required to make, render, sign or
verify any report or claim, who willfully makes any false or fraudulent report
or claim with intent to defeat or evade the determination of any amount due
required by this article to be made shall be guilty of a misdemeanor,
punishable as provided in division (A) of this section.
(1966 Code, § 17A-25) (Ord. 499, § 25)
ARTICLE IV. BUSINESS LICENSE TAX
SUBARTICLE I. GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 5.03.090 SHORT TITLE.
   This article shall be known as the "Business License Tax Article."
(1966 Code, § 21-100) (Ord. 601, § 1(part); Measure H Initiative, adopted 2018)
§ 5.03.091 TAX IMPOSED.
   There is established and imposed, commencing on the effective date of the
ordinance codified in this article, a business license tax at the rates set
forth in this article.
(1966 Code, § 21-101) (Ord. 601, § 1(part); Measure H Initiative, adopted 2018)
§ 5.03.092 PURPOSE OF ARTICLE.
   This article is enacted solely to raise revenue for the general governmental
purposes of the county and not for purposes of regulation. All of the proceeds
from the tax imposed by this article shall be placed in the county's general
fund and used for the usual current expenses of the county, howsoever incurred.
(1966 Code, § 21-102) (Ord. 601, § 1(part); Measure H Initiative, adopted 2018)
§ 5.03.093 EFFECT ON OTHER ORDINANCES.
   Persons required to pay a license tax for transacting and carrying on any
business under this article shall not be relieved from the payment of any
license fee for the privilege of doing the business required under any other
ordinance of the county, and shall remain subject to the regulatory provisions
of other ordinances.
(1966 Code, § 21-103) (Ord. 601, § 1(part); Measure H Initiative, adopted 2018)
§ 5.03.094 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this article, the following words and phrases shall have
the meaning respectively ascribed to them by this section.
   APARTMENT. A room or suite of rooms which is/are designed to be occupied by
one family for living or sleeping purposes in an APARTMENT HOUSE.
   APARTMENT HOUSE. A building in which three or more families are living
independently of each other.
   AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS EMPLOYED. The average number of EMPLOYEES located
within the unincorporated area of the COUNTY engaged during the three-month
period of maximum employment, excluding therefrom temporary seasonal EMPLOYEES
not employed for a period in excess of two weeks.
   BOARD. The Board of Supervisors of the COUNTY.
   BUSINESS.  BUSINESS includes all professions, trades, occupations, and
callings carried on in the unincorporated area of the COUNTY for profit or
livelihood, or those conducted by the exercise of corporate or franchise
powers. BUSINESS also includes, without limitation, every kind of commercial
enterprise, and includes the operation of games, machines, or mechanical
devices in the unincorporated area of the COUNTY.
   CONCESSIONER. The PERSON who rents or leases a portion of a premises for
some specific use.
   CONSTRUCTION CONTRACTOR. Every PERSON conducting or carrying on a BUSINESS
who is required to be licensed as a CONTRACTOR by the state and who undertakes
to, offers to undertake to, purports to have the capacity of undertaking to,
submits bids to, or does himself or herself or by or through others, construct,
alter, repair, add to, subtract from, improve, move, wreck or demolish any
building, highway, railroad, excavation, or other structure, project,
development, or improvement, or to do any part thereof, including the erection
of scaffolding, or other structures or works in connection therewith. The term
CONTRACTOR, as used in this section, also includes SUBCONTRACTOR and SPECIALTY
CONTRACTOR.
   CONTRACT CONSTRUCTION BUSINESS. All BUSINESS activities carried out by
CONSTRUCTION CONTRACTORS.
   COUNTY. The County of San Benito.
   DEPLETED MINERALS. Finished MINERAL products excavated or removed from
within the COUNTY and shall be measured by the weight of the FINISHED PRODUCT
(S). For purposes of assessing the business license tax specified in this
article, DEPLETED MINERALS shall be measured at the time the MINERALS are sold,
are transported out of the COUNTY, or are used on any project within the
COUNTY, whichever event occurs first.
   EMPLOYEE. A PERSON who works for an employer, where right or control exists
with the employer, where directions on performance of work can be given by
employer, and where breach of contract is not involved if work is halted by
employer or EMPLOYEE; furthermore, if there is prima facie evidence that a
PERSON is included on the payroll deductions, such as federal taxes and social
security, the PERSON may be considered to be an EMPLOYEE.
   ENGAGING IN BUSINESS. Commencing, conducting, or continuing in BUSINESS, and
also the exercise of corporate or franchise powers, as well as liquidating a
BUSINESS when the liquidators thereof hold themselves out to the public as
conducting such BUSINESS.
   FINISHED PRODUCT. The raw MINERALS which have finally been processed to
whatever degree, but to which no amendments, such as cement, petroleum-based
products, or the like, have yet been added. In any case, any MINERAL will be
considered a FINISHED PRODUCT when it leaves the COUNTY.
   HOTEL or MOTEL. A building or series of buildings on one site, containing
three or more units used for guest occupancy, and intended and designed to be
used for occupancy by temporary guests, and having the usual characteristics of
a HOTEL or MOTEL.
   ITINERANT VENDOR. All PERSONS, both principal and agent, who engage in a
temporary and transient BUSINESS in the unincorporated area of the COUNTY,
providing services, selling articles of wearing apparel, dry goods, fancy
foods, notions, jewelry, cutlery, groceries, harness, machinery, vehicles of
all kinds, hardware, photographs or photograph, tinware, mill products, or
merchandise of any class or character with the intentions of continuing the
BUSINESS in such area of the COUNTY for a period of not less than one day and
not more than 90 days, and who for the purpose of carrying on such BUSINESS
have no fixed place for BUSINESS, or hire, lease, or occupy any room, building,
or structure for the exhibition or sale of the merchandise or services, or from
which room, building, or structure the sales are to be made, or BUSINESS
solicited by means of samples or delivery from house to house. Any such PERSON
or firm so engaged shall not be relieved from the provisions of this article by
reason of associating temporarily with any local dealer, trader, merchant, or
auctioneer or by conducting such temporary or transient BUSINESS in connection
with, or as a part of, or in the name of, any local dealer, merchant, or
auctioneer.
   MANUFACTURING BUSINESS. Any BUSINESS wherein PERSONS are engaged in making
materials, raw or partially finished, or assembling finished parts, into
articles suitable for use.
   MINE. The same meaning as specified in Cal. Public Resources Code § 2200.
   MINERALS. The same meaning as specified in Cal. Public Resources Code §
2005.
   MINING OPERATION. The BUSINESS conducted by a MINING OPERATOR.
   MINING OPERATOR. The PERSON operating a MINE, or the PERSON owning a royalty
or other interest in the production of a MINE. For purposes of this article,
the PERSON operating a MINE and the person owning a royalty or other interest
in the MINE shall be jointly and severally liable for the tax imposed by this
article.
   PERSON. All domestic and foreign corporations, associations, syndicates,
joint stock corporations, limited liability companies, partnerships of every
kind, clubs, BUSINESSES, or common law trusts, societies, and individuals
transacting and carrying on any BUSINESS in the unincorporated area of the
COUNTY, other than as an EMPLOYEE.
   PROCESSING. Any mining activity occurring after the severance of the MINERAL
resources. PROCESSING shall include, without limitation, activities such as
screening, washing, and crushing.
   PROFESSIONAL.
      (1)   Any PERSON engaged in BUSINESS or activity characterized by or
conforming to the technical or ethical standards of a profession, including,
but not limited to, those listed below:
         (a)   Accountant;
         (b)   Appraiser;
         (c)   Architect;
         (d)   Assayer;
         (e)   Attorney;
         (f)    Chemist/pharmacist;
         (g)   Chiropractor;
         (h)   Consultant;
         (i)   Dentist;
         (j)   Dermatologist;
         (k)   Designer;
         (l)   Electrologist;
         (m)   Engineer;
         (n)   Chemical;
         (o)   Civil;
         (p)   Consultant;
         (q)   Electrical;
         (r)   Hydraulic;
         (s)   Mechanical;
         (t)   Mining;
         (u)   Structural;
         (v)   Entomologist;
         (w)   Geologist;
         (x)   Insurance agent;
         (y)   Landscape architect;
         (z)   Optician;
         (aa)   Optometrist;
         (bb)   Osteopath;
         (cc)   Physician;
         (dd)   Physiotherapist;
         (ee)   Podiatrist;
         (ff)   Real estate broker;
         (gg)   Radiologist;
         (hh)   Surgeon; and
         (ii)   Veterinarian.
      (2)   Each PERSON engaged in one of the above-entitled professions, and
such other professions as may be defined by the TAX ADMINISTRATOR, shall be
deemed to be conducting a separate BUSINESS for purposes of the business
license tax. When two or more PROFESSIONALS employ PERSONS jointly, or by joint
agreement or arrangement, each such PROFESSIONAL shall be jointly and severally
responsible for the payment of the business license tax based on EMPLOYEES,
however, the total number of EMPLOYEES shall be divided equally by the number
of PROFESSIONALS in the office, and rounded up to the nearest whole EMPLOYEE
number to determine the tax for each PROFESSIONAL.
   RETAIL BUSINESS. Every BUSINESS conducted for the purpose of selling or
offering for sale any goods, wares, or merchandise other than as part of a
WHOLESALE BUSINESS.
   SEVER. To remove from, or cause to become separated from, the land.
   TAX ADMINISTRATOR. The COUNTY'S TAX COLLECTOR.
   TAX COLLECTOR. The COUNTY TAX COLLECTOR or such PERSON that the TAX
COLLECTOR may designate as his/her designee.
   TAXPAYER. Any PERSON liable for the payment of the tax imposed by this
article.
   WHOLESALE BUSINESS. Every BUSINESS conducted solely for the purpose of
selling goods, wares, or merchandise whole lots for resale.
   WITHIN THE COUNTY. Within the exterior geographical limits of the
unincorporated area of the COUNTY, not including any territory of the
incorporated cities within the COUNTY, or the territory held under ownership of
the federal government.
(1966 Code, § 21-104) (Ord. 601, § 1(part); Ord. 615, §§ 1, 2; Measure H
Initiative, adopted 2018)
§ 5.03.095 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The Board may make rules and regulations not inconsistent with the
provisions of this article as may be necessary or desirable to aid in the
enforcement of this article.
(1966 Code, § 21-105) (Ord. 601, § 1(part); Measure H Initiative, adopted 2018)
§ 5.03.096 EMPLOYMENT OF NECESSARY PERSONNEL.
   The Board may employ accountants, auditors, investigators, and other expert
and clerical assistance necessary to enforce its powers and perform its duties
under this article.
(1966 Code, § 21-106) (Ord. 601, § 1(part); Measure H Initiative, adopted 2018)
§ 5.03.097 PLANNING DEPARTMENT.
   The Resource Management Agency, when requested by the Board or Tax
Collector, shall provide information to the Board or Tax Collector to aid in
implementing this article.
(1966 Code, § 21-107) (Ord. 601, § 1(part); Measure H Initiative, adopted 2018)
§ 5.03.098 REQUIRED NOTICES; CERTIFICATE BY BOARD AS EVIDENCE.
   (A)   Any notice provided by this article to be mailed or served may be
given either by mailing or by
personal service. The giving of the notice shall be deemed complete at the time
of the deposit in a United States post office, or a mailbox, subpost office,
substation, mail chute, or other facility regularly maintained or provided by
the United States Postal Service, without extension of time for any reason, or
in the case of personal service, at the time of delivery.
   (B)   A certificate by the county or an employee of the county stating that
a notice required by this article was given by mailing or personal service is
prima facie evidence in any administrative or judicial proceeding of the fact
and regularity of the mailing or personal service in accordance with any
requirement of this article for the giving of a notice.
(1966 Code, § 21-108) (Ord. 601, § 1(part); Measure H Initiative, adopted 2018)
§ 5.03.099 DISCLOSURE OF BUSINESS AFFAIRS, OPERATIONS OR OTHER INFORMATION
SUBMITTED IN REQUIRED REPORT OR RETURN; AUTHORIZATION OF EXAMINATION OF
RECORDS.
   Neither the county nor any person having an administrative duty under this
article shall disclose, in violation of the Public Records Act, the business
affairs, operations, or any other information pertaining to a taxpayer which
was submitted to the county in a report or return required by this part, or
permit any report or copy thereof, or any book containing any abstract or
particulars thereof, to be seen or examined by any person not authorized by the
Public Records Act or this article, or other provision of state or federal law,
to receive such information.
(1966 Code, § 21-109) (Ord. 601, § 1(part); Measure H Initiative, adopted 2018)
§ 5.03.100 SUCCESSORS TO TAXPAYER; TAX INFORMATION.
   A taxpayer's successors, receivers, trustees, executors, administrators,
assignees or guarantors, if directly interested, may be given information
regarding the determination of any unpaid tax or the amount of taxes or
penalties required to be collected or assessed.
(1966 Code, § 21-110) (Ord. 601, § 1(part); Measure H Initiative, adopted 2018)
§ 5.03.101 EFFECT ON PUBLIC ACCESS TO RELEVANT INFORMATION.
   Except as provided herein, this article does not limit nor increase public
access to information made available pursuant to any other state or local law,
regulation, or ordinance.
(1966 Code, § 21-111) (Ord. 601, § 1(part); Measure H Initiative, adopted 2018)
SUBARTICLE II. BUSINESS LICENSE TAX
§ 5.03.120 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   On or after July 1, 2019, no person shall conduct any business in the
unincorporated area of the county without having an unrevoked license from the
county to do so, valid and in effect at the time, and without complying with
any and all regulations of the business contained within this article.
   (B)   For purposes of this article, conducting business in the
unincorporated areas of the county means transacting or carrying on any
business in the unincorporated area of the county for at least 30 days, not
necessarily consecutive. It shall be immaterial whether such business has a
physical office in the unincorporated area of the county.
   (C)   Notwithstanding division (B) above, a business license for an
itinerant vendor shall be required when that vendor conducts business within
the unincorporated area of the county for at least one day, or portion thereof,
such as that the license would be required before the conduct of business the
second day in the county within a one year period.
(1966 Code, § 21-200) (Ord. 601, § 1(part); Ord. 615, § 3; Measure H
Initiative, adopted 2018)
§ 5.03.121 CONCESSIONER.
   (A)   General. Every person who operates any business, whether upon a cost,
rental, or commission basis, as a concession or upon rented floor space in or
upon the premises of any person licensed under any provision of this article,
is required to obtain a separate and independent license pursuant to the
appropriate provisions hereof, and shall be subject to all provisions of this
article.
   (B)   Non-profit corporations. Any nonprofit corporation which is exempt
from both federal and state income tax shall be exempt from the payment of a
business license tax.
(1966 Code, § 21-201) (Ord. 601, § 1(part); Ord. 643, § 1, 1993; Measure H
Initiative, adopted 2018)
§ 5.03.122 CLASSIFICATION AND TAX RATE.
   (A)   Class A. Each retail, wholesale, construction, and manufacturing
business, excluding a mining operation, and each business for which no other
classification is provided in this section, shall be treated as a class A
business. Each class A business shall pay an annual basic license tax specified
in §
5.03.123(A), in addition to the annual payment of an amount determined by
multiplying the average number of employees by the class A business employee
multiplier specified in §
5.03.123(B).
   (B)   Class B. Each service business, hotel and motel, rental property,
entertainment services, food service, apartment house, each business engaged in
the leasing or renting of commercial or industrial space, and each business
engaged in providing recreation and entertainment services and facilities,
shall be treated as a class B business. Each class B business shall pay an
annual basic license tax specified in §
5.03.123(A), in addition to the annual payment of an amount determined by
multiplying the average number of employees by the class B business employee
multiplier specified in §
5.03.123(B).
   (C)   Class C. Each professional shall be treated as a class C business.
Each class C business shall pay an annual basic license tax specified in §
5.03.123(A) in addition to the annual payment of an amount determined by
multiplying the average number of employees by the class C business employee
multiplier specified in §
5.03.123(B).
   (D)   Class D. Each itinerant vendor shall be treated as a class D business.
Each class D business shall pay a basic license tax specified in §
5.03.123(A) in addition to the payment of an amount determined by multiplying
the average number of employees by the class D business employee multiplier
specified in §
5.03.123(B).
   (E)   Class E. Each mining operation shall be treated as a class E business.
Each class E business shall pay a basic license tax specified in §
5.03.123(A) in addition to the annual payment of an amount determined by
multiplying the number of tons of the minerals depleted during the preceding
year by the tonnage multiplier specified in §
5.03.123(C).
(1966 Code, § 21-202) (Ord. 601, § 1(part); Measure H Initiative, adopted 2018)
§ 5.03.123 TAX DUE AND ANNUAL ADJUSTMENT OF TAX RATES.
   (A)   The base license tax for each class A business, class B business,
class C business, and class E business, effective July 1, 2019, is $118.80. The
base license tax for a class D business effective July 1, 2019, is $30.00. The
above rates shall be adjusted as specified in division (D).
   (B)   Employee multipliers.
      (1)   Commencing the fiscal year beginning July 1, 2019, the employee
multiplier for class A, class B, class C, and class D businesses as set forth
below shall be added to the base license tax rate to determine the entire
business license tax due. These rates shall be adjusted as set forth in
division (D):
         (a)   Class A business: $2.64 per average number of employees;
         (b)   Class B business: $5.22 per average number of employees;
         (c)   Class C business: $7.80 per average number of employees; and
         (d)   Class D business: $0.66 per average number of employees.
      (2)   The above rates shall be adjusted as specified in division (D).
   (C)   Tonnage multiplier. For fiscal year beginning July 1, 2019, the
tonnage multiplier shall be $0.10 per ton of minerals depleted. The tonnage
multiplier in subsequent years shall be adjusted as specified in division (D).
Beginning July 1, 2019, the tonnage multiplier shall be determined and added to
the business license base rate to determine the total business license tax rate
due.
   (D)   Commencing on July 1, 2019, and every July 1 thereafter, the Tax
Administrator shall annually adjust the amount of the basic license tax rates,
the employer multiplier rates, and the tonnage multiplier rates. The basic
license rate, the rates for the average number of employees, and for the
tonnage, for each class of business specified in §
5.03.122 and this section by the annual change in the Consumer Price Index, All
Urban Consumers, for the San Francisco-Oakland-San Jose Metropolitan Area,
published by the Bureau of Labor Statistics, or any replacement index published
by the bureau ("index"). For example, on July 1, 2019, the basic license tax
rates and the additional license tax rates shall be adjusted by multiplying
them by the April 2019, index divided by the April, 2018 index, to determine
the percentage increase in the Consumer Price Index. The tax rate once
increased shall be rounded to the nearest cent.
(1966 Code, § 21-203) (Ord. 601, § 1(part); Measure H Initiative, adopted 2018)
§ 5.03.124 DATA; PREVIOUS YEARS.
   For the purposes of determining the number of employees or the tonnage as
required in §§
5.03.122 and
5.03.123, the business owner shall provide the necessary data for the previous
county fiscal year. The Tax Collector shall compute the tax based on accurate
information from the previous county fiscal year.
(1966 Code, § 21-204) (Ord. 601, § 1(part); Measure H Initiative, adopted 2018)
§ 5.03.125 REVIEW OF CLASSIFICATION.
   (A)   In any case where a licensee or an applicant for a license believes
that the individual business of the licensee or applicant is not assigned to
the proper classification under this article because of circumstances peculiar
to it, as distinguished from other businesses of the same kind, the licensee or
applicant may apply to the Tax Administrator for reclassification. The
application shall contain such information as the Tax Administrator may deem
necessary and require in order to determine the applicant's individual business
is properly classified. The Tax Administrator shall then assign an individual
business to a classification shown to be proper on the basis of the
investigation. The proper classification is that which, in the opinion of the
Tax Administrator, most nearly fits the applicant's individual business.
   (B)   The reclassification shall not be retroactive, but shall apply at the
time of the next regularly ensuing calculation of the applicant's tax, except
where the applicant applies for reclassification within 30 days of his or her
original classification, in which case the reclassification shall be
retroactive.
   (C)   The Tax Administrator shall notify the applicant of the action taken
on the application for reclassification. The notice shall be given by mail.
(1966 Code, § 21-205) (Ord. 601, § 1(part); Measure H Initiative, adopted 2018)
§ 5.03.126 BRANCH ESTABLISHMENTS.
   A separate license must be obtained for each branch establishment or
location of the business transacted and carried on, and for each separate
business at the same location; provided, that warehouses and distributing
plants used in connection with or incidental to a business license under the
provisions of this article shall not be deemed to be separate places of
business or branch establishments. A separate business at the same location is
a business operation conducted under a different name which business operation
provides a product or service unrelated to the products or services provided by
the other business operation at the same location. For the purpose of a class E
license, the mining operator shall obtain only one business license, which
license shall be based upon the total of all minerals depleted by all
operations within the unincorporated area of county. The original class E
license shall be displayed at the principal mining operation location. Copies
shall be displayed at all other mining operation locations.
(1966 Code, § 21-206) (Ord. 601, § 1(part); Measure H Initiative, adopted 2018)
§ 5.03.127 EXEMPTIONS.
   No tax prescribed in this article shall be deemed or construed to apply to
any of the following persons who are exempted from payment thereof.
   (A)   Agricultural. When it applies to growers of livestock, poultry, or
agricultural products for sale or disposal by growers only. This exception
shall not apply to agricultural suppliers and agricultural support businesses,
including, but not limited to, businesses relating to irrigation, seeds,
fertilizer, transportation, supplies, services, and/or labor companies, or to
businesses involved in cannabis/marijuana cultivation.
   (B)   Charitable and non-profit organizations. Any church, school,
charitable, benevolent, or social organizations conducting any exhibition,
show, or performance for the exclusive benefit of the church, school,
benevolent, or social organization. Also any bona fide church, bona fide
school, bona fide veterans' organization, or bona fide charity conducting any
sale or business for the exclusive benefit of the church, school, veterans'
organization, or charity, provided such is located within the unincorporated
area of the county. The exemption shall not apply to any person operating any
business, show, sale, exhibition, or enterprise for profit who shares such
profit with any church, school, veterans' organization, charity, or charitable,
benevolent, or social organization.
   (C)   Conflict with federal and state law. Any person conducting any
business exempt by virtue of the Constitution or applicable statutes of the
United States or of the State of California from the payment to counties of the
taxes as are herein prescribed is exempt from license.
   (D)   Day care facilities. Day care homes and day care centers shall be
exempt from license taxes.
   (E)   Disabled veterans. Any honorably discharged soldier, sailor, or marine
from the military or naval services of the United States of America, who is
unable to earn a livelihood by manual labor, and who hawks, peddles, or vends
any kind of goods in the unincorporated area of the county (where the sale of
such goods would otherwise be allowed by state and local law), provided that
the person has obtained, in advance, a written permit issued by a veteran's
service officer of the county and a written permit from the county's
Administrative Officer.
   (F)   Employees. No person who is an employee or who is the direct
representative of a licensee shall be required to pay a license tax for doing
any part of the work of the licensee.
   (G)   Growers. Persons selling or otherwise disposing of livestock, poultry,
or agricultural products raised by the seller only.
   (H)   Nurses. Nurses shall be exempt from license taxes.
   (I)   Rooming houses. Rooming houses with two rental rooms or less.
   (J)   Teachers. Teachers or instructors, including, but not limited to,
teachers or instructors of the fine arts such as painting, vocal and
instrumental music, drawing, sculpture, ceramics, pottery, dancing, dramatics,
and arrangements, providing that all of the following conditions exist:
      (1)   The instruction is given only in the homes of the teacher or
instructor or student:
      (2)   The teacher or instructor has no employee or employees; and
      (3)   The teacher or instructor is not required to hold a sales tax
permit.
   (K)   Vending machines. Persons operating vending machines used for the sale
of food, gum, tobacco, drinks, or other merchandise, where the vending machines
are operated in connection with a regularly licensed business and in the same
premises.
(1966 Code, § 21-207) (Ord. 601, § 1(part); Measure H Initiative, adopted 2018)
§ 5.03.128 LICENSE NONTRANSFERABLE.
   No license hereunder shall be transferred or assigned.
(1966 Code, § 21-208) (Ord. 601, § 1(part); Measure H Initiative, adopted 2018)
§ 5.03.129 LICENSE TAX; HOW PAYABLE.
   The license tax shall be paid to and collected by the Tax Administrator who
shall sign all licenses issued by the county and shall number and keep a record
thereof. The record shall show the numbers, dates thereof, to whom issued, the
type of business licensed, the location thereof, the number of employees, the
time of expiration, and the amount of license tax.
(1966 Code, § 21-209) (Ord. 601, § 1(part); Measure H Initiative, adopted 2018)
§ 5.03.130 LICENSE APPLICATION; CONTENTS.
   Before any license is issued, a written application by the applicant shall
be made upon a form prescribed by the Tax Administrator. The applicant shall
supply any information which the Tax Administrator may require to enable him or
her to issue the type of license applied for. The application shall be signed
by the owner, if a natural person, or, in the case of a corporation, by an
executive officer or some person specifically authorized by resolution of the
corporation to sign the application. The Tax Administrator may require such
information as may be necessary in order to issue a license renewing an
existing license; provided, however, that if there is a change of ownership or
operation of any business, the new owner or operator shall immediately notify
the Tax Administrator thereof, and obtain a new license.
(1966 Code, § 21-210) (Ord. 601, § 1(part); Measure H Initiative, adopted 2018)
§ 5.03.131 COUNTY COMPUTATION OF AMOUNT TO BE PAID; INTEREST ON TAX DETERMINED;
PENALTY; NOTICE OF DETERMINATION.
   (A)   (1)   If the county is dissatisfied with the information filed by, or
the amount of tax paid to the county by any taxpayer, or if no application has
been filed or no payment or payments of the tax have been made to the county by
a taxpayer, the Tax Administrator may compute and determine the amount to be
paid, based upon any information available to the county. The amount of tax so
determined shall bear interest at the modified adjusted rate per month, or
fraction thereof, established pursuant to §
5.03.134, from the date the amount of the tax or any portion thereof became due
and payable until the date of payment.
      (2)   The Tax Administrator shall give to the taxpayer written notice of
the determination of deficiency.
   (B)   If any deficiency in the tax owed is found to have been occasioned by
negligence or intentional disregard of this article, an additional penalty of
10% of the amount of the deficiency shall be added, exclusive of other
penalties, plus interest as provided in division (A) of this section.
   (C)   If any deficiency is found to be occasioned by fraud or an intent to
evade this article, an additional penalty of 25% of the amount of the
determination shall be added, plus interest as provided in division (A) of this
section.
(1966 Code, § 21-211) (Ord. 601, § 1(part); Measure H Initiative, adopted 2018)
§ 5.03.132 LICENSE TAX; WHEN PAYABLE.
   All licenses issued pursuant to this article shall be paid in advance, and
shall be dated on the day of issuance, and shall, where an annual license is
issued, expire at 12:00 midnight on June 30 of the next ensuing year, except
for the first year, all businesses required by this code shall require a
license no later than July 1, 2019, which shall be valid through June 30, 2020.
For the 2019 calendar year only, licenses obtained after July 1, 2019 but prior
to August 1, 2019, shall not owe a late penalty.
(1966 Code, § 21-212) (Ord. 601, § 1(part); Measure H Initiative, adopted 2018)
§ 5.03.133 TERMS OF LICENSE.
   The license term shall be, except as otherwise provided in this article, for
a term of one year, commencing July 1, and ending on June 30 of the following
calendar year, and except as hereinafter otherwise provided, a full year's
license tax shall be paid, regardless of time of the year in which the license
shall be issued, and all license taxes shall be paid for in advance. For annual
licenses first issued in the second half of the fiscal year for new businesses,
one-half of the applicable license tax shall be paid.
(1966 Code, § 21-213) (Ord. 601, § 1(part); Measure H Initiative, adopted 2018)
§ 5.03.134 PENALTIES FOR DELINQUENCIES.
   (A)   In the event that the initial licenses required under this article for
existing businesses are not applied for within 60 days of July 1, 2019, a
penalty of 10% shall be added to the cost of the licenses; and if not applied
for within 90 days of July 1, 2019, a total penalty of 20% shall be added to
the cost of the licenses.
   (B)   Thereafter, in the event that the licenses required under this article
are not obtained, or the appropriate tax is not paid, on or before the starting
date of the business, a penalty of 10% shall be added to the cost of the
licenses; and if the license is not obtained, or the appropriate tax is not
paid within 30 days after the starting date of the business, a total penalty of
20% shall be added to the cost of the licenses.
   (C)   On or after July 1, 2019, if a license is not renewed or if the
appropriate tax is not paid within 30 days from the beginning of the fiscal
year, a 10% penalty shall be added to the cost of the license, and if not
renewed within 60 days from the beginning of the fiscal year, a total penalty
of 20% shall be added to the cost of the license.
   (D)   In addition to the penalties imposed, any person who fails to pay any
tax imposed by this article shall pay interest at the rate of one and one-half
percent per month or fraction thereof on the amount of the tax, exclusive of
penalties, from the first day of the month following the month for which the
tax was payable. No interest penalty shall accrue from July 1, 2019 through
September 1, 2019.
(1966 Code, § 21-214) (Ord. 601, § 1(part); Measure H Initiative, adopted 2018)
§ 5.03.135 LICENSE TAX; DEBT TO COUNTY.
      The amount of any license tax imposed under this article shall constitute
a debt to the county, and any person conducting business within the
unincorporated area of the county without having a license from the Tax
Administrator to do so shall be subject to an action in the name of the county,
in any court of competent jurisdiction, for the collection of the amount of the
license tax imposed by this article, including applicable penalties and
attorneys' fees and costs.
(1966 Code, § 21-215) (Ord. 601, § 1(part); Measure H Initiative, adopted 2018)
§ 5.03.136 CONVICTION; EFFECT ON DEBT.
   The conviction and punishment of any person having conducted business
without a license shall not excuse or exempt the person from the payment of any
license tax due or unpaid at the time of the conviction, and nothing herein
shall prevent criminal prosecution for any violation of any provisions of this
article.
(1966 Code, § 21-216) (Ord. 601, § 1(part); Measure H Initiative, adopted 2018)
§ 5.03.137 EXHIBITION OF LICENSE.
   Every person having a license under the provisions of this article for
conducting business at a fixed place shall keep the license posted for
exhibition while in force in some conspicuous part of the place of business.
Every person having such a license and not having a fixed place of business
shall carry the license with him or her at all times while carrying on the
business for which the same was granted. Every person having a license shall
procure and exhibit the same when applying for a renewal thereof, and whenever
requested to do so by any peace officer or by any person authorized to issue or
inspect licenses or collect license taxes.
(1966 Code, § 21-217) (Ord. 601, § 1(part); Measure H Initiative, adopted 2018)
§ 5.03.138 REFUNDS.
   No refunds of an overpayment of taxes imposed by this article shall be
allowed in whole or in part unless a claim for refund is filed with the Tax
Administrator within a period of three years from the last day of the calendar
month following the period for which the overpayment must be filed with the Tax
Administrator, on forms furnished by him or her and in the manner prescribed by
him or her. Upon the filing of the claim and when determining that an
overpayment has been made, the Tax Administrator shall authorize a refund by
the Auditor-Controller.
(1966 Code, § 21-218) (Ord. 601, § 1(part); Measure H Initiative, adopted 2018)
§ 5.03.139 WAIVER OF CLAIM FOR REFUND.
   The failure of a person to file a claim within the time prescribed in this
article constitutes a waiver of all demands against the state on account of the
overpayment.
(1966 Code, § 21-219) (Ord. 601, § 1(part); Measure H Initiative, adopted 2018)
§ 5.03.140 APPEAL.
   (A)   Any taxpayer aggrieved by any decision made by the Tax Administrator
may, within ten days of the date of the decision, file an appeal in writing
with the Clerk of the Board, accompanied by an appeal application fee which
shall be set from time to time by the Board. The appeal shall be on a form
provided by the Clerk of the Board and shall set forth with particularity the
specific grounds upon which the appeal is made. Any grounds not set forth in
the written appeal shall be deemed waived and the taxpayer shall thereafter be
precluded from raising them.
   (B)   The Clerk of the Board shall set the appeal for hearing before the
Board of Supervisors within 30 days after the date of filing of the appeal.
Upon hearing the appeal, the Board of Supervisors shall consider the record and
the evidence presented, de novo, and may sustain, modify, reject, or overrule,
in whole or in part, the decision appealed from. The decision of the Board of
Supervisors shall be expressed in the form of a written resolution concurred in
by a majority of all of the members of the Board.
(1966 Code, § 21-220) (Ord. 601, § 1(part); Measure H Initiative, adopted 2018)
SUBARTICLE III. VIOLATIONS; ENFORCEMENT
§ 5.03.155 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Business violating law. The issuance of a license under this article
shall not entitle the licensee to engage in any business which for any reason
is in violation of any law or ordinance.
   (B)   Separate violation. The conducting of business in the unincorporated
area of the county without first having procured a license from the county to
do so, or without complying with any and all regulations of the business
contained in this code, shall be a separate violation hereof for each and every
day that such business is so carried on.
   (C)   Penalty for violations. Any person violating any of the provisions of
this article or knowingly or intentionally misrepresenting to any officer or
employee of the county any material fact in procuring the license herein
provided for, is guilty of a misdemeanor. Enforcement and punishment for
violations of this code may proceed by all mechanisms allowed under this code
and/or state law.
   (D)   Remedies cumulative. Except as otherwise provided by law, the remedies
provided in this article are cumulative and not exclusive. Nothing in this
article is intended, or shall be deemed or construed, to limit or impair the
ability of the county, or any of its officers, agents, or employees, to take
any administrative or judicial action otherwise authorized by law, to recover
any taxes owed it.
(1966 Code, § 21-300) (Ord. 601, § 1(part); Measure H Initiative, adopted 2018)
§ 5.03.156 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the Tax Administrator to enforce all of the
provisions of this article and the Sheriff shall render such assistance as
required for enforcement.
   (B)   The Tax Administrator in the exercise of the duties imposed hereunder,
and acting through deputies or duly authorized assistants, may examine or cause
to be examined all places of business in the unincorporated area of the county
to ascertain compliance with the provisions of this article.
   (C)   The Tax Administrator and all deputies and any peace officers shall
have the power and authority to enter, free of charge, and at any reasonable
time during business hours, any place of business required to be licensed
herein, and demand an exhibition of its license. Any person having the license
theretofore issued, in his or her possession or under his or her control, shall
exhibit the same on demand.
   (D)   Any tax required to be paid by any person under the provisions of this
article shall be a debt owed by the person to the county. Any person owing
money to the county under the provisions of this article shall be liable to an
action brought in the name of the county for the recovery of such amount
including applicable penalties and attorneys' fees and costs.
(1966 Code, § 21-301) (Ord. 601, § 1(part); Measure H Initiative, adopted 2018)
ARTICLE V. CANNABIS BUSINESS ACTIVITIES TAX
§ 5.03.170 TITLE.
   This article shall be known as the "Cannabis Business Activities Tax
Ordinance." This article shall be applicable in the unincorporated area of the
county.
(Measure C Initiative, adopted 2018)
§ 5.03.171 AUTHORITY AND PURPOSE.
   (A)   This article is adopted pursuant to MAUCRSA, specifically Cal. Revenue
and Taxation Code § 34021.5, Cal. Gov’t Code § 53724, Cal. Elections Code §
9140, and upon approval by the electorate in accordance with Section 2 of
Article XIII C of the Constitution of the State of California and Cal. Gov’t
Code § 53723.
   (B)   This article is adopted to achieve the following purposes, among
others, and directs that the provisions herein be interpreted in order to
accomplish those purposes:
      (1)   To impose a tax upon cannabis businesses for the privilege of
engaging in cannabis business activities, whether medicinal or non-medicinal,
in the unincorporated area of the county;
      (2)   To specify the type of tax, the rate of tax to be levied, and the
method of collection; and
      (3)   To comply with all requirements of imposition of a general tax,
such tax to become operative only if submitted to the electorate and approved
by a majority vote of the voters voting in the election on the issue.
(Measure C Initiative, adopted 2018)
§ 5.03.172 INTENT.
   (A)   This article is enacted solely for the purpose of raising revenue for
general county purposes, and is not intended to be regulatory.
   (B)   Nothing in this article is intended, nor shall be construed, to exempt
cannabis businesses from compliance with all applicable provisions of this code
and all other applicable state and federal laws.
   (C)   The intent of this article is to levy a tax on all cannabis businesses
that operate in the unincorporated area of the county, regardless of whether
such business would have been legal at the time this article was enacted.
Nothing in this article shall be interpreted to authorize or permit any
cannabis business activity that would not otherwise be legal or permissible
under laws applicable to the activity at the time the activity is undertaken.
   (D)   The cannabis business activities tax is levied based upon gross
receipts and/or square footage of cannabis plant canopy, depending on the type
of cannabis business activity in which a cannabis business is engaged.
   (E)   The cannabis business activities tax is an excise tax, specifically it
is not a sales and use tax, a transaction and use tax, a tax upon income, a tax
upon real property, or any other type of tax.
(Measure C Initiative, adopted 2018)
§ 5.03.173 GENERAL TAX.
   The cannabis business activities tax is a general tax enacted solely for
general governmental purposes of the county and not for specific purposes. All
of the proceeds from the tax imposed by this article shall be placed in the
county's general fund and used for unrestricted general revenue purposes.
(Measure C Initiative, adopted 2018)
§ 5.03.174 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CANNABIS. All parts of the plant Cannabis Sativa Linnaeus, Cannabis Indica,
or Cannabis Ruderalis, whether growing or not; the seeds thereof; the resin,
whether crude or purified, extracted from any part of the plant; and every
compound, manufacture, salt, derivative, mixture, or preparation of the plant,
its seeds, or resin. CANNABIS also means the separated resin, whether crude or
purified, obtained from CANNABIS. CANNABIS does not include the mature stalks
of the plant, fiber produced from the stalks, oil or cake made from the seeds
of the plant, any other compound, manufacture, salt, derivative, mixture, or
preparation of the mature stalks (except the resin extracted therefrom), fiber,
oil, or cake, or the sterilized seed of the plant which is incapable of
germination. For the purpose of this division, CANNABIS does not mean
"industrial hemp" as defined by Cal. Health and Safety Code § 11018.5.
   CANNABIS BUSINESS. Any PERSON engaged in any CANNABIS BUSINESS ACTIVITY, as
those terms are defined in this article.
   CANNABIS BUSINESS ACTIVITIES TAX. The tax due under this article for
engaging in CANNABIS BUSINESS ACTIVITIES in the unincorporated area of the
COUNTY.
   CANNABIS BUSINESS ACTIVITY or CANNABIS BUSINESS OPERATION. Shall have the
meaning set forth in Cal. Business and Professions Code § 26001(k). CANNABIS
BUSINESS ACTIVITY does not include personal CULTIVATION as defined in
Chapter 11.15 of this code.
   CANNABIS COORDINATOR. The COUNTY official responsible for the issuance,
renewal, or reinstatement of CANNABIS permits, and the COUNTY official
authorized to initiate and/or take disciplinary action against a CANNABIS
permittee. In the event that a CANNABIS COORDINATOR has not been appointed by
the Board of Supervisors, or in the event of the unavailability of the CANNABIS
COORDINATOR, the CANNABIS COORDINATOR shall mean the Director of the Resource
Management Agency, or his/her designee.
   CANNABIS PRODUCTS. Shall have the same meaning set forth in Cal. Revenue and
Taxation Code § 34010(g).
   CANOPY, CANOPY AREA, PLANT CANOPY, PLANTS CANOPY AREA, or CULTIVATION AREA.
The cumulative total square footage of all areas occupied by any portion of a
CANNABIS plant, inclusive of all vertical planes, whether contiguous or non-
contiguous, including the space between plants within the CANOPY AREA, on any
one site as calculated by the CANNABIS COORDINATOR, or their designee, but does
not include aisles or other open areas outside the CANOPY AREA. The CANOPY
includes, but is not limited to, the area occupied by CANNABIS plant seeds,
seedlings, immature plants, mature plants, or any CANNABIS plant, or part
thereof, in any stage of processing, including harvesting, drying, curing,
trimming, and the like.
   COUNTY OF SAN BENITO or COUNTY. The COUNTY OF SAN BENITO, as a political
subdivision of the State of California or entity, and/or as related to the land
or jurisdiction to which this chapter applies, means the unincorporated area of
SAN BENITO COUNTY.
   CULTIVATION. Any activity involving the PROPAGATION, planting, growing,
harvesting, or PROCESSING, as defined in this article, of one or more CANNABIS
plants, or any part thereof, in any location, indoor or outdoor, including from
within a fully enclosed and secure building or structure.
   CULTIVATOR. A PERSON engaged in the CULTIVATION of CANNABIS.
   DELIVERY. Shall have the same meaning set forth in Cal. Business and
Professions Code § 26001(p).
   DISTRIBUTION. The procurement, sale, and TRANSPORT of CANNABIS and CANNABIS
PRODUCTS.
   DISTRIBUTOR. A PERSON engaged in the DISTRIBUTION of CANNABIS and/or
CANNABIS PRODUCTS between CANNABIS BUSINESSES.
   ENGAGED IN CANNABIS BUSINESS ACTIVITIES.
      (1)   The commencing, conducting, operating, managing, or carrying on of
a CANNABIS BUSINESS and the exercise of corporate or franchise powers, whether
done as owner, or by means of an officer, agent, manager, employee, or
otherwise, whether operating from a fixed location in the unincorporated area
of the COUNTY or coming into the unincorporated area of the COUNTY from an
outside location to engage in such activities. A PERSON shall be deemed ENGAGED
IN CANNABIS BUSINESS ACTIVITIES within the COUNTY if:
         (a)   Such PERSON or PERSON'S employee maintains a fixed place of
business within unincorporated area of the COUNTY for the benefit or partial
benefit of such PERSON;
         (b)   Such PERSON or PERSON'S employee owns or leases real property
within the unincorporated area of COUNTY for business purposes;
         (c)   Such PERSON or PERSON'S employee regularly maintains a stock of
tangible personal property in the unincorporated area of COUNTY for sale in the
ordinary course of business;
         (d)   Such PERSON or PERSON'S employee regularly conducts solicitation
of business within the unincorporated area of COUNTY;
         (e)   Such PERSON or PERSON'S employee performs work or renders
services in the unincorporated area of COUNTY; or
         (f)   Such PERSON or PERSON'S employee utilizes the streets within the
unincorporated area of COUNTY in connection with the operation of motor
vehicles for business purposes.
      (2)   The foregoing specified activities shall not be a limitation on the
meaning of ENGAGED IN CANNABIS BUSINESS ACTIVITIES.
   GROSS RECEIPTS. Shall have the same meaning as set forth in Cal. Revenue and
Taxation Code § 6012.
   MANUFACTURE. The production, preparation, PROPAGATION, or compounding of
CANNABIS or CANNABIS PRODUCTS, either directly or indirectly, or by extraction
methods, or independently by means of chemical synthesis, or by a combination
of extraction and chemical synthesis.
   MANUFACTURER. A PERSON engaged in the MANUFACTURE of CANNABIS and/or
CANNABIS PRODUCTS.
   MAUCRSA. The Medicinal and Adult-Use Cannabis Regulation and Safety Act,
Cal. Business and Professions Code Section 26000 et seq.
   MICROBUSINESS. Shall have the meaning set forth in the Cal. Business and
Professions Code § 26070(a)(3)(A).
   NON-MEDICINAL CANNABIS.  CANNABIS used for adult-use, recreational, or non-
medicinal purposes.
   NURSERY. A CANNABIS BUSINESS that engages only in the production of CANNABIS
clones, immature plants, seeds, and other agricultural products used
specifically for the planting, PROPAGATION, and CULTIVATION of CANNABIS.
   PERSON. An individual, firm, partnership, joint venture, association,
corporation, cooperative, company, collective, organization, business, and/or
entity.
   PROCESS or PROCESSING. All CANNABIS BUSINESS ACTIVITIES associated with
drying, curing, grading, trimming, storing, packaging, and labeling of raw
CANNABIS, or any part thereof, for TRANSPORT.
   PROPAGATE or PROPAGATION. To cultivate immature plants from CANNABIS plant
cuttings or seeds.
   RETAIL SALE, SELL, and TO SELL. Includes any transaction whereby, for any
consideration, title to CANNABIS or CANNABIS PRODUCTS is transferred from one
PERSON to another, and includes the DELIVERY of CANNABIS or CANNABIS PRODUCTS
pursuant to an order placed for the purchase of the same and soliciting or
receiving an order for the same, but does not include the return of CANNABIS or
CANNABIS PRODUCTS by a CANNABIS permittee to the CANNABIS permittee from whom
the CANNABIS or CANNABIS PRODUCT was purchased.
   RETAILER. A PERSON engaged in the RETAIL of CANNABIS and/or CANNABIS
PRODUCTS.
   TESTING LABORATORY or LABORATORY. A LABORATORY, facility, or entity in the
state that offers or performs tests of CANNABIS or CANNABIS PRODUCTS, and that
is accredited by an accrediting body that is independent from all other PERSONS
involved in commercial CANNABIS activity in the state.
   TRANSPORT or TRANSPORTATION. The transfer of CANNABIS from the licensed
CANNABIS BUSINESS site of one MAUCRSA licensee to the licensed CANNABIS
BUSINESS site of another MAUCRSA licensee for the purposes of conducting
CANNABIS BUSINESS ACTIVITIES as authorized pursuant to Cal. Business and
Professions Code § 26000 et seq. CANNABIS may only be transported inside of a
commercial vehicle or trailer and may not be visible or identifiable from
outside of the commercial vehicle or trailer. TRANSPORTATION by means of
aircraft, watercraft, drones, rail, human powered vehicles, and unmanned
vehicles is prohibited. The COUNTY shall not prevent the carriage of CANNABIS
or CANNABIS PRODUCTS on public roads by a MAUCRSA licensee acting in compliance
with state law to TRANSPORT CANNABIS or CANNABIS PRODUCTS from the licensed
CANNABIS BUSINESS site of one MAUCRSA licensee to the licensed CANNABIS
BUSINESS site of another MAUCRSA licensee.
   TRANSPORTER. A PERSON engaged in the TRANSPORTATION of CANNABIS and/or
CANNABIS PRODUCTS between CANNABIS BUSINESSES.
   TREASURER-TAX COLLECTOR. The TREASURER-TAX COLLECTOR of the COUNTY, his or
her deputies, unless another COUNTY officer or employee is assigned by
resolution of the Board of Supervisors, to perform all or a portion of the
duties as listed herein, in which case, the TREASURER-TAX COLLECTOR shall be
interpreted as the PERSON defined in the resolution.
(Measure C Initiative, adopted 2018)
§ 5.03.175 TAX IMPOSED.
   (A)   There is established and imposed a cannabis business activities tax at
the rates set forth in this article.
   (B)   Each person engaged in any cannabis business activity in the
unincorporated area of the county, regardless if the cannabis business has been
issued a permit to operate lawfully in the county or is operating unlawfully,
shall pay an annual cannabis business activities tax. Said tax shall be imposed
upon any and all cannabis business activities, regardless of whether the
activity is undertaken individually, collectively, or cooperatively, and
regardless of whether the activity is for compensation or gratuitous.
   (C)   Tax on cultivation type cannabis business activities.
      (1)   Every person who is engaged in cultivation type cannabis business
activities in the unincorporated area of the county shall pay an annual
cannabis business activities tax, which shall be determined on a square footage
basis, specifically, the "canopy" as that term is defined herein.
      (2)   The minimum and maximum rates of the cannabis business activities
tax for cultivation type cannabis business activities shall be as follows:
Cannabis Business Activity Type: Cultivation Minimum Maximum
Cannabis Business Activity Type: Cultivation Minimum Maximum
Nursery                                      $3      $17
Outdoor (specialty cottage)                  $3      $17
Outdoor (specialty)                          $3      $17
Outdoor (small)                              $3      $17
Outdoor (medium)                             $3      $17
Outdoor (large)                              $3      $17
Indoor (specialty cottage)                   $3      $17
Indoor (specialty)                           $3      $17
Indoor (small)                               $3      $17
Indoor (medium)                              $3      $17
Indoor (large)                               $3      $17
Mixed-light (specialty cottage)              $3      $17
Mixed-light (specialty)                      $3      $17
Mixed-light (small)                          $3      $17
Mixed-light (medium)                         $3      $17
Mixed-light (large)                          $3      $17
 
      (3)   Beginning on July 1, 2019, and on July 1 of each succeeding fiscal
year thereafter, the cannabis business activities tax imposed by this article
shall increase by the most recent change in the annual average of the Consumer
Price Index ("CPI") for all urban consumers in the San Francisco-Oakland-San-
Jose areas as published by the United States Government Bureau of Labor
Statistics. However, no CPI adjustment resulting in a decrease of any tax
imposed by this article shall be made.
      (4)   The Board of Supervisors may, in its discretion, at any time by
resolution or ordinance, set the initial rate and/or adjust the tax rate for
all persons engaged in any cannabis business activity in the unincorporated
area of the county, or establish differing tax rates for different categories
of cannabis businesses, including medicinal or non-medicinal cannabis
businesses, subject to the minimum and maximum rates established in divisions
(C)(2) and (C)(3) above.
   (D)   Tax on distribution type cannabis business activities.
      (1)   Every person who is engaged in distribution type cannabis business
activities in the unincorporated area of the county shall pay an annual
cannabis business activities tax, which shall be determined on a gross receipts
per fiscal year basis.
      (2)   The minimum and maximum rates of the cannabis business activities
tax for distribution type cannabis business activities shall be as follows:
 
Cannabis Business Activity Type: Distribution Minimum Maximum
Distributor                                   2%      4%
Distributor (transportation only)             0.5%    4%
 
      (3)   The Board of Supervisors may, in its discretion, at any time by
resolution or ordinance, set the initial rate and/or adjust the tax rate for
all persons engaged in any cannabis business activity in the unincorporated
area of the county, or establish differing tax rates for different categories
of cannabis businesses, including medicinal or non-medicinal cannabis
businesses, subject to the minimum and maximum rates established in division
(D)(2) above.
   (E)   Tax on manufacturing type cannabis business activities.
      (1)   Every person who is engaged in manufacturing type cannabis business
activities in the unincorporated area of the county shall pay an annual
cannabis business activities tax, which shall be determined on a gross receipts
per fiscal year basis.
      (2)   The minimum and maximum rates of the cannabis business activities
tax for manufacturing type cannabis business activities shall be as follows:
 
Cannabis Business Activity Type: Manufacturing Minimum Maximum
Manufacturing (Level 1)                        2.5%    4%
Manufacturing (Level 2)                        2.5%    4%
 
      (3)   The Board of Supervisors may, in its discretion, at any time by
resolution or ordinance, set the initial rate and/or adjust the tax rate for
all persons engaged in any cannabis business activity in the unincorporated
area of the county, or establish differing tax rates for different categories
of cannabis businesses, including medicinal or non-medicinal cannabis
businesses, subject to the minimum and maximum rates established in division
(E)(2) above.
   (F)   Tax on microbusiness type cannabis business activities.
      (1)   Every person who is engaged in microbusiness type cannabis business
activities in the unincorporated area of the county shall pay an annual
cannabis business activities tax, which shall be determined on a gross receipts
per fiscal year basis.
      (2)   The minimum and maximum rates of the cannabis business activities
tax for microbusiness type cannabis business activities shall be as follows:
 
Cannabis Business Activity Type: Microbusiness Minimum Maximum
Microbusiness (retailer)                       4%      5%
Microbusiness (non- retailer)                  2.5%    3.5%
 
      (3)   The Board of Supervisors may, in its discretion, at any time by
resolution or ordinance, set the initial rate and/or adjust the tax rate for
all persons engaged in any cannabis business activity in the unincorporated
area of the county, or establish differing tax rates for different categories
of cannabis businesses, including medicinal or non-medicinal cannabis
businesses, subject to the minimum and maximum rates established in division
(F)(2) above.
   (G)   Tax on retailer type cannabis business activities.
      (1)   Every person who is engaged in retailer type cannabis business
activities in the unincorporated area of the county shall pay an annual
cannabis business activities tax, which shall be determined on a gross receipts
per fiscal year basis.
      (2)   The minimum and maximum rates of the cannabis business activities
tax for retailer type cannabis business activities shall be as follows:
 
Cannabis Business Activity Type: Retailer Minimum Maximum
Retailer (delivery only)                  0.5%    3%
Retailer                                  4%      8%
 
      (3)   The Board of Supervisors may, in its discretion, at any time by
resolution or ordinance, set the initial rate and/or adjust the tax rate for
all persons engaged in any cannabis business activity in the unincorporated
area of the county, or establish differing tax rates for different categories
of cannabis businesses, including medicinal or non-medicinal cannabis
businesses, subject to the minimum and maximum rates established in division
(G)(2) above.
   (H)   Tax on testing laboratory type cannabis business activities.
      (1)   Every person who is engaged in testing laboratory type cannabis
business activities in the unincorporated area of the county shall pay an
annual cannabis business activities tax, which shall be determined on a gross
receipts per fiscal year basis.
      (2)   The minimum and maximum rates of the cannabis business activities
tax for testing laboratory type cannabis business activities shall be as
follows:
 
Cannabis Business Activity Type: Testing Laboratory Minimum Maximum
Testing laboratory                                  0.5%    4%
 
      (3)   The Board of Supervisors may, in its discretion, at any time by
resolution or ordinance, set the initial rate and/or adjust the tax rate for
all persons engaged in any cannabis business activity in the unincorporated
area of the county, or establish differing tax rates for different categories
of cannabis businesses, including medicinal or non-medicinal cannabis
businesses, subject to the minimum and maximum rates established in division
(H)(2) above.
   (I)   Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Board of Supervisors may, in its
discretion, at any time by ordinance, exempt or except certain categories of
cannabis business activities from the cannabis business activities tax.
(Measure C Initiative, adopted 2018)
§ 5.03.176 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   The provisions of this article shall not apply to personal cannabis
cultivation, as defined by Cal. Health and Safety Code § 11362.2, as may be
amended, and as set forth in
Chapter 11.15 of this code.
   (B)   The provisions of this article shall not apply to personal use of
cannabis that is expressly exempted from state licensing requirements, and for
which the individual receives no compensation whatsoever related to that
personal use, including, personal non-medicinal use, as defined by Cal. Health
and Safety Code § 11362.1, as may be amended, or personal medicinal use, as
defined by Cal. Health and Safety Code § 11362.7 et seq., as maybe amended.
   (C)   The Board of Supervisors temporarily exempts the cannabis excise tax
for cannabis business cultivation through December 31, 2026. The cannabis
cultivation business will be subject to fees associated with the actual cost of
providing related products or services and enforcing applicable regulations as
established in §
5.01.000 San Benito County Master Fee Schedule.
(Measure C Initiative, adopted 2018; Ord. 1077, § 1, 2025)
§ 5.03.177 TAX, PENALTIES, INTEREST, AND FEES AS A DEBT.
   (A)   The amount of any tax imposed by this article shall be deemed a debt
owed to the county.
   (B)   Any penalties, interest, and/or fees required to be paid under the
provisions of this article shall also be deemed a debt owed to the county.
   (C)   Any person owing any tax, penalties, interest, and/or fees shall be
liable in an action brought in the name of the county for the recovery of such
debt. The provisions of this section shall not be deemed a limitation upon the
right of the county to bring any other action including criminal, civil, and
equitable actions, based upon the failure to pay the tax imposed by this
article or the failure to comply with any of the provisions hereof.
(Measure C Initiative, adopted 2018)
§ 5.03.178 ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the Treasurer-Tax Collector to collect the
taxes, penalties, fees, and perform the duties required by this article.
   (B)   For purposes of administration and enforcement of this article
generally, the Treasurer-Tax Collector may from time to time promulgate such
administrative rules and procedures consistent with the purpose, intent, and
express terms of this article as they deem necessary to implement or clarify
such provisions or aid in enforcement.
   (C)   The Treasurer-Tax Collector may take such administrative actions as
needed to administer the tax, including, but not limited to:
      (1)   Provide to all cannabis business activities taxpayers forms for the
reporting of the tax;
      (2)   Provide information to any taxpayer concerning the provisions of
this article;
      (3)   Receive and record all taxes remitted to the county as provided in
this article;
      (4)   Maintain records of taxpayer reports and taxes collected pursuant
to this article;
      (5)   Assess penalties and interest to taxpayers pursuant to this
article; or waive such penalties and interest when there is demonstrated
evidence of extenuating circumstances that were clearly beyond the control of
the taxpayer; and
      (6)   Determine amounts owed and enforce collection pursuant to this
article.
(Measure C Initiative, adopted 2018)
§ 5.03.179 REGISTRATION; CHANGE OF OWNERSHIP.
   (A)   In order that the county will have an accurate record of persons
liable for paying the cannabis business activities tax hereunder, prior to
commencing cannabis business activities, each person engaged in any cannabis
business activity shall register such cannabis business with the Treasurer-Tax
Collector, submitting any information deemed necessary by the Treasurer-Tax
Collector, including, but not limited to, the type(s) of cannabis business
activities in which said person is engaged.
   (B)   In the event that there is a change in ownership of any cannabis
business:
      (1)   The new owner is required to submit an updated registration form to
the Treasurer-Tax Collector;
      (2)   The new owner is subject to an audit by the Treasurer-Tax Collector
or his or her designee; and
      (3)   Unless otherwise provided by law, it is the joint and several
liability of both the seller and buyer to remit any tax due up until the date
of sale; otherwise, a certificate of delinquent cannabis business activities
tax lien may be filed against both the seller and/or buyer in an amount
determined by the Treasurer-Tax Collector.
(Measure C Initiative, adopted 2018)
§ 5.03.180 REPORTING AND REMITTANCE OF TAX.
   (A)   The cannabis business activities tax imposed by this article shall be
imposed on a fiscal year basis and shall be due and payable in quarterly
installments as follows.
      (1)   If the cannabis business activities tax is owed on cultivation type
cannabis business activities, the tax due shall be based on the square footage
of the cannabis business' canopy as determined by the Cannabis Coordinator and
the quarterly rate shall be 25% of the applicable annual rate. If the
cultivation begins in the middle of a fiscal year, the Treasurer-Tax Collector
shall prorate, in monthly increments, the amount due for the fiscal year. The
tax statement may include a request for adjustment of the tax due to square
footage authorized by the Cannabis Coordinator but not utilized for
cultivation, and/or crop loss, along with evidence substantiating the square
footage utilized and/or crop loss. The decision to prorate or adjust the tax
will be made at the sole discretion of the county. A fee may be adopted by the
Board of Supervisors and collected by the Treasurer Tax-Collector to pay for
the cost of investigating, verifying, and opining on such request for
adjustment of the tax.
      (2)   If the cannabis business activities tax is owed on cannabis
business activities other than cultivation type cannabis business activities,
the tax due shall be based on the gross receipts for the quarter.
   (B)   The tax for each fiscal quarter shall be due and payable on that same
date as the statement for the fiscal quarter is due. The tax due shall be no
less than the quarterly installment due, but the taxpayer may at any time pay
the entire amount due for the given fiscal year.
   (C)   Each person owing a cannabis business activities tax shall, on or
before the last day of the month following the close of each fiscal year
quarter:
      (1)   File with the Treasurer-Tax Collector a statement of the tax owed
for that fiscal quarter and the basis for calculating that tax. The Treasurer-
Tax Collector may require that the statement be submitted on a form prescribed
by the Treasurer-Tax Collector; and
      (2)   Remit to the Treasurer-Tax Collector the tax due.
   (D)   The Treasurer-Tax Collector may, in his/her discretion, establish
shorter report and payment periods for any taxpayer as the Treasurer-Tax
Collector deems necessary to ensure collection of the cannabis business
activities tax.
   (E)   The Treasurer-Tax Collector may, in his/her discretion as part of
administering the cannabis business activities tax, modify the form of payment
and take such other administrative actions as needed to facilitate collection
of the tax.
   (F)   Upon cessation of a cannabis business for any reason, tax statements
and payments for all outstanding taxes owed to the county shall be immediately
due to the county. Tax statements and remittances will be deemed timely made if
actually received by the Treasurer-Tax Collector within 30 calendar days
following cessation of the cannabis business activity; otherwise the taxes
shall be deemed delinquent and subject to penalties hereunder.
   (G)   Any person required to remit taxes in excess of $100,000 in any given
fiscal year shall be required to make remittances on a monthly basis in the
succeeding fiscal year. Said remittances shall be due on or before the last day
of the month following the last day of the preceding month.
   (H)   The correctness of any tax return filed pursuant to this article shall
be subject to audit and verification by the Treasurer-Tax Collector, or
designee, who is authorized and empowered to inspect and audit the books and
records of any cannabis business. No cannabis business shall refuse or fail to
allow the Treasurer-Tax Collector, or designee, to inspect and audit such books
and records, or shall refuse or fail to provide such additional information as
requested by the Treasurer-Tax Collector, or designee.
   (I)   For the purposes of this section, "on or before" shall be interpreted
as:
      (1)   Hand delivery; or
      (2)   Postal delivery of a properly stamped and addressed envelope
containing the return and full amount of the tax to the United States Postal
Service. Delivery to the Postal Service must be verified by cancellation by the
Postal Service showing a postmark date no later than midnight on the date the
tax is due. If the due date of the tax falls on a United States Post Office
closure date, the tax due date shall be the next business day (excluding
federal holidays). Private postal meter strips and dates shall not be
considered evidence of delivery to the United States Postal Service.
   (J)   Whenever any payment, statement, report, request, or other
communication is due, it must be received by the Treasurer-Tax Collector on or
before the final due date. In accordance with division (I) of this section, a
postmark may be accepted as timely remittance. If the due date falls on
Saturday, Sunday, or a holiday, the due date shall be the next regular business
day on which the county is open to the public.
(Measure C Initiative, adopted 2018) (Ord. 1040, § 1, 2022)
§ 5.03.181 DEFICIENCY.
   (A)   If the Treasurer-Tax Collector is not satisfied that any return filed
as required under the provisions of this article is correct, or that the amount
of tax is correctly computed, he/she may compute and determine the amount to be
paid and make a deficiency determination upon the basis of the facts contained
in the statement or upon the basis of any information in his/her possession or
that may come into his/her possession within three calendar years of the date
the tax was originally due and payable.
   (B)   One or more deficiency determinations of the amount of tax due for a
period or periods may be made.
   (C)   When a person discontinues engaging in a business, a deficiency
determination may be made at any time within three calendar years thereafter as
to any liability arising from engaging in such business whether or not a
deficiency determination is/was issued prior to the date the tax would
otherwise be due, or issued after the discontinuation of the business.
   (D)   Whenever a deficiency determination is made, a notice shall be given
to the person concerned in accordance with §
5.03.195.
(Measure C Initiative, adopted 2018)
§ 5.03.182 DELINQUENCY; NOTICE NOT REQUIRED BY COUNTY.
   (A)   Unless otherwise specifically provided under other provisions of this
article, the taxes required to be paid pursuant to this article shall be deemed
delinquent if not received by the Treasurer-Tax Collector on or before the due
date as specified in §
5.03.180.
   (B)   The Treasurer-Tax Collector is not required to send a delinquency or
other notice or bill to any person subject to the provisions of this article.
Failure to send such notice or bill shall not affect the validity of any tax or
penalty due under the provisions of this article.
(Measure C Initiative, adopted 2018)
§ 5.03.183 PENALTIES, FEES, AND INTEREST.
   (A)   The cannabis business activities tax shall be that amount due and
payable from the first day in which the person was engaged in cannabis business
activities in the unincorporated area of the county, together with all
applicable penalties, fees, and interest calculated in accordance with this
section.
   (B)   Any person who fails or refuses to pay any cannabis business
activities tax required to be paid pursuant to this article on or before the
due date shall pay penalties, fees, and interest as follows.
      (1)   Initial delinquency. A penalty equal to 12.5% of the amount of the
tax, in addition to the amount of the tax.
      (2)   Continuing delinquency. If the tax remains unpaid for a period
exceeding 30 calendar days beyond the date on which the remittance first became
delinquent, an additional penalty equal to 12.5% of the amount of the tax,
shall be imposed.
      (3)   Bank fees. Whenever a check or electronic payment is submitted in
payment of a cannabis business activities tax and the payment is subsequently
returned unpaid by the bank for any reason, the taxpayer will be liable for the
tax amount due plus any bank fees, penalties, and interest as provided for in
this section, and any other amount allowed under state law.
      (4)   Interest. In addition to the penalties and/or fees amounts imposed,
interest shall be applied at the rate of 1.5% per month on the first day of the
month for the full month, and will continue to accrue monthly on the tax and
penalty until the balance is paid in full.
   (C)   In addition to the foregoing amounts, if the county determines that
any remittance of the cannabis business activities tax due under this article
is due to fraud or fraudulent, a penalty of 25% of the amount of the tax that
should have been paid shall be added thereto in addition to penalties and
interest otherwise stated in this article, and any other penalties allowed by
law.
(Measure C Initiative, adopted 2018)
§ 5.03.184 WAIVER OF PENALTIES.
   (A)   The Treasurer-Tax Collector may waive the penalties imposed upon any
person under §
5.03.183, if:
      (1)   The person engaged in cannabis business activities requests a
waiver of penalties by submitting a request for waiver to the Treasurer-Tax
Collector within ten calendar days after issuance of a notice of assessment;
      (2)   The person provides evidence satisfactory to the Treasurer-Tax
Collector that failure to pay timely was due to circumstances beyond the
control of the person and occurred notwithstanding the exercise of ordinary
care and the absence of willful neglect, and the person paid the delinquent
cannabis business activities tax and accrued interest owed the prior to
applying to the Treasurer-Tax Collector for a waiver;
      (3)   Upon receipt of satisfactory evidence, the Treasurer-Tax Collector
may waive penalties in an amount not to exceed $5,000; and
      (4)   If the request for waiver exceeds $5,000, such request shall be
approved only by the Board of Supervisors.
   (B)   The amount determined to be owed to the county shall be due
immediately. Remittances will be deemed timely made if actually received by the
Treasurer-Tax Collector within ten calendar days; otherwise the taxes shall be
deemed delinquent and subject to penalties under §
5.03.183.
   (C)   The waiver provisions specified in this section shall not apply to any
interest accrued on the delinquent tax.
   (D)   A waiver under this section may only be granted once during any 24
month period.
(Measure C Initiative, adopted 2018)
§ 5.03.185 REFUNDS; CREDITS.
   (A)   No refund shall be made of any tax collected pursuant to this article,
except as provided in section.
   (B)   No refund of any tax collected pursuant to this article shall be made
because of cessation of the cannabis business activity, discontinuation,
dissolution, or other termination of the cannabis business.
   (C)   Whenever the amount of any tax or penalty under this article has been
overpaid, paid more than once, or has been erroneously or illegally collected
or received by the county under this article, it may be refunded to the
claimant who paid the tax; provided a written claim, stating under penalty of
perjury under the laws of the State of California the specific grounds upon
which the claim is founded, is filed with the Treasurer-Tax Collector within
one calendar year of the date of payment. The claim shall be on forms furnished
by the Treasurer-Tax Collector.
   (D)   Any person entitled to a refund of cannabis business activities taxes
paid hereunder may elect, in writing, to have such refund applied as a credit
against such person's taxes which will become due for the next fiscal year
quarter.
   (E)   In the event that the cannabis business activities tax was erroneously
paid and the error is attributable to the county, the county shall refund the
amount of tax paid up to one calendar year from when the error was identified,
provided, in no case shall a claim for payment be made more than three years
from the date of the actual payment of the tax.
   (F)   The Treasurer-Tax Collector, his or her designee, or any other county
officer charged with the administration of this article, shall have the right
to examine and audit all the books and business records of the claimant in
order to determine the eligibility of the claimant to the claimed refund. No
claim for refund shall be allowed if the claimant refuses to allow such
examination of claimant's books and business records after request by the
Treasurer-Tax Collector, his or her designee, or any other county officer
charged with the administration of this article, to do so.
   (G)   The Treasurer-Tax Collector may collect a fee adopted by the Board of
Supervisors to pay for the cost of examination and audit should the books and
records be provided in a form insufficient to allow the Treasurer-Tax Collector
to make a determination on the claim for the refund.
   (H)   No refund of any tax collected pursuant to this article shall be made
because of the discontinuation, dissolution, or other termination of a cannabis
business.
(Measure C Initiative, adopted 2018)
§ 5.03.186 NOTICE OF ASSESSMENT.
   (A)   Under any of the following circumstances, the Treasurer-Tax Collector
may issue a notice of assessment of the amount of tax owed by a person under
this article at any time:
      (1)   If the person has not filed a complete statement required under the
provisions of this article;
      (2)   If the person has not paid the tax due under the provisions of this
article; or
      (3)   If the person has not, after demand by the Treasurer-Tax Collector,
filed a corrected statement, or furnished to the Treasurer-Tax Collector
adequate substantiation of the information contained in a statement already
filed, or paid any additional amount of tax due under the provisions of this
article.
   (B)   The notice of assessment shall be served in accordance with §
5.03.195.
   (C)   The notice of assessment shall separately set forth the amount of any
tax due. The amount due shall include the amount of any penalties or interest
accrued on each amount through the date of the notice of assessment.
   (D)   If the amount of tax due is unknown, the Treasurer-Tax Collector may
estimate the amount of tax due based on consideration of all information within
their knowledge concerning the business and activities of the person assessed.
For purposes of estimating the amount of tax due, there shall be a rebuttable
presumption that the minimum amount of tax due is the same as the maximum
amount of tax due during any quarter during the previous fiscal year.
(Measure C Initiative, adopted 2018)
§ 5.03.187 ASSESSMENT HEARING.
   (A)   Within ten calendar days after the date of service of the notice of
assessment, the person may apply in writing to the Treasurer-Tax Collector for
a hearing on the assessment.
   (B)   If application for a hearing is not made within the time herein
prescribed, the tax, penalties, fees, and/or interest determined by the
Treasurer-Tax Collector shall become final and conclusive, and shall be
immediately due and payable.
   (C)   If such application is made, the Treasurer-Tax Collector shall, upon
receipt of such application, cause the matter to be set for hearing. The
hearing shall be held not fewer than ten calendar days, and not more than 45
calendar days from receipt of the written request for hearing, unless a later
date is agreed to by the Treasurer-Tax Collector and the person requesting the
hearing.
   (D)   Notice of the hearing shall be given by the Treasurer-Tax Collector to
the person requesting such hearing not fewer than five business days prior to
such hearing. The notice shall set the date, time, and place for hearing and
shall order the person requesting the hearing to show cause why such amount
specified in the notice of assessment should not be confirmed.
   (E)   The person requesting the hearing may appear and offer evidence at the
hearing why the assessment as determined by the Treasurer-Tax Collector should
not be confirmed and fixed as the tax, penalties, fees, and/or interest due.
   (F)   After such hearing the Treasurer-Tax Collector shall determine the
proper tax to be charged and shall issue, in accordance with §
5.03.195, a notice of determination of tax due to the person requesting the
hearing stating the Treasurer-Tax Collector's determination and the amount of
tax, penalties, fees, and interest.
   (G)   The amount determined to be due shall be payable after 15 calendar
days of written notice unless it is appealed to the Board of Supervisors.
(Measure C Initiative, adopted 2018)
§ 5.03.188 APPEAL FROM ASSESSMENT HEARING.
   Any person aggrieved by any decision of the Treasurer-Tax Collector with
respect to the amount of tax, interest, penalties, and fees, if any, due under
this article may appeal to the Board of Supervisors by filing a notice of
appeal with the Clerk of the Board within 15 days of service of the notice of
determination of tax due. The Clerk of the Board, or his or her designee, shall
fix a time and place for hearing such appeal, and the Clerk of the Board, or
his or her designee, shall give notice in writing to such person at the last
known address. The decision of the Board of Supervisors shall be final and
conclusive and shall be served upon the appellant in accordance with §
5.03.195. Any amount found to be owed to the county shall be immediately due
and payable upon the service of the decision.
(Measure C Initiative, adopted 2018)
§ 5.03.189 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   In addition to any other remedies available under federal, state, or
local law, if any amount required to be paid to the county under this article
is not paid when due, the Treasurer-Tax Collector may, within three calendar
years after the amount is due, record a certificate of lien specifying the
amount of taxes, fees, interest, and penalties due, and the name and address of
the individual or business as it appears on the records of Treasurer-Tax
Collector. The lien shall also specify that the Treasurer-Tax Collector has
complied with all provisions of this article in the determination of the amount
required to be paid. From the time of the filing for record, the amount
required to be paid, together with penalties, fees, and interest thereon,
constitutes a lien upon all real property in the county owned by the individual
or business, or subsequently acquired by the individual or business before the
lien expires. The lien has the force, effect, and priority of a judgment lien
and shall continue for ten calendar years from filing of the certificate unless
sooner released or otherwise discharged.
   (B)   At any time within three calendar years after any individual or
business is delinquent in the payment of any amount required to be paid under
this article or within three calendar years after the last recording of a
certificate of lien under division (B) of this section, the Treasurer-Tax
Collector may issue a warrant for the enforcement of any liens and for the
collection of any amount required to be paid to the county under this article.
The warrant shall be directed to the Sheriff and shall have the same effect as
a writ of execution. The warrant shall be levied and sale made pursuant to it
in the same manner and with the same effect as a levy of and a sale pursuant to
a writ of execution. The Treasurer-Tax Collector may pay or advance to the
Sheriff, the same fees, commissions, and expenses for service provided by law
for similar services pursuant to a writ of execution.
   (C)   At any time within three calendar years after recording a lien against
any individual or business, if the lien is not discharged and released in full,
the Treasurer-Tax Collector may forthwith seize any asset or property, real or
personal (including bank account), of the operator and sell at public auction
the asset or property, or a sufficient part of it to pay the amount due
together with any penalties and interest imposed for the delinquency and any
cost incurred on account of the seizure and sale. Assets or property of the
business subject to seizure and sale subject to this article shall not include
any assets or property which are exempt from execution under the provisions of
the Code of Civil Procedure.
   (D)   Suspension or revocation of a cannabis permit. Revocation shall be
subject to the procedures set forth in
Chapter 7.02 of this code, as may be enacted in the future. The following shall
constitute grounds for suspending or revoking a cannabis permit, in addition to
any additional grounds identified under
Chapter 7.02:
      (1)   Failure to pay any cannabis business tax due under this article
within 30 calendar days of the due date;
      (2)   Failure to cooperate with the Treasurer-Tax Collector, or designee,
as determined by the Treasurer-Tax Collector, or designee, during an audit
pursuant to this article;
      (3)   Underpaying any business tax due under this article in any period
by 50% or more; or
      (4)   If the county determines that the nonpayment of any cannabis
business activities tax due under this article is due to fraud.
(Measure C Initiative, adopted 2018)
§ 5.03.190 APPORTIONMENT.
   If a person subject to the cannabis business activities tax is operating
both within and outside the unincorporated county, it is the intent of the
county to apply the cannabis business activities tax so that the measure of the
tax fairly reflects the proportion of the taxed activity actually carried on in
the unincorporated area of the county. To the extent federal or state law
requires that any tax due from any taxpayer be apportioned, the taxpayer may
indicate said apportionment on their tax return. The Treasurer-Tax Collector
may promulgate administrative procedures for apportionment in accordance with
state law.
(Measure C Initiative, adopted 2018)
§ 5.03.191 CONSTITUTIONALITY AND LEGALITY.
   This tax is intended to be applied in a manner consistent with the United
States and California Constitutions and state law. None of the tax provided for
by this article shall be applied in a manner that causes an undue burden upon
interstate commerce, a violation of the equal protection and due process
clauses of the Constitutions of the United States or the State of California,
or a violation of any other provision of the California Constitution or state
law.
(Measure C Initiative, adopted 2018)
§ 5.03.192 RECORDKEEPING; AUDIT.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of every person liable for the collection and
payment to the county of any tax imposed by this article to keep and preserve,
for a period of at least seven calendar years, all records as may be necessary
to determine the amount of such tax as they may have been liable for the
collection of and payment to the county, which records the Treasurer-Tax
Collector or their designee shall have the right to inspect at all reasonable
times, including, but not limited to, records containing information related to
the amount of cannabis and/or cannabis products sold and/or transferred. Said
records shall be full, true, and accurate.
   (B)   The Treasurer-Tax Collector shall have the power to audit and examine
all books and records of persons engaged in cannabis business activities,
including both state and federal income tax returns, state sales tax returns,
or other evidence documenting the square footage of canopy and/or gross
receipts of persons engaged in cannabis business, and, where necessary, all
equipment of any person engaged in cannabis business activities in the county,
for the purpose of ascertaining the amount of cannabis business activities tax,
if any, required to be paid by the provisions of this article, and for the
purpose of verifying any statements or any item thereof when filed by any
person pursuant to this article.
   (C)   Upon demand by the Treasurer-Tax Collector, each person liable for the
collection and payment to the county of any tax imposed by this article shall
make the records, together with any track and trace reports, shipping
documents, or sales invoices pertaining to such cannabis and/or cannabis
products available for inspection by the Treasurer-Tax Collector at all
reasonable times.
   (D)   If any person refuses to make available for audit, examination, or
verification such books, records, or equipment as the Treasurer-Tax Collector
requests, the Treasurer-Tax Collector may, after full consideration of all
information within their knowledge concerning the cannabis business activities
of the person so refusing, make an assessment in the manner provided in §
5.03.185 of any taxes estimated to be due. The Treasurer-Tax Collector may
collect a fee adopted by the Board of Supervisors to pay for the cost of
examination and audit should the books and records be provided in a form
insufficient to allow the Treasurer-Tax Collector to make a determination of
tax due.
(Measure C Initiative, adopted 2018)
§ 5.03.193 OTHER LICENSES, PERMITS, TAXES, FEES, OR CHARGES.
   (A)   The tax imposed hereunder does not limit or prohibit the levy or
collection of any other license, permit, or service fee, tax, fee, or charge
upon, or related to, any cannabis business activity.
   (B)   Nothing contained in this article shall be deemed to repeal, amend, be
in lieu of, replace, or in any way affect any requirements for any permit or
license required by, under, or by virtue of any provision of any other title or
chapter of this code, or any other ordinance or resolution of the county, nor
be deemed to repeal, amend, be in lieu of, replace, or in any way affect any
tax, fee, or other charge imposed, assessed, or required by, under, or by
virtue of any other title or chapter of this code, or any other ordinance or
resolution of the county. Any references made or contained in any other title
or chapter of this code to any licenses, license taxes, fees, or charges, or to
any schedule of license fees, shall be deemed to refer to the licenses, license
taxes, fees, or charges, or schedule of license fees, provided for in other
titles or chapters of this code.
(Measure C Initiative, adopted 2018)
§ 5.03.194 PAYMENT OF TAX DOES NOT AUTHORIZE UNLAWFUL ACTIVITIES.
   (A)   The payment of a cannabis business activities tax required by this
article, and which is accepted by the county, shall not entitle any person to
carry on any cannabis business activity unless that person has complied with
all of the requirements of this code and all other applicable state laws.
   (B)   No tax paid under the provisions of this article shall be construed as
authorizing the conduct or continuance of any illegal or unlawful business, or
any business in violation of any local or state law.
(Measure C Initiative, adopted 2018)
§ 5.03.195 MANNER OF GIVING NOTICE.
   (A)   Any notice required to be given hereunder by the county to any person
shall be sufficiently given or served if it is served upon the person either by
personal delivery or by a deposit of the notice in the United States mail,
postage prepaid thereon, addressed to the person at the address of the location
of the business or to such other address as they shall register with the
Treasurer-Tax Collector for the purpose of receiving notices provided under
this article; or, should the person have no address registered with the
Treasurer-Tax Collector for such purpose, then to such person's last known
address. For the purposes of this article, a service by mail is complete at the
time of deposit in the United States mail.
   (B)   Failure of any person to receive any notice required by this article
to be given shall not affect the validity of any proceedings taken thereto.
(Measure C Initiative, adopted 2018)
§ 5.03.196 UNLAWFUL ACTIVITIES DESIGNATED; MISDEMEANOR.
   Any person violating any of the provision of this article shall be deemed
guilty of a misdemeanor, punishable by a fine of not more than $500, or by
imprisonment for a period of not more than six months, or by both such fine and
imprisonment.
(Measure C Initiative, adopted 2018)
§ 5.03.197 VIOLATION; TAXES NOT WAIVED.
   The conviction and punishment of any person for failure to pay the required
tax shall not excuse or exempt such person from any civil action for the tax
debt unpaid at the time of such conviction. No civil action shall prevent a
criminal prosecution for any violation of the provisions of this chapter or of
any state law requiring the payment of all taxes.
(Measure C Initiative, adopted 2018)
§ 5.03.198 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this article, or its application to any person or
circumstance, is determined by a court of competent jurisdiction to be
unlawful, unenforceable, or otherwise void, that determination shall have no
effect on any other provision of this article or the application of this
article to any other person or circumstance, and, to that end, the provisions
hereof are severable.
(Measure C Initiative, adopted 2018)
§ 5.03.199 REMEDIES CUMULATIVE.
   All remedies and penalties prescribed by this article or which are available
under any other provision of this code and any other provision of law or equity
are cumulative. The use of one or more remedies by the article shall not bar
the use of any other remedy for the purpose of enforcing the provisions of this
article.
(Measure C Initiative, adopted 2018)
§ 5.03.200 AMENDMENT OR REPEAL.
   This article may be repealed or amended by the Board of Supervisors without
a vote of the people to the extent allowed by law. However, as required by
Article XIII C of the California Constitution, voter approval is required for
any amendment that would increase the maximum rate of any tax levied pursuant
to this article, that would increase the maximum rate specified for each
category of cannabis business activity, or that otherwise constitute a tax
increase for which voter approval is required by Article XIII C of the
California Constitution. The following actions shall not constitute an increase
of the rate of a tax:
   (A)   The setting of the rate of any tax authorized hereunder to a rate that
is no higher than the maximum rate set by this article, including the
authorized cost of living adjustment, or the restoration of the rate of the tax
to a rate that is no higher than the maximum rate set by this article,
including the cost of living adjustment, if the Board of Supervisors has acted
to reduce the rate of the tax; or
   (B)   An action that interprets or clarifies the methodology of the tax, or
any definition applicable to the tax, so long as interpretation or
clarification (even if contrary to some prior interpretation or clarification)
is not inconsistent with the language of this article; or
   (C)   The collection of the tax imposed by this article, even if the article
had, for some period of time, failed to collect the tax; or
   (D)   The establishment or discontinuation of a class of persons that is
exempted or excepted from the tax hereunder.
(Measure C Initiative, adopted 2018)
CHAPTER 5.05: REASSESSMENT OF PROPERTY DAMAGED OR DESTROYED BY MISFORTUNE OR
CALAMITY
Section
   
5.05.001   Purpose
   
5.05.002   Eligibility
   
5.05.003   Time to file application
   
5.05.004   Application
   
5.05.005   Assessment
   
5.05.006   Appeal
   
5.05.007   Reassessment
   
5.05.008   Computation, payment or refund
   
5.05.009   Constitutionality
Editor’s note:
   Prior ordinance history: Ords. 354 and 381.
§ 5.05.001 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter, pursuant to Cal. Revenue and Taxation Code §
170, is to provide relief from the responsibility to pay ad valorem taxes
assessed against property in this county which may be damaged or destroyed by
misfortune or calamity. It is the intent of this chapter to supersede and
repeal Ord. 476, adopted August 20, 1984, such ordinance to be repealed on the
effective date of this chapter.
(1966 Code, § 13B-1) (Ord. 783, § 1)
§ 5.05.002 ELIGIBILITY.
   (A)   Every assessee of any taxable property, or any person liable for the
taxes thereon, whose property was damaged or destroyed without his or her
fault, may apply for reassessment of that property as provided in this chapter.
To be eligible for reassessment, the damage or destruction to the property must
have been caused by any of the following:
      (1)   A major misfortune or calamity in an area or region subsequently
proclaimed by the Governor to be in a state of disaster, if that property was
damaged or destroyed by the major misfortune or calamity that caused the
governor to proclaim the area or region to be in a state of disaster;
      (2)   A misfortune or calamity; or
      (3)   A misfortune or calamity that, with respect to a possessory
interest in land owned by the state or federal government, has caused the
permit or other right to enter upon the land to be suspended or restricted.
   (B)   The sum of the full cash values of the land, improvements and
personalty before the damage or destruction must exceed the sum of the values
after the damage by $10,000 or more.
(1966 Code, § 13B-2) (Ord. 783, § 2)
§ 5.05.003 TIME TO FILE APPLICATION.
   Application for reassessment of taxable property, which is subject to the
provisions of this chapter, shall be made, in writing, to the Assessor of San
Benito County:
   (A)   Within 12 months of the misfortune or calamity;
   (B)   If no application is made and the Assessor determines that within the
preceding 12 months a property has suffered damage caused by misfortune or
calamity which may qualify the property owner for relief under this chapter,
the Assessor shall provide the last known owner of the property with an
application for reassessment. The property owner shall file the completed
application within 60 days of notification by the Assessor, but in no case more
than 12 months after the occurrence of the damage; and
   (C)   If no application is made and the Assessor determines that within the
preceding twelve months a property has suffered damage caused by misfortune or
calamity which may qualify the property owner for relief under this chapter,
the Assessor may reassess the property and notify the last known owner of the
property of the reassessment.
(1966 Code, § 13B-3) (Ord. 783, § 3)
§ 5.05.004 APPLICATION.
   The application shall be on a form approved or furnished by the Assessor of
San Benito County. The application shall be executed under penalty of perjury
or, if executed outside the State of California, verified by affidavit.
(1966 Code, § 13B-4) (Ord. 783, § 4)
§ 5.05.005 ASSESSMENT.
   Upon receipt of an application or approval of the Board of Supervisors under
§
5.05.003 of this chapter, the Assessor shall assess the property pursuant to
the provisions of Cal. Revenue and Taxation Code § 170.
(1966 Code, § 13B-5) (Ord. 783, § 5)
§ 5.05.006 APPEAL.
   An applicant may appeal the proposed reassessment to the Board of
Equalization of San Benito County within six months of the date of mailing the
notice of proposed reassessment. The appeals shall be governed by the
provisions of Cal. Revenue and Taxation Code § 170 and such additional law and
local rules as may be applicable thereto.
(1966 Code, § 13B-6) (Ord. 783, § 6)
§ 5.05.007 REASSESSMENT.
   Upon partial reconstruction, restoration or repair on any subsequent lien
date or when fully repaired, restored or reconstructed, the Assessor shall
reassess the property pursuant to the provisions of Cal. Revenue and Taxation
Code § 170.
(1966 Code, § 13B-7) (Ord. 783, § 7)
§ 5.05.008 COMPUTATION, PAYMENT OR REFUND.
   Any computation, payment or refund of tax on property reassessed pursuant to
this chapter shall be governed by the provisions of Cal. Revenue and Taxation
Code § 170.
(1966 Code, § 13B-8) (Ord. 783, § 8)
§ 5.05.009 CONSTITUTIONALITY.
   If any section, division, sentence, clause or phrase of this chapter is for
any reason held to be unconstitutional, the decision shall not affect the
validity of the remaining portions of this chapter. The Board of Supervisors
declares that it would have passed this chapter and each section, division,
sentence, clause or phrase thereof, irrespective of the fact that any one or
more sections, divisions, sentences, clauses or phrases be declared
unconstitutional.
(1966 Code, § 13B-9) (Ord. 783, § 9)
CHAPTER 5.07: PROPERTY TAX ADMINISTRATIVE COST RECOVERY
Section
   
5.07.001   Property tax administrative cost recovery
   
5.07.002   “Local jurisdiction” defined
   
5.07.003   Clerk-Auditor-Recorder report
   
5.07.004   Public hearing
   
5.07.005   Findings and determinations
   
5.07.006   Collection of property tax administrative costs
§ 5.07.001 PROPERTY TAX ADMINISTRATIVE COST RECOVERY.
   In each fiscal year, the county shall receive from, or on behalf of, every
incorporated city and every other local jurisdiction for which the county
provides property tax assessment and collection services, an amount equal to
the county’s property tax administrative costs proportionately attributable to
such incorporated city or local jurisdiction for the previous fiscal year.
(1966 Code, § 22-1) (Ord. 590, § 1(part); Ord. 842, § 1(part), 2009)
§ 5.07.002 “LOCAL JURISDICTION” DEFINED.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   LOCAL JURISDICTION. The county and every school district, redevelopment
agency, special district or other governmental entity, excepting incorporated
cities, for or on behalf of which the county provides property tax assessment
or collection services.
(1966 Code, § 22-2) (Ord. 590, § 1(part))
§ 5.07.003 CLERK-AUDITOR-RECORDER REPORT.
   In every fiscal year, the Clerk-Auditor-Recorder shall report to the Board
of Supervisors the property tax-related costs to the Assessor, Tax Collector
and Auditor, including the applicable administrative overhead costs permitted
by the federal circular A87 standards last approved by the State of California
for the county, for the previous fiscal year, proportionately attributable to
each incorporated city and to each local jurisdiction in the ratio of property
tax revenue received by each incorporated city and local jurisdiction divided
by the total property tax revenue received by all incorporated cities and local
jurisdictions in the county for the previous fiscal year. The report shall
constitute proposed charges against each incorporated city and local
jurisdiction for its proportion of the administrative costs.
(1966 Code, § 22-3) (Ord. 590, § 1(part))
§ 5.07.004 PUBLIC HEARING.
   (A)   After its receipt of the report from the Clerk-Auditor-Recorder of the
property tax-related costs of the Assessor, Tax Collector and Auditor
proportionately attributable to each incorporated city and local jurisdiction
in the county for the previous fiscal year, the Board of Supervisors and the
Clerk-Auditor-Recorder shall jointly hold a public hearing at which any
incorporated city and local jurisdiction may file written objections to the
report of the Clerk-Auditor-Recorder, and at which any person may make oral or
written presentations concerning the report, at a regularly scheduled meeting
of the Board of Supervisors.
   (B)   The Clerk of the Board shall publish notice of the time and place of
the hearing and a general explanation of the matter to be considered as
required by Cal. Gov’t Code § 66018; and the Clerk of the Board shall mail
notice of the hearing, including a general explanation of the matter to be
considered and a statement that the data required by the section is available,
together with a copy of the report, to every incorporated city and local
jurisdiction in the county.
(1966 Code, § 22-4) (Ord. 590, § 1(part))
§ 5.07.005 FINDINGS AND DETERMINATIONS.
   (A)   After hearing, the Board of Supervisors and the Clerk-Auditor-Recorder
shall severally make findings and determinations on the report and on each
written objection received, and the Board of Supervisors and the Clerk-Auditor-
Recorder shall severally determine the property tax administrative costs
proportionately attributable to each incorporated city and, to each local
jurisdiction for the prior fiscal year.
   (B)   The Clerk of the Board shall give notice to every incorporated city
and to each local jurisdiction in the county of the findings and
determinations.
(1966 Code, § 22-5) (Ord. 590, § 1(part))
§ 5.07.006 COLLECTION OF PROPERTY TAX ADMINISTRATIVE COSTS.
   (A)   For the purpose of the computations required by Cal. Revenue and
Taxation Code § 97, the amount of property tax presumed to have been received
by the county in the prior fiscal year shall be increased by the amount of
property tax administrative costs for the prior fiscal year attributable in
incorporated cities.
   (B)   The Clerk-Auditor-Recorder shall submit an invoice to all local
jurisdictions other than the county for the property tax administrative costs
for the prior fiscal year attributable to the local jurisdictions.
   (C)   In addition to any remedy otherwise available to it, the county may
retain up to one-half of any increased property tax allocation to which an
incorporated city or a local jurisdiction may otherwise be entitled, but not to
exceed the amount of property tax administrative costs to which the county is
entitled plus accrued interests.
   (D)   Any invoice for property tax administrative costs which remains unpaid
in whole or in part after 30 days and for which the county is unable to retain
increased property tax allocations, shall bear interest at the legal rate per
annum established pursuant to Cal. Code of Civil Procedure § 685.010, on the
unpaid balance thereof.
(1966 Code, § 22-6) (Ord. 590, § 1(part))
CHAPTER 5.09: PURCHASING
Section
   
5.09.001   Purpose
   
5.09.002   Definitions
   
5.09.003   Designation of the Purchasing Agent
   
5.09.004   Purchasing Agent - powers and duties
   
5.09.005   Designation of Assistant Purchasing Agents
   
5.09.006   Assistant Purchasing Agent - powers and duties
   
5.09.007   Special powers and duties for County Counsel
   
5.09.008   Special powers and duties for the Public Works Department
   
5.09.009   Purchasing methods and procedures
   
5.09.010   Exceptions to the competitive process
   
5.09.011   Contractual procedures
   
5.09.012   Preference for products containing recycled materials
   
5.09.013   Preference for local businesses
   
5.09.014   Unlawful purchases
   
5.09.015   Emergency purchases without prior approval
   
5.09.016   Purchasing and Contracting Policy Manual
   
5.09.017   Alternative procedure for leasing county realty
   
5.09.018   Uniform Public Construction Cost Accounting Act
§ 5.09.001 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to adopt policies and procedures governing
purchases of materials, supplies, furnishings, equipment, and other personal
property, and contractual services by the county in accordance with Cal. Gov't
Code Article 7 (commencing with § 25500) of Chapter 5 of Part 2 of Division 2
of Title 3. This chapter is not intended to conflict with applicable provisions
of state law and shall be interpreted as supplementary thereto.
(Ord. 853, § 1 (part), 2010)
§ 5.09.002 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the content clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CONTRACTUAL SERVICES. Any and all of the following services: telephone, gas,
water, electric light and power services; equipment and machinery rentals and
maintenance agreements; insurance coverage; professional services; and all
other types of services required by the county but not furnished by its own
employees.
   DEPARTMENT HEAD. Any person appointed or designated by the Board as
administrative head of any office, department or other organizational unit of
county government and any special district whose affairs and funds are under
the supervision and control of the Board of Supervisors acting as its ex
officio governing body.
   FIXED ASSETS. Any piece of tangible personal property having an estimated
useful life of one calendar year or more, capable of being permanently
identified as an individual unit of property, and belonging to one of the
general classes of property considered a fixed asset in accordance with
generally accepted accounting practices (i.e., equipment, machinery, vehicles,
furnishings,) with an accounting value of $5,000 or more.
   LOCAL BUSINESS. Any person or entity that regularly maintains a place of
business and transacts business in, or maintains an inventory of merchandise
for sale in, the County of San Benito.
   PROFESSIONAL SERVICES. An independent contractor's expert advice or
professional services that involve extended analysis, personal expertise, the
exercise of discretion and independent judgment in their performance, which are
of an advisory nature, provide a recommended course of action, and have an end
product transmitting information which is related to county programs. Providers
are selected on the basis of qualification, subject to the negotiation of a
fair and reasonable compensation. Classification as professional services may
also require an advanced, specialized type of knowledge, expertise, technical
skill or training customarily acquired either by a prolonged course of study or
equivalent experience, such as accountants, financial advisors, auditors, grant
writers, program specialists, physicians, mental health clinicians, and other
medical and public health service providers, labor consultants and negotiators,
investigators, law enforcement retained certified laboratories, attorneys and
other litigation-related specialists, environmental consultants, appraisers,
architects, landscape architects, surveyors, engineers, design professionals,
and construction project management firms.
   SUPPLIES AND MATERIALS. Articles or things which shall be furnished or used
by any department, including any and all printing, binding, publication,
stationery, forms, journals and reports, but excluding services or materials
furnished "in kind", in lieu of cash expenditure, and excluding fixed assets.
(Ord. 853, § 1 (part), 2010; Ord. 983, § 1, 2019)
§ 5.09.003 DESIGNATION OF THE PURCHASING AGENT.
   Pursuant to Cal. Gov't Code § 25500, the Board of Supervisors appoints the
County Administrative Officer or designee to serve as the Purchasing Agent for
San Benito County, at the pleasure of the Board of Supervisors.
(Ord. 853, § 1 (part), 2010)
§ 5.09.004 PURCHASING AGENT - POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Purchasing Agent shall have all the duties and powers prescribed by laws
of the state relating to county purchasing agents, this chapter and the
resolutions and orders of the Board of Supervisors to include the following
duties:
   (A)   Acquisition of personal property. To purchase, lease to purchase, or
lease equipment, materials, supplies and all other personal property and
services for the county where funding has been approved and budgeted by the
Board, unless specified otherwise in County Code or in the Purchasing and
Contracting Policy Manual.
   (B)   Service contracts. To engage independent contractors to perform
services through contracts for the county and offices thereof with or without
furnishing of material where the aggregate cost does not exceed $50,000.
Contracts shall not be split between fiscal years to circumvent this dollar
limitation.
   (C)   Renewal/extension of contracts. To renew or extend contracts for
services that are related to ongoing county projects provided the financial
obligation falls within his or her purview of authority; and to renew or extend
a Board approved contract or amended contract in an additional amount not to
exceed $10,000 of the Board approved contract or amended contract.
   (D)   Rental of real property. To negotiate and execute in the name of the
county, contracts to lease or rent for the county real property or storage
space where funding has been approved by the Board, with a total rent amount
not to exceed $50,000.
   (E)   Transfer of property within the county. To transfer personal property
within the county with an estimated value of not more than $5,000. Such
transfers shall be made only with the approval of both the donating and
receiving department directors.
(Ord. 853, § 1 (part), 2010; Ord. 983, § 2, 2019; Ord. 990, § 1, 2019; Ord.
1068, § 1, 2024)
§ 5.09.005 DESIGNATION OF ASSISTANT PURCHASING AGENTS.
   The Purchasing Agent has the authority to designate such assistants and
limit or rescind authority. Each department head of the County of San Benito
shall serve as Assistant Purchasing Agents for purposes of their respective
budgets only. Assistant Purchasing Agents may request authorization to
designate an additional Assistant Purchasing Agent within their department,
subject to the approval of the County Administrative Officer and the County
Auditor.
(Ord. 853, § 1 (part), 2010)
§ 5.09.006 ASSISTANT PURCHASING AGENT - POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Assistant Purchasing Agent shall have all the duties and powers
prescribed by laws of the state relating to county purchasing agents, this
chapter and the resolutions and orders of the Board of Supervisors to include
the following duties:
   (A)   Acquisition of personal property. To purchase equipment, materials,
supplies and all other personal property and services for the county where
funding has been approved and budgeted by the Board, unless specified otherwise
in the County Code or in the Purchasing and Contracting Policy Manual, such as
fixed assets, which require Board of Supervisors and CAO approval, unless the
purchase has been approved during the budget process.
   (B)   Service contracts. To engage independent contractors for services
through contracts where the cost does not exceed $10,000 where funding has been
approved and budgeted in their department budget. Contracts shall not be split
between fiscal years to circumvent this dollar limitation.
   (C)   Rental of real property. To negotiate and execute in the name of the
county, contracts to lease or rent for the county real property or storage
space, with an annual rent not to exceed $10,000, where funding has been
approved and budgeted in their department budget by the Board.
(Ord. 853, § 1 (part), 2010; Ord. 983, § 3, 2019; Ord. 990, § 2, 2019; Ord.
1068, § 2, 2024)
§ 5.09.007 SPECIAL POWERS AND DUTIES FOR COUNTY COUNSEL.
   County Counsel is authorized to engage outside attorneys for professional
services through contract, when it does not involve retention of counsel to
appear on the county's behalf in either pending or anticipated litigation and
the cost does not exceed $10,000.
(Ord. 853, § 1 (part), 2010)
§ 5.09.008 SPECIAL POWERS AND DUTIES FOR THE PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENT.
   Under the direction of the Public Works Administrator, the Public Works
Department shall be given additional special powers and duties as it relates to
the following:
   (A)   Sale or disposal of surplus personal property. To declare surplus any
item of an estimated value of $5,000 or less and sell, trade or dispose of in
the best interest of the county through bid, solicitation or transfer. Any
other item of personal property above this amount, are subject to the Board of
Supervisors approval. The Resource Management Agency may utilize a third-party
private auction company to find a purchaser for surplus items.
   (B)   Construction and repair contracts. To employ independent contractors,
upon receipt of a requisition, suitable specifications, and supporting
documentation for construction and repair work where the estimated aggregated
cost does not exceed the amount specified in Cal. Public Contract Code §§ 20131
and 20150.4, and the San Benito County Code
Chapter 15.09, Public Projects. All documents for bidding purposes shall be
submitted to the County Counsel's Office for review and approval before going
forward with the project.
(Ord. 853, § 1 (part), 2010; Ord. 1068, § 3, 2024)
§ 5.09.009 PURCHASING METHODS AND PROCEDURES.
   In the performance of his or her function hereunder, the Purchasing Agent or
Assistant Purchasing Agent shall comply with all applicable statutes,
ordinances and regulations. Purchases shall be made using such methods and
procedures to secure the lowest price consistent with the quality desirable for
the use intended. The Purchasing Agent and Assistant Purchasing Agent shall
comply with standards set forth in the San Benito County Purchasing and
Contracting Policy Manual.
(Ord. 853, § 1 (part), 2010)
§ 5.09.010 EXCEPTIONS TO THE COMPETITIVE PROCESS.
   Except as otherwise directed by law, or as directed by the Board of
Supervisors, competitive process is not required for the following purchases:
   (A)   Expert and professional services which involve extended analysis; the
exercise of discretion and independent judgment in their performance; and an
advanced, specialized type of knowledge, expertise, or training customarily
acquired either by a prolonged course of study or equivalent experience as
defined under §
5.09.002 - Professional Services.
   (B)   Election supplies.
   (C)   Legal brief printing, stenographic services, and transcripts.
   (D)   Books, publications, subscriptions, recordings, motion picture films,
and annual book and periodical contracts.
   (E)   Appraiser services.
   (F)   Insurance.
   (G)   Contracts for services which by law, some other office or body is
specifically charged with obtaining.
   (H)   Public utility services.
   (I)   Ordinary travel expenses.
   (J)   Personal property or services obtainable through master contracts or
purchasing association pools identified for the use and benefit of all county
departments.
   (K)   Where law fixes the price of property or services.
   (L)   Proprietary drugs and pharmaceuticals, medical supplies and equipment.
   (M)   Training, seminars, and classes for county personnel.
   (N)   Sole source procurement, defined as an award for a commodity or
service which can only be purchased from one supplier, usually because of its
technological, specialized, or unique character.
   (O)   Emergency purchases necessary when unforeseen circumstances require an
immediate purchase in order to avoid a hazard to life or property or serious
interruption of the operation of a county department, or the necessary
emergency repair of county equipment or heavy equipment required for the
operation of a county department, or in order to avoid economic loss to the
county. This may include emergency purchases necessary for the conduction of an
election.
   (P)   When the product/services are needed by the county pending a contract
award and a contractor agrees to provide such product/services at the same
contract price as a previous award, until a new contract has been awarded. Such
interim period contracts shall not exceed six months.
   (R)   If grant guidelines or source of funding require grantees to abide by
different procurement procedures other than those adopted by the county, the
federal and state regulations shall prevail.
(Ord. 853, § 1 (part), 2010; Ord. 1068, §§ 4, 5, 2024)
§ 5.09.011 CONTRACTUAL PROCEDURES.
   All contracts are binding legal documents that are subject to the following
provisions:
   (A)   All contracts, leases and any amendments or modifications, except as
set forth below, shall be reviewed and approved as to legal form by the County
Counsel’s Office prior to execution of the Purchasing Agent, Assistant
Purchasing Agents and/or Board of Supervisors. Contracts less than $10,000 and
work experience contracts shall not require legal review, but shall be reviewed
by County Counsel’s designee, such as a paralegal, legal secretary or the Risk
Management Department. All signatures as to legal form by County Counsel or
designee may be by original, faxed, or emailed signature.
   (B)   Prior approval shall be obtained from County Counsel's Office before
any contracts for professional services relating to outside attorney services
are executed. All services provided by outside attorneys shall be coordinated
by the County Counsel's Office.
   (C)   The Clerk of the Board is the keeper of public records. All original
signed contracts upon execution by the Board of Supervisors, Purchasing Agent
and/or the Assistant Purchasing Agents shall be submitted to the Clerk of the
Board as soon as possible to ensure that the public record is maintained.
(Ord. 853, § 1 (part), 2010; Ord. 983, § 4, 2019)
§ 5.09.012 PREFERENCE FOR PRODUCTS CONTAINING RECYCLED MATERIALS.
   (A)   The Purchasing Agent shall establish and maintain procedures and
specifications to ensure that the county gives preference, in its purchasing
decisions, to products containing the maximum amount of recycled materials,
where the quality and fitness of such products is equal to those of products
containing no recycled materials, or a lesser amount of recycled materials, and
where the total cost of such products is reasonable in comparison to the total
cost of those products containing no recycled materials, or a lesser amount of
recycled materials.
   (B)   PRODUCT CONTAINING RECYCLED MATERIALS means, with respect to a paper
product, a “recycled paper product” as that term is defined in Cal. Public
Contract Code § 12301(c), and §§ 22150 through 22154 and §§ 12200 and 12209,
and means, with respect to other products, a “recycled product,” as that term
is defined in Cal. Public Contract Code § 12301(d).
   (C)   To the extent that the Cal. Public Contract Code or other provisions
of state law provide for purchasing preferences which are more extensive than
those established herein or in the county’s purchasing policy, or call for
additional procedures to increase the use of recycled materials, the provisions
of state law shall prevail.
(Ord. 853, § 1 (part), 2010; Ord. 1068, § 7, 2024)
§ 5.09.013 PREFERENCE FOR LOCAL BUSINESSES.
   When all other factors are determined to be equal, preference shall be given
to individuals or firms having a bona-fide place of business within the county.
Any responsive, responsible bid, proposal or quote for materials and supplies
from a local business which is within 3% of the lowest responsive, responsible
bid, proposal or quote for materials and supplies, shall be considered equal to
the amount of the lowest responsive, responsible bid, proposal or quote, except
where state or federal law or rules or grant requirements regarding procurement
prevails. If the business has additional places of business located outside of
the county, the designated point of sale for all resulting purchases shall be
the bona-fide place of business located within the county. This preference
shall only apply to bids up to $500,000.
(Ord. 853, § 1 (part), 2010; Ord. 1068, § 6, 2024)
§ 5.09.014 UNLAWFUL PURCHASES.
   Failure of the Purchasing Agent or Assistant Purchasing Agent to adhere to
the provisions of this chapter may incur costs not meriting the definition of
county charges and therefore becoming the personal responsibility of the
Purchasing Agent or Assistant Purchasing Agent. Except as otherwise provided by
law, no purchase of materials, supplies, furnishings, equipment, other personal
property or contractual services shall be made in excess of the amount of the
appropriations allowed by the budget.
(Ord. 853, § 1 (part), 2010)
§ 5.09.015 EMERGENCY PURCHASES WITHOUT PRIOR APPROVAL.
   (A)   Emergency purchases may be made by the Purchasing Agent or Assistant
Purchasing Agent when a generally unexpected occurrence or unforeseen
circumstances require an immediate purchase of material, supplies or equipment:
      (1)   In order to avoid a hazard to life or property;
      (2)   In order to avoid a serious interruption or discontinuance of
essential services or operation of a county department;
      (3)   In order to make necessary emergency repairs of county equipment or
heavy equipment required to provide essential services or for the operation of
a county department; or
      (4)   In order to avoid economic loss to the county.
   (B)   Emergency purchases shall be submitted to the Board of Supervisors for
ratification at its next meeting.
(Ord. 853, § 1 (part), 2010)
§ 5.09.016 PURCHASING AND CONTRACTING POLICY MANUAL.
   Board adoption of this chapter shall be accompanied by the adoption of a
county Purchasing and Contracting Policy Manual identifying specific procedures
to implement the provisions of this chapter. From time to time, it may be
amended and updated as deemed appropriate by the Board of Supervisors.
(Ord. 853, § 1 (part), 2010)
§ 5.09.017 ALTERNATIVE PROCEDURE FOR LEASING COUNTY REALTY.
   (A)   Pursuant to Cal. Gov’t Code § 25537, a procedure alternative to that
required by Cal. Gov’t Code §§ 25526 through 25535 for the leasing or licensing
of any real property belonging to the county is hereby adopted.
   (B)   The Board of Supervisors shall accept the highest proposal for the
proposed lease or license submitted in response to a call for bids posted in at
least three public places for not less than 15 days and published for not less
than two weeks in a newspaper of general circulation, if such newspaper is
published in the county, or reject all bids.
   (C)   Leases or licenses of a duration not exceeding ten years and having an
estimated monthly rental of not exceeding $7,500 may be excluded from the
bidding procedure specified in division (A) of this section, except that notice
shall be given pursuant to Cal. Gov’t Code § 6061, posted in the office of the
Clerk of the Board of Supervisors, and if the lease or license involves
residential property, notice shall be given to the housing sponsors, as defined
by Cal. Health and Safety Code §§ 50074 and 50074.5. The notice shall describe
the property proposed to be leased or licensed, the terms of the lease or
license, the location where offers to lease or license the property will be
accepted, the location where leases or license will be executed, and any county
officer authorized to execute the lease or license. If a lease or license is
excluded from the bidding procedure, the actual monthly rental in the executed
lease or license shall not exceed $7,500, the term of the executed lease or
license shall not exceed ten years and the lease or license is not renewable.
   (D)   The Purchasing Agent or Purchasing Agent's designee may execute leases
or licenses pursuant to this section, which authority is hereby delegated for a
term of five years, until November 1, 2024, at which time this section may be
updated.
   (E)   The Purchasing Officer, or his/her designee, shall provide a notice to
the supervisorial district office in which the property proposed to be licensed
is located at least five working days prior to execution of the lease or
license. The notice shall describe the property proposed to be leased/licensed,
the terms and conditions of the lease/license, and the name of the proposed
lease/licensee. If the supervisorial district office has not responded in
writing objecting to the proposed lease/license within five working days after
the notice has been provided, the proposed lease/license shall be deemed
approved by the district office. If the supervisorial district office objects
to the proposed lease/license in writing within five working days, the lease/
license may be submitted for approval by the board of supervisors at a regular
meeting.
   (F)   Notice pursuant to this section shall also be mailed or delivered at
least 15 days prior to accepting offers to lease pursuant to this section to
any person who has filed a written request for notice with either the Clerk of
the Board or with any other person designated by the Board to receive these
requests. The county shall charge a fee, which is reasonably related to the
costs of providing this service. The county requires each request to be
annually renewed. The notice shall describe the property proposed to be leased,
the terms of the lease, the location where offers to lease the property will be
accepted, the location where leases will be executed, and any county officer
authorized to execute the lease.
   (G)   This section shall be subject to Cal. Gov’t Code § 25537 as amended
from time to time or any successor statute as amended from time to time.
(Ord. 996, § 1, 2019)
§ 5.09.018 UNIFORM PUBLIC CONSTRUCTION COST ACCOUNTING ACT.
   If the County Board of Supervisors adopts a resolution opting into the
California Uniform Public Construction Cost Accounting Act (CUPCCAA), then for
as long as the County of San Benito is subject to that Act, the provisions of
Article II of
Chapter 15.09 shall apply to all public projects as defined by Cal. Public
Contract Code § 22002.
(Ord. 1060, § 4, 2023)
CHAPTER 5.11: COST RECOVERY PROGRAM
Section
   
5.11.001   Purpose of fee
   
5.11.002   Legal surcharge
   
5.11.003   Billing procedures; amounts due
§ 5.11.001 PURPOSE OF FEE.
   The purpose of this section is to implement a cost recovery program where
the tax collector is required to send notice of a proposed tax sale to the last
known mailing address of the parties of interest. The Cal. Revenue and Taxation
Code provides $35 reimbursement pre parcel whereas the actual cost of the
search and notice is approximately is $100 to $500 per parcel.
(Ord. 635, § 2, 1993; Ord. 842 § 1(part), 2009)
§ 5.11.002 LEGAL SURCHARGE.
   A legal surcharge, in addition to other fees, shall be paid where there has
been a claim made and reviewed. The cost of legal review shall be the actual
cost billed by county counsel for services rendered.
(Ord. 635, § 3.1, 1993)
§ 5.11.003 BILLING PROCEDURES; AMOUNTS DUE.
   (A)   The amounts due under this section shall be included as a general
charge at sale or redemption and shall constitute part of the required whole
amount necessary to redeem or sell.
   (B)   The amount due shall be the actual cost of search and notice required
to apprise all parties of interest as to the proposed tax sale. In addition, to
the cost of search and notice, there shall be added the cost of registered
mailings. If a claim is made and reviewed the legal surcharge shall apply. The
legal cost shall be billed separately by county counsel.
   (C)   All these costs shall be specified and detailed for each parcel and
shall be broken down for reference and shall be filed with and maintained with
the tax records for each parcel.
(Ord. 635, §§ 3.2, 3.3, 1993)
CHAPTER 5.13: LOW VALUE SUPPLEMENTAL AND ESCAPE ASSESSMENTS
Section
   
5.13.010   Authority and title
   
5.13.020   Purpose
   
5.13.030   Definitions
   
5.13.040   Authorization to cancel low value supplemental assessments
   
5.13.050   Prohibition against low value escape assessments
§ 5.13.010 AUTHORITY AND TITLE.
   Pursuant to the authority granted to it by the Cal. Revenue and Taxation
Code §§ 75.55 and 531.9, the Board of Supervisors does enact this chapter,
which shall be known and may be cited as the "Low Value Supplemental and Escape
Assessments Ordinance."
(Ord. 877, § 1(part))
§ 5.13.020 PURPOSE.
   (A)   It is the intent of this chapter to preserve and protect the San
Benito County General Fund, from incurring costs in preparing supplemental tax
assessments that would result in a net loss to the county, because the tax
revenues to be generated would be less than the cost of assessing and
collecting them.
   (B)   It is the further intent of this chapter to preserve and protect the
San Benito County General Fund, from incurring costs in preparing escape
assessments of appraisal units that would result in a net loss to the county,
because the tax revenues to be generated would be less than the cost of
assessing and collecting them.
(Ord. 877, § 1(part))
§ 5.13.030 DEFINITIONS.
   All words used in the present tense shall include the future tenses, and all
words in the singular shall include the plural. Except where the context
otherwise requires, the following definitions shall govern the construction of
this chapter:
   ASSESSOR. The San Benito County Assessor.
   BOARD OF SUPERVISORS or BOARD. The San Benito County Board of Supervisors.
   COUNTY. The County of San Benito, a political subdivision of the State of
California.
   LOW VALUE ESCAPE ASSESSMENT. An escape assessment or any appraisal unit that
would result in tax revenue in an amount less than the cost of assessment and
collection, but in no event in an amount of tax revenue of $50 or more.
   LOW VALUE SUPPLEMENTAL ASSESS- MENT. A supplemental assessment that would
result in tax revenue in an amount less than the cost of assessment and
collection, but in no event in an amount of tax revenue of $50 or more.
(Ord. 877, § 1(part))
§ 5.13.040 AUTHORIZATION TO CANCEL LOW VALUE SUPPLEMENTAL ASSESSMENTS.
   The assessor is authorized, pursuant to Cal. Revenue and Taxation Code §
75.55(b), to cancel any supplemental assessment where the assessment would
result in an amount of taxes due which is less than the cost of assessing and
collecting them. In no event would any supplemental assessment be cancelled if
the amount of taxes resulting from the supplemental assessment would exceed
$50.
(Ord. 877, § 1(part))
§ 5.13.050 PROHIBITION AGAINST LOW VALUE ESCAPE ASSESSMENTS.
   Pursuant to Cal. Revenue and Taxation Code § 531.9, the assessor is
prohibited from making any escape assessment of an appraisal unit where that
assessment would result in an amount of taxes due which is less than the cost
of assessing and collecting them. In no event would this prohibition apply to
any escape assessment of an appraisal unit if the amount of taxes resulting
from the escape assessment would exceed $50.
(Ord. 877, § 1(part))
TITLE 7: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
7.01.   GENERAL LICENSING AND PERMIT PROVISIONS
      
7.02.   CANNABIS BUSINESSES
      
7.03.   CARD ROOMS
      
7.04.   HEMP ENTITIES
      
7.05.   COMMUNITY ANTENNA TELEVISION SYSTEMS AND STATE VIDEO SERVICES
FRANCHISES
      
7.07.   FOOD AND FOOD ESTABLISHMENTS
      
7.09.   PLACES OF PUBLIC AMUSEMENTS
      
7.11.   WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS FACILITIES STANDARDS
      
7.13.   PROHIBITING SALES OF FLAVORED TOBACCO PRODUCTS AND SINGLE USE
ELECTRONIC CIGARETTES
      
7.14.   MICROENTERPRISE HOME KITCHEN OPERATIONS
CHAPTER 7.01: GENERAL LICENSING AND PERMIT PROVISIONS
Section
Article I. Business Permit Application Processing Policy
   
7.01.001   Purpose
   
7.01.002   Findings
   
7.01.003   Liaison Officer; responsibilities
   
7.01.004   Timetable
   
7.01.005   Suitability for Program
   
7.01.006   Process for placement in Program
Article II. Bingo
   
7.01.020   Short title
   
7.01.021   Authority
   
7.01.022   Purposes
   
7.01.023   Definitions
   
7.01.024   License; required
   
7.01.025   License; application procedure
   
7.01.026   License; fee
   
7.01.027   Procedures for operation of games
   
7.01.028   Violation; penalty
Cross-reference:
   Business License Tax, see
Chapter 5.03, Article
IV, of this code
   Transient Occupancy Tax, see
Chapter 5.03, Article III, of this code
Editor’s note:
   Ords. 73 and 114, relating to business licenses have not been set out
herein, but have been saved from repeal and are on file in the office of the
County Clerk.
Statutory reference:
   Licensing of businesses by counties, see Cal. Business and Professions Code
§§ 16100 to 16104
ARTICLE I. BUSINESS PERMIT APPLICATION PROCESSING POLICY
§ 7.01.001 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this article is to expedite applications of businesses
needing county approval for any type of permit, license or entitlement. The
program for expediting review of the business shall be referred to as the “Fast
Track Program”.
(1966 Code, § 20A-100) (Ord. 633, § 1, 1993)
§ 7.01.002 FINDINGS.
   (A)   The State of California is rapidly losing business opportunities to
other states and, consequently, jobs for its citizens.
   (B)   Businesses seeking to establish operations in California encounter
complex and expensive permitting processes.
   (C)   The permit processes can be streamlined and can be expedited without
sacrificing environmental review and without sacrificing public input
throughout the permit process.
   (D)   A speedy and fair resolution of an application by a business desiring
to locate in a particular jurisdiction improves the quality of the
jurisdiction’s citizens’ lives by providing increased opportunities for jobs,
economic growth and revenue for essential governmental services.
(1966 Code, § 20A-101) (Ord. 633, § 2, 1993)
§ 7.01.003 LIAISON OFFICER; RESPONSIBILITIES.
   (A)   There shall be a Business Application Processing Liaison Officer whose
function shall be performed by the Planning Director or his or her designate.
The function of this position shall be to serve as a liaison between suitable
business applicants and the various county agencies which necessarily review
the applications and any ancillary applications.
   (B)   Additional responsibilities of the Liaison Officer shall be to work
with other local government agencies in matters of mutual interest in locating
or in attracting businesses to the county, reviewing all such applications,
dealing with private sector representatives to assist business applicants in
establishing businesses in San Benito County.
(1966 Code, § 20A-102) (Ord. 633, §§ 3.1, 3.5, 1993)
§ 7.01.004 TIMETABLE.
   For each business application in the Fast Track Program, the Liaison Officer
shall create a timetable which shall be approved by the Board of Supervisors.
The timetable shall include complete identification of the tasks necessary to
gain review and a decision on the application. The obligations of both the
county and the applicant shall be set forth in the timetable with appropriate
times specified. The Liaison Officer shall prepare monthly reports for
consideration by the Board of Supervisors at its regular meeting. Any deviation
from the approved timetable shall be accounted for and the Board may direct and
take whatever action necessary to ensure the expedition of the application or
to remove the application from the fast track process. The basis for removal
shall be actions or omissions by the business applicant that delay or interfere
with the achievement of the timetable. An alteration of the project or any
other appropriate reason will justify removal from the Fast Track Program.
Placement on the Fast Track Program does not create a vested right for
continuance on that program by a business applicant.
(1966 Code, § 20A-103) (Ord. 633, § 3.2, 1993)
§ 7.01.005 SUITABILITY FOR PROGRAM.
   (A)   There shall be a screening process to evaluate business applications.
Only those suitable business applications shall be placed in the Fast Track
Program. The Board, by written resolution, from time to time, shall develop
regulations for the evaluation of applications to determine suitability for the
Fast Track Program.
   (B)   The factors to be considered are:
      (1)   The quantity of new jobs to be produced by the applicant, whether
those jobs be from an expansion of an existing business or from the
establishment of a new business;
      (2)   The desirability of the business, evaluated by standards such as
environmental concerns; and
      (3)   Other social or economic factors.
(1966 Code, § 20A-104) (Ord. 633, § 3.3, 1993)
§ 7.01.006 PROCESS FOR PLACEMENT IN PROGRAM.
   The placement on the Fast Track Program shall be made by request of any
business applicant. Upon a favorable screening evaluation, the application
shall be placed on the Fast Track Program after paying a fast track fee. The
fast track fee will be used to pay for the Fast Track Program and shall be set
by ordinance enacted from time to time. Initially, the fee shall be the actual
cost of reimbursement.
(1966 Code, § 20A-105) (Ord. 633, § 3.4, 1993)
ARTICLE II. BINGO
§ 7.01.020 SHORT TITLE.
   The ordinance codified in this article constitutes and may be referred to as
the “Bingo Ordinance”.
(1966 Code, § 8-1) (Ord. 376, § 1)
§ 7.01.021 AUTHORITY.
   The ordinance codified in this article is enacted pursuant to the authority
found in § 19 of Article IV of the State Constitution and Cal. Penal Code §
326.5.
(1966 Code, § 8-2) (Ord. 376, § 2)
§ 7.01.022 PURPOSES.
   The intent of this article is to promote the public health, safety, peace,
comfort, convenience and general welfare by the following specified purposes:
   (A)   To permit certain bingo games to be conducted by non-profit,
charitable organizations;
   (B)   To regulate participation and conduct of those organizations
authorized to conduct bingo games and prevent abuse of the participation and
conduct; and
   (C)   To provide a fair and orderly procedure whereby all interested persons
may participate in bingo games.
(1966 Code, § 8-3) (Ord. 376, § 3)
§ 7.01.023 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this article, certain terms used herein are defined as
follows.
   BINGO. A game of chance in which prizes are awarded on the basis of
designated numbers or symbols on a card which conform to numbers or symbols
selected at random.
   MINOR. Any person under the age of 18 years.
   NON-PROFIT, CHARITABLE ORGANIZATION. An organization exempt from the payment
of the bank and corporation tax under Cal. Revenue and Taxation Code § 23701d
and contribution or gift to which would be a charitable contribution under
I.R.C. § 170(c)(2).
(1966 Code, § 8-4) (Ord. 376, § 4)
§ 7.01.024 LICENSE; REQUIRED.
   Bingo may be conducted in the county pursuant to this article by a non-
profit, charitable organization, as defined in §
7.01.023, which has been granted a license under this article.
(1966 Code, § 8-5) (Ord. 376, § 5)
§ 7.01.025 LICENSE; APPLICATION PROCEDURE.
   The applicant shall apply to the County Clerk for a license authorizing the
conduct of bingo games. If the County Clerk finds the applicant eligible, he or
she shall issue a license to the applicant allowing the conduct of bingo games
pursuant to this article. Prior to the granting of any such license, the
applicant shall submit to the County Clerk certification by the appropriate
state and federal agency that it qualifies as a non-profit, charitable
organization.
(1966 Code, § 8-6) (Ord. 376, § 8)
§ 7.01.026 LICENSE; FEE.
   The county may impose a license fee not to exceed the actual cost of issuing
the license on each non-profit, charitable organization authorized to conduct
bingo games under this article. The fee shall be in such amount as may be
hereafter established by resolution of the Board of Supervisors.
(1966 Code, § 8-7) (Ord. 376, § 7)
§ 7.01.027 PROCEDURES FOR OPERATION OF GAMES.
   The following procedure shall be followed for the participation in the
conduct of bingo games.
   (A)   No minors shall be allowed to participate in any bingo game.
   (B)   A non-profit, charitable organization shall conduct a bingo game only
on property owned or leased by it and which property is used by such
organization for an office or for performance of the purposes for which the
organization is organized.
   (C)   All bingo games shall be open to the public, not just to the members
of the non-profit, charitable organization.
   (D)   A bingo game shall be operated and staffed only by members of the non-
profit, charitable organization which organized it. Only the organization
authorized to conduct a bingo game shall operate the game or participate in the
promotion, supervision or any other phase of the game.
      (1)   The members of the non-profit organization operating the game shall
not receive a profit, wage or salary from any bingo game.
      (2)   No individual, corporation, partnership or other legal entity,
except the organizations authorized to conduct a bingo game, shall hold a
financial interest in the conduct of the bingo game.
   (E)   All profits derived from a bingo game shall be kept in a special fund
or account and shall not be commingled with any other fund or account.
   (F)   No person shall be allowed to participate in a bingo game unless the
person is physically present at the time and place in which the bingo game is
being conducted.
   (G)   The total value of prizes awarded during the conduct of any bingo game
shall not exceed $250 in cash or kind, or both, for each separate game which is
held.
(1966 Code, § 8-8) (Ord. 376, § 6)
§ 7.01.028 VIOLATION; PENALTY.
   Any person who receives a profit, wage or salary from any bingo game or
violates any provision of this article shall be punishable pursuant to the
provisions of Cal. Penal Code § 326.5.
(1966 Code, § 8-9) (Ord. 376, § 9)
CHAPTER 7.02: CANNABIS BUSINESSES
Section
   
7.02.010   Authority, purpose, and intent
   
7.02.020   Definitions
   
7.02.030   Prohibitions; restriction on alcohol and tobacco
   
7.02.040   Cannabis business regulatory program
   
7.02.050   Cannabis business permit
   
7.02.051   Application review procedure; reservation of rights
   
7.02.052   [RESERVED]
   
7.02.053   Cannabis business permit issuance
   
7.02.054   Renewal of cannabis business permit
   
7.02.055   Amended application; change in location
   
7.02.056   Transfer of cannabis business permit
   
7.02.060   [RESERVED]
   
7.02.061   [RESERVED]
   
7.02.062   [RESERVED]
   
7.02.063   [RESERVED]
   
7.02.064   [RESERVED]
   
7.02.065   [RESERVED]
   
7.02.070   Denial, non-renewal, suspension, or revocation of permit
   
7.02.080   Appeal process
   
7.02.090   Fees and charges; debt owed to county
   
7.02.100   General requirements applicable to all cannabis businesses
   
7.02.110   General operating requirements
   
7.02.120   [RESERVED]
   
7.02.130   Operating requirements for out of county delivery services
   
7.02.140   Operating requirements for cultivators
   
7.02.150   Operating requirements for distributors
   
7.02.160   Operating requirements for manufacturers
   
7.02.170   Operating requirements for testing laboratories
   
7.02.180   Operating requirements for retail
   
7.02.190   Operating requirements for microbusinesses
   
7.02.200   Inspection and enforcement
   
7.02.210   Compliance with state and local laws
   
7.02.220   Permit holder responsible for violations
   
7.02.230   Limitations on county’s liability
§ 7.02.010 AUTHORITY, PURPOSE, AND INTENT.
   (A)   Pursuant to Article XI, Section 7 of the California Constitution, the
county is authorized to adopt and enforce ordinances and regulations not in
conflict with general laws to protect and promote the public health, safety,
and welfare of its citizens, including, but not limited to, those which
establish standards, requirements, and regulations for the licensing and
permitting of commercial cannabis activity, security, and worker protections
pursuant to the Medicinal and Adult Use Cannabis Regulation and Safety Act
(hereinafter “MAUCRSA”), and any subsequent state legislation and/or
regulations regarding same. Any standards, requirements, and regulations
established by the state or any of its departments or divisions, regarding
commercial cannabis activity shall be the minimum standards applicable within
the unincorporated area of the county.
   (B)   It is the purpose and intent of this chapter to implement the
provisions of MAUCRSA by providing a licensing scheme as a means of regulating
commercial cannabis activities, including, but not limited to, cultivation,
delivery, dispensing, distribution, manufacture, processing, propagation,
retail sale, storage, transportation, and laboratory testing, in the
unincorporated area of the county in a manner that is consistent with state law
and which balances the need to accommodate qualified patients with access to
medicinal cannabis, the interests of persons 21 years of age and older choosing
to access adult-use cannabis as authorized by the Control, Tax and Regulate the
Adult Use Cannabis Act (“AUMA” or “Proposition 64” passed by California voters
in 2016), and promotes the public health, safety, and general welfare.
   (C)   It is the further purpose and intent of this chapter to require all
cannabis business owners and operators to obtain and renew annually, a permit
to engage in certain commercial cannabis activities within the unincorporated
area of the county.
   (D)   Further, it is the purpose and intent of this chapter to impose
reasonable land use regulations to protect the county’s residents,
neighborhoods, businesses, and the environment from disproportionately negative
impacts caused by commercial cannabis activity, and to enforce rules and
regulations consistent with state law.
   (E)   Nothing in this chapter is intended, or shall be construed, to
conflict with federal or state law, and/or to authorize the possession, use, or
provision of cannabis, including any commercial cannabis activity, for purposes
that violate state law and/or in violation of this chapter. It is the stated
intent of this chapter to regulate commercial cannabis activity in the county
in compliance with all provisions of the AUMA and MAUCRSA, and any subsequent
state legislation, and for this chapter to be interpreted to be compatible with
federal and state enactments and in furtherance of the public purposes that
those enactments encompass.
   (F)   The provisions of this chapter are in addition to any other permits,
licenses, and approvals which may be required to conduct business in the
county, and are in addition to any permits, licenses, and approval required
under state, county, or other law.
(Ord. 974, § 1, 2018; Ord. 1074, § 3 (part), 2024)
§ 7.02.020 DEFINITIONS.
   When used in this chapter, the following words shall have the meanings
ascribed to them as set forth herein. Any reference to state statutes includes
any regulations promulgated thereunder and is deemed to include any successor
or amended version of the referenced statute or regulatory provision.
   ADULT-USE CANNABIS or ADULT-USE CANNABIS PRODUCT.  CANNABIS or a CANNABIS
PRODUCT, respectively, intended for adults 21 years of age and over and who do
not possess PHYSICIAN’S RECOMMENDATIONS.
   APPLICANT. An OWNER applying for a CANNABIS BUSINESS PERMIT pursuant to this
chapter.
   BATCH. A specific quantity of homogeneous CANNABIS or CANNABIS PRODUCT that
is one of the following types:
      (1)   HARVEST BATCH. A specifically identified quantity of DRIED FLOWER
or trim, leaves, and other CANNABIS plant matter that is uniform in strain,
harvested at the same time, and, if applicable, cultivated using the same
pesticides and other agricultural chemicals and harvested at the same time.
      (2)   MANUFACTURED CANNABIS BATCH. Either of the following:
         (a)   An amount of CANNABIS CONCENTRATE or extract that is produced in
one production cycle using the same extraction methods and standard operating
procedures.
         (b)   An amount of a type of MANUFACTURED CANNABIS produced in one
production cycle using the same formulation and standard operating procedures.
   CANNABIS. All parts of the Cannabis Sativa Linnaeus, Cannabis Indica, or
Cannabis Ruderalis, whether growing or not; the seeds thereof; the resin,
whether crude or purified, extracted from any part of the plant; and every
compound, MANUFACTURE, salt, derivative, mixture, or preparation of the plant,
its seeds, or resin. CANNABIS also means the separated resin, whether crude or
purified, obtained from CANNABIS. CANNABIS does not include the mature stalks
of the plant, fiber produced from the stalks, oil or cake made from the seeds
of the plant, any other compound, MANUFACTURE, salt, derivative, mixture, or
preparation of the mature stalks (except the resin extracted therefrom), fiber,
oil, or cake, or the sterilized seed of the plant which is incapable of
germination. For the purpose of this chapter, CANNABIS does not mean
“industrial hemp” as defined by Cal. Health and Safety Code § 11018.5.
   CANNABIS ACCESSORIES. Any equipment, products, or materials of any kind
which are used, intended for use, or designed for use, in planting,
propagating, cultivating, growing, harvesting, manufacturing, compounding,
converting, producing, PROCESSING, preparing, testing, analyzing, packaging,
repackaging, storing, smoking, vaporizing, or containing CANNABIS, or for
ingesting, inhaling, or otherwise introducing CANNABIS GOODS into the human
body.
   CANNABIS BUSINESS. Any business or OPERATION which engages in any medicinal
or adult-use COMMERCIAL CANNABIS ACTIVITY. CANNABIS BUSINESS also means the
location at which a person engages in COMMERCIAL CANNABIS ACTIVITIES.
   CANNABIS BUSINESS PERMIT. A regulatory permit issued by the COUNTY pursuant
to this chapter to a STATE LICENSED CANNABIS BUSINESS to engage in those
COMMERCIAL CANNABIS ACTIVITIES authorized by the permit; and is required before
any CANNABIS BUSINESS may conduct any COMMERCIAL CANNABIS ACTIVITY in the
COUNTY. The CANNABIS BUSINESS PERMIT, and any annual renewal, is made expressly
contingent upon the CANNABIS BUSINESS’ ongoing compliance with all requirements
of this chapter and any regulations adopted by the COUNTY governing the
specified type of COMMERCIAL CANNABIS ACTIVITY.
   CANNABIS BUSINESS SITE. A fixed location, under the control of a STATE
LICENSED CANNABIS BUSINESS where the CANNABIS BUSINESS is LOCALLY AUTHORIZED to
ENGAGE IN COMMERCIAL CANNABIS ACTIVITY.
   CANNABIS CONCENTRATE.  CANNABIS that has undergone a PROCESS to concentrate
one or more active cannabinoids, thereby increasing the product’s potency.
Resin from granular trichomes from a CANNABIS plant is a concentrate for
purposes of this division. A CANNABIS CONCENTRATE is not considered food as
defined by Cal. Health and Safety Code § 109935, or drug as defined by Cal.
Health and Safety Code § 109925.
   CANNABIS COORDINATOR. The County Administrative Officer, or his/her designee
(s), responsible for:
      (1)   The issuance, renewal, or reinstatement of CANNABIS BUSINESS
PERMITS; and
      (2)   Authorized to initiate and/or take disciplinary and/or enforcement
action against a PERMITTEE.
   CANNABIS GOODS. Both CANNABIS and/or CANNABIS PRODUCTS.
   CANNABIS PRODUCTS.  CANNABIS that has undergone a PROCESS whereby the plant
material has been transformed into a concentrate, including, but not limited
to, CONCENTRATED CANNABIS, or an edible or TOPICAL product containing CANNABIS,
or CONCENTRATED CANNABIS and other ingredients. CANNABIS PRODUCTS shall also
mean medicinal concentrates and MEDICINAL CANNABIS PRODUCTS.
   CANOPY. The designated area(s) at a STATE LICENSED CANNABIS BUSINESS SITE
that will contain LIVE CANNABIS PLANTS at any point in time, as follows:
      (1)   CANOPY shall be calculated in square feet and measured using
clearly identifiable boundaries of all areas(s) that will contain LIVE CANNABIS
PLANTS at any point in time, including all of the space(s) within the
boundaries;
      (2)   CANOPY may be noncontiguous but each unique area included in the
total CANOPY calculation shall be separated by an identifiable boundary which
includes, but is not limited to, interior walls, shelves, GREENHOUSE walls,
HOOP HOUSE walls, garden benches, hedgerows, fencing, garden beds, or garden
plots; and
      (3)   If LIVE CANNABIS PLANTS are being cultivated using a shelving
system, the surface area of each level shall be included in the total CANOPY
calculation.
   CAREGIVER or PRIMARY CAREGIVER. Has the same meaning as that term is defined
in Cal. Health and Safety Code § 11362.7.
   CHILD RESISTANT. Designed or constructed to be significantly difficult for
children under five years of age to open, and not difficult for average adults
to use properly.
   COMMERCIAL CANNABIS ACTIVITY or CANNABIS BUSINESS ACTIVITY. Includes the
CULTIVATION, possession, MANUFACTURE, DISTRIBUTION, PROCESSING, storing,
laboratory testing, packaging, LABELING, transportation, DELIVERY, dispensing,
or SALE of CANNABIS and/or CANNABIS PRODUCTS as provided for in this chapter.
   COUNTY OF SAN BENITO or COUNTY. The COUNTY OF SAN BENITO, as a political
subdivision of the State of California or entity, and/or as related to the land
or jurisdiction to which this chapter applies, means the unincorporated area of
the COUNTY OF SAN BENITO.
   CULTIVATION. Any activity involving the PROPAGATION, planting, growing,
harvesting, drying, curing, grading, or trimming of CANNABIS.
   CULTIVATION SITE. A fixed location, under the control of a CULTIVATOR or
MICROBUSINESS, where CANNABIS is cultivated.
   CULTIVATOR. A STATE LICENSED CANNABIS BUSINESS that is LOCALLY AUTHORIZED to
engage in the CULTIVATION of CANNABIS.
   CUSTOMER. A natural person 21 years of age or older, or a natural person 18
years of age or older who possesses a PHYSICIAN’S RECOMMENDATION, or a PRIMARY
CAREGIVER who is engaged in a transaction with a RETAILER or MICROBUSINESS for
purposes of obtaining CANNABIS GOODS, specifically, to purchase.
   DELIVERY or DELIVER. The commercial transfer of CANNABIS GOODS from a STATE
LICENSED RETAILER or STATE LICENSED MICROBUSINESS to a CUSTOMER or PURCHASER at
a physical address. DELIVERY also includes the use by a RETAILER of any
technology platform, whether or not owned and controlled by the RETAILER.
   DELIVERY EMPLOYEE. An individual employed by a RETAILER or MICROBUSINESS,
including an OUT OF COUNTY DELIVERY SERVICE, who DELIVERS CANNABIS GOODS from
the authorized CANNABIS BUSINESS SITE of the RETAILER or MICROBUSINESS to a
CUSTOMER or PURCHASER at a physical address.
   DELIVERY VEHICLE. Any motor vehicle operated by a DELIVERY EMPLOYEE.
   DEPARTMENT OF CANNABIS CONTROL. The Department of Cannabis Control within
the Department of Consumer Affairs, formerly named the Bureau of Cannabis
Control, the Bureau of Marijuana Control, the Bureau of Medical Cannabis
Regulation, and the Bureau of Medical Marijuana Regulation.
   DISTRIBUTION. The procurement, SALE, and TRANSPORT of CANNABIS GOODS between
STATE LICENSED CANNABIS BUSINESSES that are LOCALLY AUTHORIZED to ENGAGE IN
COMMERCIAL CANNABIS ACTIVITY.
   DISTRIBUTION EMPLOYEE. An individual employed by a DISTRIBUTOR or
MICROBUSINESS who TRANSPORTS CANNABIS GOODS from one CANNABIS BUSINESS SITE to
another CANNABIS BUSINESS SITE.
   DISTRIBUTION VEHICLE. Any motor vehicle operated by a DISTRIBUTION EMPLOYEE.
   DISTRIBUTOR. A STATE LICENSED CANNABIS BUSINESS that is LOCALLY AUTHORIZED
to engage in the DISTRIBUTION of CANNABIS GOODS.
   DRIED FLOWER. All dead CANNABIS that has been harvested, dried, cured, or
otherwise PROCESSED, excluding leaves and stems.
   EDIBLE CANNABIS PRODUCT.  CANNABIS PRODUCT that is intended to be used, in
whole or in part, for human consumption, including, but not limited to, chewing
gum, but excluding products set forth in Cal. Food and Agricultural Code
Division 15 (commencing with § 32501). An EDIBLE CANNABIS PRODUCT is not
considered food as defined by Cal. Health and Safety Code § 109935, or a drug
as defined by Cal. Health and Safety Code § 109925.
   EMPLOYEE. An individual employed by a STATE LICENSED CANNABIS BUSINESS that
is LOCALLY AUTHORIZED to ENGAGE IN COMMERCIAL CANNABIS ACTIVITY.
   ENFORCING OFFICER. The San Benito County Administrative Officer, Health
Officer, Director of Planning and Building, Sheriff, or Agricultural
Commissioner, or their authorized deputy(ies) or designee(s), or any person
employed by the COUNTY and appointed to the position of CANNABIS COORDINATOR,
or any person employed by the COUNTY and appointed to the position of Code
Enforcement Officer, as established by Resolution No. 90-27 and Ordinances 567
and 625, each of whom is independently authorized to enforce this chapter.
   ENGAGE IN COMMERCIAL CANNABIS ACTIVITY.
      (1)   The commencing, conducting, operating, managing, or carrying on of
a CANNABIS BUSINESS, and the exercise of corporate or franchise powers, whether
done as OWNER, or by means of an officer, agent, manager, EMPLOYEE, or
otherwise, whether operating from a fixed location in the unincorporated area
of the COUNTY or coming into the unincorporated area of the COUNTY from an
outside location to ENGAGE IN CANNABIS BUSINESS ACTIVITIES. A person shall be
deemed ENGAGED IN CANNABIS BUSINESS ACTIVITIES within the COUNTY if:
         (a)   Such person or person’s EMPLOYEE maintains a fixed place of
business within the unincorporated area of the COUNTY for the benefit or
partial benefit of such person;
         (b)   Such person or person’s EMPLOYEE owns or leases real property
within the unincorporated area of the COUNTY for business purposes;
         (c)   Such person or person’s EMPLOYEE regularly maintains a stock of
tangible personal property in the unincorporated area of COUNTY for SALE in the
ordinary course of business;
         (d)   Such person or person’s EMPLOYEE regularly conducts solicitation
of business within the unincorporated area of the COUNTY;
         (e)   Such person or person’s EMPLOYEE performs work or renders
services in the unincorporated area of the COUNTY; and
         (f)   Such person or person’s EMPLOYEE utilizes the streets within the
unincorporated area of the COUNTY in connection with the operation of motor
vehicles for business purposes.
      (2)   The foregoing specified CANNABIS BUSINESS ACTIVITIES shall not be a
limitation on the meaning of ENGAGED IN COMMERCIAL CANNABIS ACTIVITY.
   FLOWERING. That a CANNABIS plant has formed a mass of pistils measuring
greater than one-half inch wide at its widest point.
   GREENHOUSE. A partially or completely enclosed structure whose structural
members are made of pre-formed, rigid materials, or structural membranes. The
walls, roof, and ends are typically covered using a transparent material, often
glass, and which allows solar radiation to penetrate the surface and affect the
growing environment of plants.
   HOOP HOUSE. A structure with structural members which are made of flexible
and somewhat rigid construction materials, typically PVC pipe or similar
material. The ends may be covered or left open and the material covering the
structural members is readily removable and is typically removed and re-affixed
frequently.
   IMMATURE PLANT. A CANNABIS plant that is nonflowering and is shorter and/or
narrower than 18 inches.
   INDOOR CULTIVATION.  CULTIVATION that is conducted within a fully enclosed,
permitted building or structure, accessible only through one or more locking
doors, which is secure against unauthorized entry, and which uses artificial
light.
   LABELING. Any label or other written, printed, or graphic matter upon a
CANNABIS GOOD, upon its container or wrapper, or that accompanies any CANNABIS
GOOD.
   LABOR PEACE AGREEMENT. An agreement between a STATE LICENSEE and any bona
fide labor organization that, at a minimum, protects the state’s proprietary
interests by prohibiting labor organizations and members from engaging in
picketing, work stoppages, boycotts, and any other economic interference with
the APPLICANT’S business. This agreement means that the APPLICANT has agreed
not to disrupt efforts by the bona fide labor organization to communicate with,
and attempt to organize and represent the APPLICANT’S EMPLOYEES. The agreement
shall provide a bona fide labor organization access at reasonable times to
areas in which the APPLICANT’S EMPLOYEES work, for the purpose of meeting with
EMPLOYEES to discuss their right to representation, employment rights under
state law, and terms and conditions of employment. This type of agreement shall
not mandate a particular method of election or certification of the bona fide
labor organization.
   LEGAL PARCEL. A parcel of real property for which one legal title exists
that may be separately sold in compliance with the Subdivision Map Act, Cal.
Government Code Title 7, Division 2 (commencing with § 66410).
   LIMITED ACCESS AREA. An area in which CANNABIS GOODS, cash, business
records, surveillance equipment, and the ability to control or monitor the
surveillance equipment is/are stored or held and is only accessible to
PERMITTEE’S authorized personnel.
   LIVE CANNABIS PLANTS. Living CANNABIS flowers and plants, including seeds,
IMMATURE PLANTS, and vegetative stage plants.
   LOCAL JURISDICTION OF ORIGIN. A city, county, or city and county within the
state.
   LOCALLY AUTHORIZED. A city, county, or city and county within the state that
has issued a permit, license, or the like to any STATE LICENSED CANNABIS
BUSINESS to ENGAGE IN COMMERCIAL CANNABIS ACTIVITY within that jurisdiction.
   LOT. A BATCH or a specifically identified portion of a BATCH.
   MANUFACTURE. To produce, prepare, PROPAGATE, or compound, or otherwise
blend, extract, or infuse CANNABIS and/or a CANNABIS PRODUCT, either directly
or indirectly, or by extraction methods, or independently by means of chemical
synthesis, or by a combination of extraction and chemical synthesis.
   MANUFACTURED CANNABIS.  RAW CANNABIS that has undergone a PROCESS whereby
the RAW CANNABIS has been transformed into a concentrate, extract, or other
manufactured product intended for either internal consumption, through
inhalation or oral ingestion, or for TOPICAL application.
   MANUFACTURER. A STATE LICENSED CANNABIS BUSINESS that is LOCALLY AUTHORIZED
to conduct the production, preparation, PROPAGATION, or compounding of CANNABIS
GOODS, either directly or indirectly, or by extraction methods, or
independently by means of chemical synthesis, or by a combination of extraction
and chemical synthesis at a fixed location that packages or repackages CANNABIS
GOODS, or LABELS or re-labels its container.
   MANUFACTURING EMPLOYEE. An individual employed by a MANUFACTURER or
MICROBUSINESS who is engaged in the performance or supervision of OPERATIONS at
a MANUFACTURING SITE.
   MANUFACTURING SITE. A fixed location, under the control of a MANUFACTURER or
MICROBUSINESS where CANNABIS GOODS are MANUFACTURED.
   MATURE PLANT. A CANNABIS plant capable of producing the CANNABIS flower or
is FLOWERING, and is at least 18 inches tall and/or wide.
   MAUCRSA. The Medicinal and Adult-Use Cannabis Regulation and Safety Act,
Cal. Business and Professions Code §§ 26000 et seq.
   MEDICINAL CANNABIS or MEDICINAL CANNABIS PRODUCT.  CANNABIS or a CANNABIS
PRODUCT, respectively, intended to be sold for use pursuant to the
Compassionate Use Act of 1996 (Proposition 215), found at Cal. Health and
Safety Code § 11362.5, by a MEDICINAL CANNABIS PATIENT in the state who
possesses a valid PHYSICIAN’S RECOMMENDATION.
   MICROBUSINESS. A STATE LICENSED CANNABIS BUSINESS that is LOCALLY AUTHORIZED
to engage in the CULTIVATION of CANNABIS on an area less than 10,000 square
feet, and may additionally act as any three of the following: a STATE LICENSED,
LOCALLY AUTHORIZED DISTRIBUTOR, CULTIVATOR, Level 1 MANUFACTURER, or RETAILER
under state law, provided such licensee can demonstrate compliance with all
requirements imposed by state law on licensed CULTIVATORS, DISTRIBUTORS, Level
1 MANUFACTURERS, and RETAILERS to the extent the licensee engages in such
activities. MICROBUSINESS licenses that authorize CULTIVATION of CANNABIS shall
include the license conditions described in Cal. Business and Professions Code
§ 26060.1(b).
   MIXED-LIGHT CULTIVATION.  CULTIVATION of CANNABIS using light deprivation,
and both natural and/or artificial lighting during the growing cycle, and is
conducted within a GREENHOUSE, HOOP HOUSE, or other similar structure.
   MIXED-LIGHT TIER 1.  CULTIVATION of CANNABIS without the use of artificial
light or the use of artificial light at a rate above zero, but no more than six
watts per square foot.
   MIXED-LIGHT TIER 2.  CULTIVATION of CANNABIS using artificial light at a
rate above six and below or equal to 25 watts per square foot.
   NON-VOLATILE SOLVENT. Any solvent used in the extraction PROCESS that is not
a VOLATILE SOLVENT as defined in Cal. Health and Safety Code § 11362.3(b)(3).
NON-VOLATILE SOLVENT includes carbon dioxide (CO2) used for extraction and
ethanol, when used for extraction or post-extraction PROCESSING.
   NURSERY. A CULTIVATOR that produces only clones, IMMATURE PLANTS, seeds, and
other agricultural products used specifically for the PROPAGATION and
CULTIVATION of CANNABIS.
   OPERATION. Any activity for which a STATE LICENSE and a CANNABIS BUSINESS
PERMIT is required under the provisions of this chapter, including any
commercial transfer, including, but not limited to, DELIVERY or DISTRIBUTION of
CANNABIS GOODS.
   OUT OF COUNTY DELIVERY SERVICE. A STATE LICENSED RETAILER or MICROBUSINESS
that:
      (1)   Is LOCALLY AUTHORIZED to engage in the RETAIL SALE and DELIVERY of
CANNABIS GOODS, and whose place of business, main office, or center of
OPERATIONS is located outside the unincorporated area of the COUNTY; and
      (2)   DELIVERS CANNABIS GOODS to a CUSTOMER within the COUNTY, OUT OF
COUNTY DISTRIBUTORS, A STATE LICENSED DISTRIBUTOR, or MICROBUSINESS that:
         (a)   Is LOCALLY AUTHORIZED to engage in the DISTRIBUTION of CANNABIS
GOODS, and whose place of business, main office, or center of OPERATIONS is
located outside the unincorporated area of the COUNTY; and
         (b)   TRANSPORTS CANNABIS GOODS to or from an authorized CANNABIS
BUSINESS SITE.
   OUTDOOR CULTIVATION. Any commercial CANNABIS CULTIVATION with or without the
use of light deprivation and/or artificial lighting in the CANOPY area, and
that is not conducted within a fully enclosed, permitted building, accessible
only through one or more locking doors, which is secure against unauthorized
entry. OUTDOOR CULTIVATION includes, without limitation, CULTIVATION of
CANNABIS within a HOOP HOUSE or similar structure.
   OWNER. Any of the following:
      (1)   A person with an aggregate ownership interest of 20% or more in the
person applying for a CANNABIS BUSINESS PERMIT or a PERMITTEE, unless the
interest is solely a security, lien, or encumbrance;
      (2)   The Chief Executive Officer, or other manager, of a nonprofit or
other entity;
      (3)   A member of the Board of Directors of a nonprofit; or
      (4)   An individual who will be participating in the direction, control,
or management of the business applying for a CANNABIS BUSINESS PERMIT, or who
has a financial interest in the business other than a fixed lease of real
property.
   PACKAGE. Any container or receptacle used for holding CANNABIS GOODS.
   PATIENT or QUALIFIED PATIENT. Shall have the same definition as Cal. Health
and Safety Code §§ 11362.7 et seq., as it may be amended, and which means a
person who is entitled to the protections of Cal. Health and Safety Code §
11362.5. For purposes of this chapter, QUALIFIED PATIENT shall also refer to
QUALIFIED PATIENTS who have obtained an identification card from the State
Department of Health Services via a local county health department, as that
term is defined by Cal. Health and Safety Code §§ 11362.7 et seq.
   PERMITTEE or PERMITTED CANNABIS BUSINESS. Any person holding a valid
CANNABIS BUSINESS PERMIT issued by the COUNTY pursuant to this chapter.
   PERMITTING AUTHORITY. The county department that is responsible for the
issuance, renewal, or reinstatement of the CANNABIS BUSINESS PERMIT, and
authorized to take disciplinary action against the PERMITTEE.
   PERSON. Includes any individual, firm, partnership, joint venture,
association, corporation, limited liability company, estate, trust, business,
business trust, receiver, syndicate, collective, cooperative, or any other
group or entity, or combination acting as a unit, and the plural as well as the
singular.
   PHYSICIAN’S RECOMMENDATION. A recommendation by a physician and surgeon that
a PATIENT use CANNABIS provided in accordance with the Compassionate Use Act of
1996 (Proposition 215), found at Cal. Health and Safety Code § 11362.5.
   PREMISES. The designated structure(s) and land of a LEGAL PARCEL specified
in the application that is owned, leased, used, possessed, or otherwise held
under the control of the APPLICANT or PERMITTEE where the COMMERCIAL CANNABIS
ACTIVITY will be or is conducted. The PREMISES shall be a contiguous area and
shall only be occupied by one PERMITTEE.
   PROCESS or PROCESSING or PROCESSOR.  COMMERCIAL CANNABIS ACTIVITY associated
with curing, drying, grading, LABELING, packaging, or trimming of raw or non-
manufactured CANNABIS GOODS.
   PROCESSING SITE. A CULTIVATION SITE that conducts only trimming, drying,
curing, grading, packaging, or LABELING of raw or non-manufactured CANNABIS
GOODS.
   PROPAGATE or PROPAGATION. To CULTIVATE IMMATURE PLANTS from CANNABIS plant
cuttings or seeds.
   PROPERTY OWNER. The person who is the record OWNER of the subject real
property where the CANNABIS BUSINESS is located and the OPERATIONS thereof
occur or are proposed to occur.
   PURCHASER. The CUSTOMER who is engaged in a transaction with a PERMITTEE for
purposes of obtaining CANNABIS GOODS.
   RAW CANNABIS. Shall include CANNABIS flowers, CANNABIS leaves, or other
categories of harvested CANNABIS, categories for unprocessed or frozen CANNABIS
or IMMATURE PLANTS, or CANNABIS that is shipped directly to MANUFACTURERS.
   RETAIL. Both STOREFRONT and NON-STOREFRONT RETAIL as follows:
      (1)   NON-STOREFRONT RETAIL. The RETAIL SALE and DELIVERY of commercial
CANNABIS GOODS to CUSTOMERS from vehicular DELIVERY only.
      (2)   STOREFRONT RETAIL. The RETAIL SALE and DELIVERY of commercial
CANNABIS GOODS to CUSTOMERS from either:
         (a)   A physical location where the CANNABIS BUSINESS is authorized to
conduct COMMERCIAL CANNABIS ACTIVITY; or
         (b)   Vehicular DELIVERY.
   RETAILER. A STATE LICENSED CANNABIS BUSINESS that it LOCALLY AUTHORIZED to
engage in the RETAIL SALE and DELIVERY of CANNABIS GOODS.
   SELL, SALE, and TO SELL. Includes any transaction whereby, for any
consideration, title to CANNABIS GOODS is transferred from one person to
another, and includes the DELIVERY of CANNABIS GOODS pursuant to an order
placed for the purchase of the same and soliciting or receiving an order for
the same, but does not include the return of CANNABIS GOODS by a licensee to
the licensee from whom the CANNABIS GOODS was purchased.
   SENSITIVE USE. Any of the following:
      (1)   CHURCH. A structure or leased portion of a structure, which is used
primarily for religious worship and related religious activities;
      (2)   Licensed child care facility;
      (3)   Licensed child care home;
      (4)   LICENSED CHILD DAY CARE FACILITY. A facility that provides non-
medical care to children under 18 years of age in need of personal services,
supervision, or assistance essential for sustaining the activities of daily
living or for the protection of the individual on less than a 24-hour basis.
CHILD DAY CARE FACILITY includes:
         (a)   DAY CARE CENTER. Any CHILD DAY CARE FACILITY other than a FAMILY
DAY CARE HOME, and includes infant centers, preschools, extended day care
facilities, and school-age child care centers;
         (b)    EMPLOYER-SPONSORED CHILD CARE CENTER. Any CHILD DAY CARE
FACILITY at an employer’s site of business operated directly or through a
provider contract by any person or entity having one or more EMPLOYEES, and
available exclusively for the care of children of that employer, and of the
officers, managers, and EMPLOYEES of that employer, unless the EMPLOYER-
SPONSORED CHILD CARE CENTER is operated by the Commercial Cannabis licensee for
the purpose of providing child care to their employees;
         (c)   FAMILY DAY CARE HOME. A home that regularly provides care,
protection, and supervision for 14 or fewer children, in the provider’s own
home, for periods of less than 24 hours per day, while the parents or guardians
are away, and is either a large FAMILY DAY CARE HOME or a small FAMILY DAY CARE
HOME;
      (5)   SCHOOL. An institution of learning for minors, whether public,
private, or charter, offering a regular course of instruction required by the
California Education Code, or any licensed CHILD or DAY CARE FACILITY. This
definition includes a nursery school, pre-school, transitional kindergarten,
kindergarten, elementary school, middle or junior high school, senior high
school, or any special institution of education, but it does not include a
vocational or professional institution of higher education, including a
community or junior college, college or university;
      (6)   SCHOOL EVACUATION SITE. Any location designated by formal action of
the governing body, superintendent, or principal of any SCHOOL as a location to
which juveniles are to be evacuated to, or are to assemble at, in the event of
an emergency or other incident at the SCHOOL;
      (7)   YOUTH CENTER. Any public or private facility that is primarily used
to host recreation or social activities for minors, including, but not limited
to:
         (a)   Private youth membership organizations or clubs, social service
teenage club facilities, video arcades where ten or more video games or game
machines or devices are operated and where minors are legally permitted to
conduct business, or similar amusement park facilities;
         (b)   A park, playground, or recreational area specifically designed
to be used by children which has play equipment installed, including public
grounds designed for athletic activities such as baseball, softball, soccer, or
basketball, or any similar facility located on a public or private school
grounds, or on city, county, or state parks;
         (c)   This definition shall not include any private martial arts,
yoga, ballet, music, art studio or similar studio of this nature nor shall it
include any private gym, athletic training facility, pizza parlor, dentist’s
office or doctor’s office, primarily serving children, or a location which is
primarily utilized as an administrative office or facility for youth programs
or organizations; and
      (8)   YOUTH-ORIENTED FACILITY. Elementary school, middle school, high
school, public park, any establishment that advertises in a manner that
identifies the establishment as catering to or providing services primarily
intended for minors, or the individuals who regularly patronize, congregate, or
assemble at the establishment are predominately minors.
   STATE LICENSE. A license issued by the State of California, or one of its
departments or divisions, including the Department of Cannabis Control, under
MAUCRSA and any subsequent state legislation regarding the same, authorizing
the holder to ENGAGE IN COMMERCIAL CANNABIS ACTIVITY.
   STATE LICENSEE or STATE LICENSED. A person to whom a STATE LICENSE has been
issued, authorizing that person to ENGAGE IN COMMERCIAL CANNABIS ACTIVITY.
   TESTING LABORATORY. A STATE LICENSED laboratory, facility, or entity that
offers or performs tests of CANNABIS GOODS and that is:
      (1)   Accredited by an accrediting body that is independent from all
other persons involved in COMMERCIAL CANNABIS ACTIVITY in the state; and
      (2)   Authorized by the COUNTY to engage in laboratory testing of
CANNABIS GOODS via a valid CANNABIS BUSINESS PERMIT.
   TOPICAL or TOPICAL CANNABIS. A product intended for external application
and/or absorption through the skin. A TOPICAL CANNABIS product is not
considered a drug as defined by Cal. Health and Safety Code § 109925.
   TRANSPORT. The physical movement of CANNABIS GOODS from one authorized
CANNABIS BUSINESS SITE to another authorized CANNABIS BUSINESS SITE, for the
purposes of conducting COMMERCIAL CANNABIS ACTIVITY authorized by MAUCRSA which
may be amended or repealed by any subsequent state legislation regarding the
same. TRANSPORT does not include DELIVERY.
   UNIQUE IDENTIFIER. An alphanumeric code or designation used for reference to
a specific CANNABIS plant on a STATE LICENSED PREMISES and any CANNABIS GOODS
derived or MANUFACTURED from that plant.
   VOLATILE SOLVENT. Any solvent that is or produces a flammable gas or vapor
that, when present in the air in sufficient quantities, will create explosive
or ignitable mixtures. Examples of VOLATILE SOLVENTS include, but are not
limited to, butane, hexane, and propane.
(Ord. 974, § 1, 2018; Ord. 1036, § 2, 2021; Ord. 1074, § 3 (part), 2024)
§ 7.02.030 PROHIBITIONS; RESTRICTION ON ALCOHOL AND TOBACCO.
   (A)   Commercial cannabis activities prohibited unless specifically
authorized. Except as specifically authorized in this chapter, commercial
cannabis activities are expressly prohibited in the county.
   (B)   Prohibited commercial cannabis activities. It is a violation of this
chapter, and shall constitute a public nuisance, for any person or entity to
engage in any of the following commercial cannabis activities, which are
expressly prohibited:
      (1)   Outdoor cultivation within the exclusion zone defined in §
7.04.003; and
      (2)   Special events, held for the purpose of marketing cannabis goods,
as described in Cal. Business and Professions Code § 26150(e).
   (C)   Compliance with laws. It is unlawful and shall constitute a public
nuisance for anyone to engage in any commercial cannabis activity within the
county without complying with all applicable state and local laws and
regulations pertaining to the cannabis business and the commercial cannabis
activities, including the duty to obtain all of the following:
      (1)   A valid cannabis business permit; and
      (2)   A valid state license; and
      (3)   A valid state seller’s permit.
   (D)   Persons prohibited from holding permit(s) under this chapter. The
persons set forth in §
7.02.070(A) shall be prohibited from holding a cannabis business permit in the
county.
   (E)   Restriction on alcohol and tobacco.
      (1)   No person shall cause or permit the sale, dispensing, or
consumption of alcoholic beverages on or about the premises of the cannabis
business.
      (2)   No person shall cause or permit the sale or tobacco products on or
about the premises of the cannabis business.
      (3)   No person shall consume any cannabis good, tobacco, or alcohol at
any cannabis business site.
(Ord. 974, § 1, 2018; Ord. 1032, § 2, 2021; Ord. 1036, § 3, 2021; Ord. 1074, §
3 (part), 2024)
§ 7.02.040 CANNABIS BUSINESS REGULATORY PROGRAM.
   (A)   There is hereby created the cannabis business regulatory program which
shall be administered by the County Administrative Officer or his/her designee
(s).
   (B)   The permit issued under the cannabis business regulatory program is a
cannabis business permit.
   (C)   The Administrative Officer or his/her designee(s) shall be authorized
to build and manage the cannabis business regulatory program, including, but
not limited to, preparing the necessary forms, promulgating any necessary
rules, regulations, and standards governing application requirements and
processes, soliciting applications, conducting evaluations of the cannabis
business applicants and otherwise implementing the cannabis business permit and
processes and requirements.
   (D)   Promulgation of rules, regulations, and standards.
      (1)   Rules, regulations, and/or standards governing the issuance,
denial, renewal, suspension, and/or revocation of cannabis business permits may
be promulgated by the Board of Supervisors and shall become effective in
accordance with applicable laws.
      (2)   In addition, the Administrative Officer or his/her designee(s) is
authorized to establish any additional rules, regulations, and/or standards
governing the same, including, but not limited to, the ongoing operation and
county’s oversight of cannabis businesses, and/or concerning any other subject
determined to be necessary to carry out the purposes of this chapter and shall
become effective upon publication on the county’s website.
      (3)   Cannabis businesses shall be required to comply with all state and
local laws and rules, regulations, and standards, including, but not limited
to, those promulgated by the Administrative Officer or his/her designee(s).
      (4)   Testing laboratories, distribution facilities, and out of county
distributors shall be subject to state law and shall be subject to additional
county regulations as determined from time to time as more regulations are
developed under §
7.02.010 and any subsequent state legislation regarding the same.
(Ord. 974, § 1, 2018; Ord. 1036, § 4, 2021; Ord. 1074, § 3 (part), 2024)
§ 7.02.050 CANNABIS BUSINESS PERMIT.
   (A)   Permit required. No person may operate any cannabis business or engage
in any commercial cannabis activity within the county unless the person has, at
a minimum, complied with all applicable state and local laws and regulations
pertaining to the cannabis business and the commercial cannabis activities,
including, but not limited to, the duty to obtain all of the following:
      (1)   A valid cannabis business permit;
      (2)   A valid state license; and
      (3)   A valid state seller’s permit.
   (B)   No cannabis business permit will be issued to any person set forth in
§
7.02.030(D).
   (C)   Permit type. The following cannabis business permits are created under
this chapter:
County Cannabis Business Permit Types State License Types (includes both A-
                                      Licenses and M- Licenses)*
County Cannabis Business Permit Types State License Types (includes both A-
                                      Licenses and M- Licenses)*
Cultivation***                        Specialty Cottage, Specialty, Small,
                                      Medium, Large, Nursery, and Processor
Distribution                          11, 13
Manufacturing                         6, 7, N, P, and S
Testing                               8
Retailer**                            9, 10
Microbusiness                         12
* Pursuant to definitions in Cal. Business and Professions Code § 26050 and
Cal. Code of Regulations Title 4 Division 19.
** Number of permits may be limited as set forth in this chapter.
*** Includes Outdoor, and Mixed-Light (Tier 1 and Tier 2) Licenses
 
   (D)   Number of permits and canopy limits. The maximum canopy area of each
cannabis business type and the corresponding number of cannabis business
permits issued by the county may be limited or restricted, and shall be
established by resolution and/or ordinance by the Board of Supervisors. The
maximum number of canopy area and cannabis business permits shall be subject to
the Board’s annual review; The Board of Supervisors may, in their discretion,
modify the maximum canopy area and cannabis business permits authorized for
issuance. This section is only intended to create a maximum number of canopy
area and each cannabis business type operating in the county. Nothing in this
chapter obligates the Board of Supervisors to issue any or all of the available
cannabis business permits if it is determined that:
      (1)   Applicants do not meet the application requirements; or
      (2)   Issuance of any or all cannabis business permits will detrimentally
impact the public health, safety, or welfare, or any other public policy
concern.
   (E)   The number of permits issued for storefront retail cannabis businesses
shall be limited to five, and shall be permitted in accordance with
Ch. 19.43.
   (F)   Total canopy limits for all commercial cultivation activities in the
entirety of San Benito County shall be a maximum of 500 acres as of January 1,
2025. For the following three years the total canopy limits shall increase an
additional 500 acres per year, not to exceed 2,000 acres of total canopy after
January 1, 2028.
   (G)   Expiration. Each cannabis business permit issued pursuant to this
chapter shall only be valid for a term of 12 months and shall expire 12 months
after the date of its issuance, unless suspended or revoked by the county
pursuant to §
7.02.070. A cannabis business permit may be renewed as provided in §
7.02.054.
(Ord. 974, § 1, 2018; Ord. 1032, § 3, 4, 2021; Ord. 1036, § 5, 2021; Ord. 1074,
§ 3 (part), 2024)
§ 7.02.051 APPLICATION REVIEW PROCEDURE; RESERVATION OF RIGHTS.
   (A)   The Board of Supervisors shall adopt a resolution and/or ordinance
setting forth procedures which govern the application process.
      (1)   Applications shall be submitted to the Planning and Building
Department. Application requirements are determined pursuant to
Chapter 19.43 and are at the discretion of the Administrative Officer or his/
her designee(s).
   (B)   At the time of filing, each applicant shall pay an application fee
established by resolution and/or ordinance of the Board of Supervisors to cover
all costs incurred by the county in the application process.
   (C)   Appeals. Appeals from the decision of the Administrative Officer or
his/her designee(s) shall be handled pursuant to §
7.02.080.
   (D)   The county’s reservation of rights. The county reserves the right to
reject or deny any or all applications if it determines it would be in the best
interest of the county, taking into account any health, safety, and welfare
impacts on the community. Applicants shall have no right to a cannabis business
permit until a permit is actually issued, and then only for as long as the
permit is valid. Each applicant assumes the risk that, at any time prior to the
issuance of a permit, the Board of Supervisors may terminate or delay the
cannabis business regulatory program created under this chapter. Prior to
permit issuance, the county may also modify, postpone, or cancel any request
for applications, or the entire cannabis business regulatory program under this
chapter, at any time without liability, obligation, or commitment to any party,
firm, or organization, to the extent permitted under state law. Persons
submitting applications assume the risk that the cannabis business regulatory
program, or any part thereof, or any particular type of commercial cannabis
activity permit potentially authorized under this chapter, may be cancelled at
any time prior to permit issuance. The county further reserves the right to
request and obtain additional information from any applicant. In addition to
any other justification provided, an application risks being rejected or denied
for any of the following reasons:
      (1)   Failure to comply with the requirements in this chapter;
      (2)   Proposal received after designated time and date;
      (3)   Proposal not containing the required elements, exhibits, nor
organized in the required format; or
      (4)   Proposal considered not fully responsive to this request for permit
application.
(Ord. 974, § 1, 2018; Ord. 1036, § 6, 2021; Ord. 1074, § 3 (part), 2024)
§ 7.02.052 [RESERVED.]
§ 7.02.053 CANNABIS BUSINESS PERMIT ISSUANCE.
   (A)   Official issuance of a cannabis business permit is conditioned upon
the following:
      (1)   Applicant shall execute an agreement, in a form approved by the
County Counsel, agreeing to indemnify, defend (at applicant’s sole cost and
expense), and hold the county and its officers, officials, employees,
representatives, and agents, harmless from any and all claims, losses, damages,
injuries, liabilities, or losses which arise out of, or which are in any way
related to, the county’s issuance of the cannabis business permit, the county’s
decision to approve the operation of the cannabis business or activity, the
process used by the county in making its decision, or the alleged violation of
any federal, state, or local laws by the cannabis business or any of its
officers, employees, or agents.
      (2)   Applicant shall maintain insurance at coverage limits and with
conditions thereon determined necessary and appropriate from time to time by
the Administrative Officer or his/her designee(s).
      (3)   Applicant shall execute an agreement, in a form approved by the
County Counsel, agreeing to reimburse the county for all costs and expenses,
including but not limited to legal fees and costs and court costs, which the
county may be required to pay as a result of any legal challenge related to the
county’s approval of the applicant’s cannabis business permit, or related to
the county’s approval of a commercial cannabis activity. The county may, at its
sole discretion, participate at its own expense in the defense of any such
action, but such participation shall not relieve any of the obligations imposed
hereunder.
      (4)   Applicant shall obtain from the county any and all land use
approvals or entitlements for the cannabis business site required under Title
25 and
Chapter 19.43, if any. Land use approvals shall include compliance with all
applicable provisions of CEQA.
   (B)   The Administrative Officer or his/her designee(s) shall formally issue
the cannabis business permit(s) once all the foregoing requirements have been
met, including certification from the Administrative Officer or his/her
designee(s) affirming that all of the required land use approvals have been
obtained.
   (C)   Each person issued a cannabis business permit shall be required to pay
the cannabis business permit fee established by resolution and/or ordinance of
the Board of Supervisors to cover the costs of administering the cannabis
business regulatory program created in this chapter.
(Ord. 974, § 1, 2018; Ord. 1036, § 8, 2021; Ord. 1074, § 3 (part), 2024)
§ 7.02.054 RENEWAL OF CANNABIS BUSINESS PERMIT.
   (A)   An application for renewal of a cannabis business permit shall be
filed at least 60 calendar days prior to the expiration date of the current
cannabis business permit.
   (B)   The renewal application shall contain all the required application
information as set forth in §
7.02.051.
   (C)   The applicant shall pay a fee in an amount to be set by resolution
and/or ordinance by the Board of Supervisors to cover the costs of processing
the renewal application, together with any costs incurred by the county to
administer the cannabis business regulatory program created under this chapter.
   (D)   A renewal application shall be denied for any of the reasons set forth
in §
7.02.070.
   (E)   The Administrative Officer or his/her designee(s) is authorized to
make all decisions concerning the issuance of a renewal permit. In making their
decision, the Administrative Officer or his/her designee(s) is authorized to
impose additional conditions to a renewal permit, if it is determined to be
necessary to ensure compliance with state or local laws and regulations or to
preserve the public health, safety, or welfare. Appeals from the decision of
the Administrative Officer or his/her designee(s) shall be handled pursuant to
§
7.02.080.
   (F)   If a renewal application is rejected or denied, a person may file a
new application pursuant to this chapter no sooner than one year from the date
of the rejection or denial.
   (G)   Processing of renewal applications shall be given priority over first-
time applicants for a cannabis business, should the county have more than one
application period.
(Ord. 974, § 1, 2018; Ord. 1074, § 3 (part), 2024)
§ 7.02.055 AMENDED APPLICATION; CHANGE IN LOCATION.
   (A)   Any time the cannabis business site specified in the cannabis business
permit is changed, the permittee shall submit an amended application with
information regarding the new location to the Administrative Officer or his/her
designee(s).
   (B)   Within 15 calendar days of any other change in the information
provided in the application form or any change in status of compliance with the
provisions of this chapter, including any change in the cannabis business
ownership or management members, the applicant shall file an amended
application with the Administrative Officer or his/her designee(s) for review
along with an amended application fee, as set forth in this section and §
7.02.090.
(Ord. 974, § 1, 2018; Ord. 1074, § 3 (part), 2024)
§ 7.02.056 TRANSFER OF CANNABIS BUSINESS PERMIT.
   (A)   Issuance of a cannabis business permit does not create an entitlement,
interest of value, does not run with the land, is not transferable, and
automatically terminates upon transfer of ownership.
   (B)   A permittee shall not transfer ownership or control of any cannabis
business permit to another person. Any attempt to do so shall cause the
cannabis business permit(s) to be automatically revoked.
   (C)   Whenever a permittee changes its business structure ownership or
substantially changes the ownership of the cannabis business (changes that
result in a change of more than 51% of the original ownership), must be
approved by the Administrative Officer or his/her designee(s) through the
transfer process contained in this section. Failure to comply with this
provision is grounds for permit revocation.
   (D)   A permittee may change the form of business entity without applying to
the Administrative Officer or his/her designee(s) for a transfer of permit,
provided that either:
      (1)   The membership of the new business entity is substantially similar
to original permit holder business entity (at least 51% of the membership is
identical); or
      (2)   If the original permittee is an unincorporated association, mutual
or public benefit corporation, agricultural or consumer cooperative
corporation, and subsequently transitions to or forms a new business entity as
allowed under the MAUCRSA and in compliance with §
7.02.055(B), provided that the Board of Directors (or in the case of an
unincorporated association, the individual(s) listed on the county permit
application) of the original permittee entity are the same as the new business
entity.
      (3)   Although a transfer is not required in these two circumstances, the
permit holder is required to notify the Administrative Officer or his/her
designee(s) in writing of the change within ten calendar days of the change.
Failure to comply with this provision is grounds for permit revocation.
   (E)   No cannabis business permit may be transferred when the Administrative
Officer or his/her designee(s) has notified the permittee that the permit has
been or may be suspended or revoked.
   (F)   Any attempt to transfer a cannabis business permit either directly or
indirectly in violation of this section is hereby declared void, and such a
purported transfer shall be deemed a ground for revocation of the permit.
(Ord. 974, § 1, 2018; Ord. 1074, § 3 (part), 2024)
§ 7.02.060 [RESERVED.]
§ 7.02.061 [RESERVED.]
§ 7.02.062 [RESERVED.]
§ 7.02.063 [RESERVED.]
§ 7.02.064 [RESERVED.]
§ 7.02.065 [RESERVED.]
§ 7.02.070 DENIAL, NON-RENEWAL, SUSPENSION, OR REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   (A)   Grounds for denial or non-renewal. The Administrative Officer or his/
her designee(s) may deny an application for issuance or renewal of a cannabis
business permit to any of the following persons, including, but not limited to,
any individual, firm, partnership, joint venture, association, corporation,
limited liability company, estate, trust, business trust, receiver, syndicate,
or any other group or combination acting as a unit, and the plural as well as
the singular:
      (1)   Any person who, as of January 1, 2025, engages in commercial
cannabis activity in the county in violation of local and/or state law which
resulted in a felony will be subject to review by the Administrative Officer or
his/her designee(s);
         (a)   A violent felony conviction, as specified in Cal. Penal Code §
667.5(c);
         (b)   A serious felony conviction, as specified in Cal. Penal Code §
1192.7(c);
         (c)   A felony conviction involving fraud, deceit, or embezzlement;
         (d)   A felony conviction for hiring, employing, or using a minor in
transporting, carrying, selling, giving away, preparing for sale, or peddling,
any controlled substance to a minor; or selling, offering to sell, furnishing,
offering to furnish, administering, or giving any controlled substance to a
minor;
         (e)   A felony conviction for drug trafficking with enhancements
pursuant to Cal. Health and Safety Code § 11370.4 or 11379.8;
      (2)   Any person whom the state has, for any reason, denied, suspended,
or revoked any state license or local jurisdiction permit authorizing
commercial cannabis activity, or employment by a cannabis business will be
subject to review by the Administrative Officer or his/her designee(s);
      (3)   Any person issued a notice of non-compliance for engaging in
unlawful commercial cannabis activity in violation of this code, and/or other
laws, codes, or requirements in which they failed to timely discontinue the
unlawful activity;
      (4)   Any person who, after reasonable notice and time to cure, failed to
timely pay all federal, state, or local taxes and/or fees owed as applicable;
and/or
      (5)   Any person who enters into an agreement to lease, sublease, or
otherwise agrees, regardless of whether it is verbally or in writing, to any
terms of use of the premises from a property owner, commercial broker, or any
third party, that is based on a term other than a monthly rate, or is in
violation of §
7.02.060 unless that property is leased at fair market value and such lease,
sublease, or agreement does not have any terms or conditions for the cannabis
business to pay the property owner, commercial broker, or any third party a
percentage of gross receipts, royalties, equity, or other unreasonable
compensation as determined by the county.
   (B)   Furthermore, the Administrative Officer or his/her designee(s) may
deny an application for issuance or renewal of a cannabis business permit for
any of the following reasons, as applicable:
      (1)   The application was not timely filed;
      (2)   Any cannabis business permit issued to the applicant was suspended
or revoked at the time the renewal application was submitted;
      (3)   The permittee has not been in regular and continuous operation in
the four months prior to submission of the renewal application;
      (4)   The applicant failed to conform to the requirements of this
chapter, or of any regulations adopted pursuant to this chapter;
      (5)   The permittee fails or is unable to renew its state license;
      (6)   The applicant was notified that they were conducting commercial
cannabis activity in non-compliance with Title 25, other provisions of this
code and requirements in which they failed to discontinued operating in a
timely manner;
      (7)   Evidence that the applicant was in non-compliance of properly
paying federal, state, or local taxes and/or fees when notified by the
appropriate agencies;
      (8)   As of January 1, 2019, applicant was conducting commercial cannabis
activity in the county in violation of local and state law; or
      (9)   No person shall be issued a commercial cannabis permit to operate
who enters into an agreement to lease, sublease, or any other agreement,
regardless of whether it is verbally or in writing to any terms of use of the
premises from a property owner, commercial broker, or any third party, that if
an application is denied, a new application may not be filed for one year from
the date of the denial or non- renewal.
   (C)   Suspension or revocation of cannabis business permit. A cannabis
business permit may be suspended or revoked for any of the following reasons:
      (1)   Effect of state license suspension or revocation. Suspension of a
license issued by the state, or by any of its departments or divisions, shall
immediately suspend the ability of a cannabis business to operate within the
county, until the state, or its respective department or division, reinstates
or reissues the state license. Should the state, or any of its departments or
divisions, revoke or terminate the license of a cannabis business, such
revocation or termination shall also revoke or terminate the ability of a
cannabis business to operate within the county.
      (2)   Revocation of permits. Cannabis business permits may be revoked for
any violation of any law and/or any rule, regulation, and/or standard adopted
pursuant to any policy, procedure, or regulation in this chapter. If the local
permit is revoked, the county will notify the owner/operator in writing prior
to revocation.
      (3)   Other grounds for suspension or revocation of cannabis business
permit. Cannabis business permits may be suspended or revoked for any violation
of any law and/or any rule, regulation, and/or standard adopted pursuant to
this section or §
7.02.110, or pursuant to any policy, procedure, or regulation in this chapter.
(Ord. 974, § 1, 2018; Ord. 1074, § 3 (part), 2024)
§ 7.02.080 APPEAL PROCESS.
   Unless specifically provided elsewhere to the contrary, whenever an appeal
is provided for in this chapter from a decision of the Administrative Officer
or his/her designee(s), the appeal shall be conducted as prescribed in this
chapter.
   (A)   Written request for appeal. Within ten calendar days after the date of
a decision of the Administrative Officer or his/her designee(s) to revoke,
suspend, not renew, or deny a permit, or to add conditions to a permit, an
aggrieved party may appeal such action by filing a written appeal with the
Clerk of the Board of Supervisors setting forth the reasons why the decision
was not proper. At the time of filing the appellant shall pay the designated
appeal fee, established by resolution and/or ordinance of the Board of
Supervisors, which may be amended from time to time.
   (B)   Appeal hearing. Upon receipt of the written appeal, the Clerk of the
Board of Supervisors shall set the matter for a hearing before the Hearing
Officer. The Hearing Officer shall hear the matter de novo and shall conduct
the hearing pursuant to the procedures set forth by the county. The appeal
shall be held within a reasonable time after the filing the appeal, but in no
event later than 90 calendar days from the date of such filing. The county
shall notify the appellant of the time and location at least ten calendar days
prior to the date of the hearing. At the hearing, the appellant may present any
information they deem relevant to the decision appealed. The formal rules of
evidence and procedure applicable in a court of law shall not apply to the
hearing. The decision of the Hearing Officer shall be final and conclusive.
(Ord. 974, § 1, 2018; Ord. 1074, § 3 (part), 2024)
§ 7.02.090 FEES AND CHARGES; DEBT OWED TO COUNTY.
   (A)   No permittee may commence or continue any commercial cannabis activity
in the county, without timely paying in full all fees and charges required for
the operation of a commercial cannabis activity. Fees and charges associated
with the operation of a commercial cannabis activity shall be established by
resolution and/or ordinance of the Board of Supervisors, which may be amended
from time to time.
   (B)   All cannabis businesses shall pay all sales, use, business, and other
applicable taxes, and all license, registration, and other fees required under
federal, state, and local law. Each cannabis business shall cooperate with the
county with respect to any reasonable request to audit the cannabis business’
books and records for the purpose of verifying compliance with this section,
including, but not limited to, a verification of the amount of taxes required
to be paid during any period.
   (C)   Application fee. All work performed in reviewing applications,
consulting with the applicant, conducting site inspections, reviewing changes
in information contained in the initial application, and making determinations
on the application shall be billed to the applicant on an at-cost basis. An
application for a cannabis business permit must be accompanied by a deposit as
set forth in the unified fee schedule. If the deposit is exhausted before work
on the application is completed, the Administrative Officer or his/her designee
(s) shall obtain a further deposit before continuing to review the application.
In the case of subsequent changes in the information contained in the initial
application, an amended application fee shall apply. At the conclusion of the
Administrative Officer’s work, the Administrative Officer or his/her designee
(s) will either refund the remaining balance or bill the applicant for any
overage. No cannabis business permit shall be granted until all application
fees have been paid in full.
   (D)   Permit fee. A cannabis business permit shall not be granted to an
applicant under this chapter until the applicant has paid a non-refundable
cannabis business permit fee as set forth in the unified fee schedule. The
purpose of this fee is to pay for the costs of administering and enforcing the
cannabis business regulatory program regulations related to permitting and
enforcement that are not covered by application fees.
   (E)   Fees deemed debt to the county. The amount of any fee, cost, or charge
imposed pursuant to this chapter shall be deemed a debt to the county that is
recoverable via an authorized administrative process as set forth in this code,
or in any court of competent jurisdiction.
(Ord. 974, § 1, 2018; Ord. 1074, § 3 (part), 2024)
§ 7.02.100 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS APPLICABLE TO ALL CANNABIS BUSINESSES.
   (A)   Prior to issuance of a cannabis business permit, a cannabis business
must meet all of the following requirements:
      (1)   Right to occupy and to use property. As a condition precedent to
the county’s issuance of a cannabis business permit pursuant to this chapter,
any person intending to open and to operate a cannabis business shall provide
sufficient evidence of the legal right to occupy and to use the proposed
location. In the event the proposed location will be leased from the property
owner, the applicant shall be required to provide a signed and notarized
statement from the owner of the property, acknowledging that the property owner
has read this chapter and consents to the operation of the cannabis business on
the owner’s property.
      (2)   Location and design of cannabis businesses. Cannabis businesses
permitted to engage in cultivation, distribution, manufacturing, microbusiness,
and testing laboratories, for cannabis goods are subject to the zoning and
locational requirements set forth in
Chapter 19.43 of this code.
   (B)   Prior to commencing operations, notwithstanding the issuance of a
cannabis business permit, a permittee must meet all of the following
requirements:
      (1)   Obtain a state license and as set forth in §
7.02.050.
      (2)   Certification from the Administrative Officer. Obtain a
certification from the Administrative Officer or his/her designee(s) certifying
that the cannabis business is located on a site that meets all of the
requirements of division (A)(2) and Titles 19 and 25 of this code.
      (3)   Compliance with
Chapter 19.43.
      (4)   The permittee shall cooperate with the county whenever the
Administrative Officer or his/her designee(s) makes a request, with or without
prior notice, to inspect or audit the effectiveness of any security plan or of
any other requirement of this chapter.
      (5)   A permittee shall notify the Administrative Officer or his/her
designee(s) within 24 hours after discovering any of the following:
         (a)   Significant discrepancies identified during inventory. The level
of significance shall be determined by the regulations promulgated by the
Administrative Officer or his/her designee(s);
         (b)   Diversion, theft, loss, or any criminal activity involving the
cannabis business or any agent or employee of the cannabis business;
         (c)   The loss or unauthorized alteration of records related to
cannabis, customers, or employees or agents of the cannabis business; or
         (d)   Any other breach of security.
      (6)   Compliance with the foregoing requirements shall be verified by the
Administrative Officer or his/her designee(s) prior to permittee commencing
operations. The Administrative Officer or his/her designee(s) may supplement
the security requirements set forth in
Chapter 19.43 once operations begin, subject to the Administrative Officer or
his/her designee(s) review, if requested by the owner.
      (7)   The Administrative Officer or his/her designee(s) may supplement
the operational requirements set forth in
Chapter 19.43 or regulations promulgated by the Board of Supervisors as are
necessary to protect the public health, safety, and welfare. Such operating
requirements include, but are not limited, to:
         (a)   Compliance with laws. Compliance with all state and local laws
and regulations, including, but not limited to, the requirements of this
chapter and of the cannabis business permit; and
         (b)   Age. No person under the age of 21 years old shall operate a
cannabis business, or be issued a permit for any commercial cannabis activity
of any kind.
(Ord. 974, § 1, 2018; Ord. 1074, § 3 (part), 2024)
§ 7.02.110 GENERAL OPERATING REQUIREMENTS.
   Permittees shall at all times comply with the following:
   (A)   All applicable requirements set forth in
Chapter 19.43 of this code;
   (B)   Cannabis businesses utilizing distribution services. Any permittee
under this chapter requiring the services of a state licensed distributor
shall, consistent with public safety, be required to, prior to any
transportation of any cannabis goods, submit to the County Sheriff the
following information for each distributor the permittee intends to utilize to
transport cannabis good to or from the cannabis business site:
      (1)   The name, state license, and local authorization information of the
distributor;
      (2)   A list of names of the distribution employees who will operate
distribution vehicles within the county; and
      (3)   The make, model, license plate number, and VIN number of all
distribution vehicles used within the county;
   (C)   Loitering. The owner and/or operator of a cannabis business shall
prohibit loitering by persons outside the facility on the premises. The
cannabis business shall notify the Sheriff’s Office if anyone continues to
loiter around the building or premises after reasonable action has been taken
to remove the individual(s) and the action has failed to do so in a timely
manner;
   (D)   Reporting and tracking of product and of gross sales. Each permittee
shall have in place a point-of-sale or management inventory tracking system to
track and report on all aspects of the cannabis business including, but not
limited to, such matters as cannabis tracking, inventory data, gross sales (by
weight and by sale), and other information which may be deemed necessary by the
county. The permittee shall ensure that such information is compatible with the
county’s recordkeeping systems. In addition, the system must have the
capability to produce historical transactional data for review. Furthermore,
any system selected must be approved and authorized by the Administrative
Officer or his/her designee(s) prior to being used by the permittee;
   (E)   All cannabis goods sold, distributed, or manufactured shall be
cultivated, manufactured, and transported by state licensees that maintain
operations in full conformance with the state and local regulations;
   (F)   Emergency contact. Each permittee shall provide the Administrative
Officer or his/her designee(s) with the name and telephone number (both land
line and mobile, if available) of an on-site employee or owner to whom
emergency notice can be provided at any hour of the day;
   (G)   Minors. With the exception of persons aged 18-20 years who are in
possession of a doctor’s recommendation and intend to purchase medicinal
cannabis for solely medicinal reasons, persons under the age of 21 years shall
not be allowed on the premises of a cannabis business and shall not be allowed
to serve as a driver for any delivery service. It shall be unlawful and a
violation of this chapter for any cannabis business to employ any person who is
not at least 21 years of age. The entrance to the cannabis business shall be
clearly and legibly posted with a notice that no person under the age of 21
years of age is permitted to enter upon the premises of the cannabis business;
   (H)   Display of cannabis business permit and state license. The original
copy of any state license, cannabis business permit issued pursuant to Chapter
7.02, and any county issued business license shall be posted inside the
cannabis business in a location readily visible to the public;
   (I)   Background check. Pursuant to Cal. Penal Code §§ 11105(b)(11) and
13300(b)(11), which authorizes county authorities to access state and local
summary criminal history information for employment, licensing, or
certification purposes; and authorizes access to federal level criminal history
information by transmitting fingerprint images and related information to the
Department of Justice to be transmitted to the Federal Bureau of Investigation,
every person listed as an owner, manager, supervisor in a cannabis business
must submit fingerprints and other information deemed necessary by the Sheriff
or his/her designee(s) for a background check by the Sheriff’s Office. Pursuant
to Cal. Penal Code §§ 11105(b)(11) and 13300(b)(11), which requires that there
be a requirement or exclusion from licensing or certification based on specific
criminal conduct on the part of the subject of the record. No person shall be
issued a permit to operate a cannabis business or a related work permit unless
they have first cleared the background check, as determined by the Sheriff or
his/her designee(s), as required by this section. A fee for the cost of the
background investigation, which shall be the actual cost to the county to
conduct the background investigation as it deems necessary and appropriate,
shall be paid at the time the background check is submitted;
   (J)   Permits and other approvals. Prior to the establishment and/or
operation of any cannabis business, the applicant must first obtain all
applicable planning, zoning, building, and other applicable permits from the
relevant government departments which may be applicable to the zoning district
in which such cannabis business intends to establish and to operate;
   (K)   Training standards. Each cannabis business shall establish minimum
training standards for employees. The Administrative Officer or his/her
designee(s) shall have the discretion to require other training for the
cannabis business operations should the county identify deficiencies or non-
compliance issues with county or state requirements;
   (L)   Records and recordkeeping. Each owner and/or operator of a cannabis
business shall maintain accurate books and records in an electronic format,
detailing all of the revenues and expenses of the business, and all of its
assets and liabilities. At any time upon reasonable request of the county, each
cannabis business shall file a sworn statement detailing the number of sales by
the cannabis business during the previous 12-month period (or shorter period
based upon the timing of the request), provided on a per-month basis. The
statement shall also include gross sales for each month, and all applicable
taxes and fees paid or due to be paid. Each permittee shall be subject to a
regulatory compliance review and financial audit as determined by the
Administrative Officer or his/her designee(s);
   (M)   Each owner and/or operator of a cannabis business shall maintain a
current register of the names and the contact information (including the name,
address, and telephone number) of anyone owning or holding an interest in the
cannabis business, and separately of all the officers, managers, employees,
agents, and volunteers currently employed or otherwise engaged by the cannabis
business. The register required by this division shall be provided to the
Administrative Officer or his/her designee(s) upon a reasonable request;
   (N)   All cannabis businesses shall maintain an inventory control and
reporting system that accurately documents the present location, amounts, and
descriptions of all cannabis goods for all stages of the growing and production
or manufacturing, laboratory testing, and distribution processes until purchase
as set forth in MAUCRSA; and
   (O)   Each cannabis business shall allow county officials access to the
business’s books, records, accounts, together with any other data or documents
relevant to its permitted commercial cannabis activities, for the purpose of
conducting an audit or examination. Books, records, accounts, and any and all
relevant data or documents will be produced no later than 24 hours after
receipt of the county’s request, unless otherwise stipulated by the county. The
county may require the materials to be submitted in an electronic format that
is compatible with the county’s software and hardware.
(Ord. 974, § 1, 2018; Ord. 1074, § 3 (part), 2024)
§ 7.02.120 [RESERVED.]
§ 7.02.130 OPERATING REQUIREMENTS FOR OUT OF COUNTY DELIVERY SERVICES.
   (A)   Out of county delivery services. Notwithstanding the provisions of
this section, out of county delivery services are not expressly prohibited. Any
out of county delivery service shall be required to obtain a cannabis business
permit pursuant to this chapter prior to delivering any cannabis and/or
cannabis product to any customer or purchaser in the county.
   (B)   The delivery of cannabis goods within the county shall only be
conducted by state licensed retailers located outside of the county, including
microbusinesses with a retail component, which hold a valid authorization to
engage in commercial cannabis activities from the local jurisdiction of origin.
   (C)   Prior to commencing operations within the county, an out of county
delivery service shall be required to:
      (1)   Obtain a cannabis business permit from the county in order to
deliver cannabis goods within the county regardless of whether the retailer or
microbusiness is located in a local jurisdiction;
      (2)   Provide the make, model, license plate number, and VIN number of
all delivery vehicles that will be used to deliver cannabis goods; and
      (3)   Ensure the delivery vehicles meet the requirements of division (H).
   (D)   The information listed in (C)(2) shall be required for any new
delivery vehicle prior to using the delivery vehicle within the county.
   (E)   The out of county delivery services shall maintain an accurate list of
all its delivery employees and delivery vehicles, and shall notify the county
in writing within 30 calendar days whenever any changes to the information
required by this section occur.
   (F)   Time, place, and manner requirements.
      (1)   An out of county delivery service shall be limited to operating
within the county only during the hours of 7:00 a.m. through 9:00 p.m., seven
days a week, or as set forth in the conditions of the cannabis business permit.
      (2)   An out of county delivery service shall not deliver cannabis goods
to any address located on publicly owned land or any address on land or in a
building leased by any public agency.
      (3)   All deliveries of cannabis goods shall be made in person. A
delivery of cannabis goods shall not be made through the use of an unmanned
vehicle.
      (4)   An out of county delivery service shall comply with all
requirements of state and local law pertaining to the state license, the local
jurisdiction of origin’s authorization to engage, in commercial cannabis
activity, and the cannabis business permit, and all subsequent policies,
procedures, and regulations which may be amended by the Administrative Officer
or his/her designee(s) from time to in order to enforce this chapter.
   (G)   Conduct of out of county delivery service employees. While making
deliveries within the county, an employee of an out of county delivery service
shall:
      (1)   Only travel in an enclosed motor vehicle operated by themselves or
by another employee of the out of county delivery service;
      (2)   Only sell cannabis goods to a natural person 21 years of age or
older, or a natural person 18 years of age or older who possesses a physician’s
recommendation for cannabis medical use only, as applicable and authorized by
the state license;
      (3)   Ensure the cannabis goods are not visible to the public;
      (4)   Ensure the cannabis and/or cannabis goods are locked in a box that
is secured to the inside of the delivery vehicle;
      (5)   Carry a valid copy of each of the following:
         (a)   The out of county delivery service’s state license;
         (b)   The local jurisdiction of origin’s authorization to operate;
         (c)   A valid cannabis business permit;
         (d)   The employee’s government-issued identification; and
         (e)   An employer provided badge containing a picture and the name of
the delivery employee;
      (6)   Carry proper shipping manifest documentation which includes the
following information:
         (a)   The name of the out of county delivery service;
         (b)   The names of the authorized drivers;
         (c)   The type and quantity or amount of cannabis goods being
transported;
         (d)   The unique identifiers issued by the Department of Food and
Agriculture pursuant to Cal. Health and Safety Code § 11362.777;
         (e)   The quantity and weight or amount of cannabis goods being
transported;
         (f)   The time and location of departure;
         (g)   The time and location of the expected arrival; and
         (h)   The make, model, and license plate number of the delivery
vehicle;
      (7)   Not leave cannabis goods in an unattended motor vehicle unless the
motor vehicle is equipped with an active vehicle alarm system; and
      (8)   Not carry cannabis goods valued in excess of $5,000 at any time.
This value shall be determined using the retail price of all cannabis goods
carried by the out of county delivery service.
   (H)   Delivery vehicle requirements. Each delivery vehicle must be:
      (1)   Non-conspicuous and shall not display signs, logos, pictures, or
any other form of advertisement which can be detectable by a bystander or
observer that the delivery vehicle may be used for, or is, carrying cannabis
goods; and
      (2)   Outfitted with a dedicated global positioning system (“GPS”) device
for the identifying the geographic location of the delivery vehicle. A
dedicated GPS device does not include a phone or tablet. The GPS device shall
be either permanently or temporarily affixed to the delivery vehicle and shall
remain active and inside of the delivery vehicle at all times during the
delivery. At all times, the licensed delivery service shall be able to identify
the geographic location of the delivery vehicles that are making deliveries for
the delivery service and shall provide the information to the county upon
request.
(Ord. 974, § 1, 2018; Ord. 1074, § 3 (part), 2024)
§ 7.02.140 OPERATING REQUIREMENTS FOR CULTIVATORS.
   (A)   Cultivators permitted under this chapter shall at all times comply
with all applicable requirements set forth in
Chapter 19.43 of this code.
   (B)   Cultivators shall only be permitted under this chapter and/or any
subsequently created state license for cultivation as defined in MAUCRSA, and
may be permitted to operate only within those zone districts as set forth in
Title 25 of this code.
(Ord. 974, § 1, 2018; Ord. 1074, § 3 (part), 2024)
§ 7.02.150 OPERATING REQUIREMENTS FOR DISTRIBUTORS.
   (A)   Distributors permitted under this chapter shall at all times comply
with all applicable requirements set forth in
Chapter 19.43 of this code.
   (B)   Distributors shall only be permitted under this chapter and/or any
subsequently created state license for distribution as defined in MAUCRSA, and
may be permitted to operate only within those zone districts as set forth in
Title 25 of this code.
(Ord. 974, § 1, 2018; Ord. 1074, § 3 (part), 2024)
§ 7.02.160 OPERATING REQUIREMENTS FOR MANUFACTURERS.
   (A)   Manufacturers permitted under this chapter shall at all times comply
with all applicable requirements set forth in
Chapter 19.43 of this code.
   (B)   Manufacturers shall only be permitted under this chapter and/or any
subsequently created state license for manufacturing as defined in MAUCRSA, and
may be permitted to operate only within those zone districts as set forth in
Title 25 of this code.
(Ord. 974, § 1, 2018; Ord. 1074, § 3 (part), 2024)
§ 7.02.170 OPERATING REQUIREMENTS FOR TESTING LABORATORIES.
   (A)   Testing laboratories permitted under this chapter shall at all times
comply with all applicable requirements set forth in
Chapter 19.43 of this code.
   (B)   Testing laboratories shall only be permitted under this chapter and/or
any subsequently created state license for testing laboratories as defined in
MAUCRSA, and may be permitted to operate only within those zone districts as
set forth in Title 25 of this code.
(Ord. 974, § 1, 2018; Ord. 1074, § 3 (part), 2024)
§ 7.02.180 OPERATING REQUIREMENTS FOR RETAIL.
   (A)   Retail permitted under this chapter shall at all times comply with all
applicable requirements set forth in
Chapter 19.43 of this code.
   (B)   Retail shall only be permitted under this chapter and/or any
subsequently created state license for microbusinesses as defined in MAUCRSA,
and may be permitted to operate only within those zone districts as set forth
in Title 25 of this code.
(Ord. 1074, § 3 (part), 2024)
§ 7.02.190 OPERATING REQUIREMENTS FOR MICROBUSINESSES.
   (A)   Microbusinesses permitted under this chapter shall at all times comply
with all applicable requirements set forth in
Chapter 19.43 of this code.
   (B)   Microbusinesses shall only be permitted under this chapter and/or any
subsequently created state license for microbusinesses as defined in MAUCRSA,
and may be permitted to operate only within those zone districts as set forth
in Title 25 of this code.
(Ord. 974, § 1, 2018; Ord. 1074, § 3 (part), 2024)
§ 7.02.200 INSPECTION AND ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The enforcing officer charged with enforcing the provisions of this
code, may enter a cannabis business site at any time, without notice, and
inspect the location of any cannabis business as well as any recordings and
records required to be maintained pursuant to this chapter or under applicable
provisions of state law.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person having responsibility over the operation
of a cannabis business to impede, obstruct, interfere with, or otherwise not to
allow the county to conduct an inspection, review, or copy records, recordings,
or other documents required to be maintained by a cannabis business under this
chapter or under state or local law. It is also unlawful for a person to
conceal, destroy, deface, damage, or falsify any records, recordings, or other
documents required to be maintained by a cannabis business under this chapter
or under state or local law.
   (C)   The enforcing officer charged with enforcing the provisions of this
chapter may enter a cannabis business site at any time during the hours of
operation and without notice to obtain samples of the cannabis to test for
public safety purposes. Any samples obtained by the county shall be logged,
recorded, and maintained in accordance with established procedures by the
Administrative Officer or his/her designee(s) or these regulations.
   (D)   Each and every violation of the provisions of this chapter is hereby
deemed unlawful and a public nuisance.
   (E)   Each and every violation of this chapter shall constitute a separate
violation and shall be subject to all remedies and enforcement measures
authorized by the county. Additionally, as a nuisance per se, any violation of
this chapter shall be subject to injunctive relief, any permit issued pursuant
to this chapter being deemed null and void, disgorgement and payment to the
county for any monies unlawfully obtained, costs of abatement, costs of
investigation, attorney fees, and any other relief or remedy available at law
or in equity. The county may also pursue any and all remedies and actions
available and applicable under state and local laws for any violations
committed by the cannabis business or persons related to, or associated with,
the commercial cannabis activity. Additionally, when there is determined to be
an imminent threat to public health, safety, or welfare, the Administrative
Officer, or his/her designee(s), may take immediate action to temporarily
suspend a cannabis business permit issued by the county, pending a hearing
before the Administrative Officer, or his/her designee(s).
   (F)   Each and every violation of the provisions of this chapter and
chapter 19.43 may in the discretion of the District Attorney or County Attorney
be prosecuted as a misdemeanor, and upon conviction be subject to a fine not to
exceed $1,000, or imprisonment in the county jail for a period of not more than
six months, or by both such fine and imprisonment. Each day a violation is
committed or permitted to continue shall constitute a separate offense.
   (G)   Each and every violation of the provisions of this chapter and chapter
19.43 shall be subject to the administrative citations for illicit cannabis
activities and violations of cannabis business permit as issued by San Benito
County per §
1.04.005.
   (H)   The remedies provided herein are not to be construed as exclusive
remedies. The county is authorized to pursue any proceedings or remedies
provided by law.
(Ord. 974, § 1, 2018; Ord. 1074, § 3 (part), 2024)
§ 7.02.210 COMPLIANCE WITH STATE AND LOCAL LAWS.
   It shall be the responsibility of the owners and employees of the cannabis
business to ensure that the cannabis business is, at all times, operating in a
manner compliant with all applicable state and local laws, including the
Medicinal and Adult Use Cannabis Regulation and Safety Act (“MAUCRSA”), and any
subsequently enacted state law or regulatory, licensing, or certification
requirements, and any specific, additional operating procedures or requirements
which may be imposed by the county as conditions of approval. Nothing in this
chapter shall be construed as authorizing any actions that violate state or
local law regarding the operation of a cannabis business.
(Ord. 974, § 1, 2018; Ord. 1074, § 3 (part), 2024)
§ 7.02.220 PERMIT HOLDER RESPONSIBLE FOR VIOLATIONS.
   The person to whom any permit is issued pursuant to this chapter shall be
responsible for any and all violations of the state and/or local laws, as well
as any the regulations promulgated under this chapter, whether committed by the
permittee or any employee or agent of the permittee, which violations occur in
or about the cannabis business site whether or not said violations occur within
the permittee’s presence.
(Ord. 974, § 1, 2018; Ord. 1074, § 3 (part), 2024)
§ 7.02.230 LIMITATIONS ON COUNTY’S LIABILITY.
   To the fullest extent permitted by law, the county shall not assume any
liability whatsoever with respect to having issued a cannabis business permit
pursuant to this chapter or otherwise authorizing a commercial business to
engage in commercial cannabis activity.
(Ord. 974, § 1, 2018; Ord. 1074, § 3 (part), 2024)
CHAPTER 7.03: CARD ROOMS
Section
   
7.03.001   Defined
   
7.03.002   Permit; required
   
7.03.003   Same; application
   
7.03.004   Same; fee
   
7.03.005   Same; investigation
   
7.03.006   Same; consideration by Board of Supervisors; hearing; criteria for
issuance; appeal from denial
   
7.03.007   Same; transferability
   
7.03.008   Same; renewal
   
7.03.009   Same; suspension or revocation
   
7.03.010   Minors prohibited on premises
   
7.03.011   Hours of operation
   
7.03.012   Intoxicated persons prohibited
   
7.03.013   Inspection by peace officers
   
7.03.014   Registration of employees with Sheriff
   
7.03.015   Penalty for violation of chapter
Statutory reference:
   Gambling generally, see Cal. Penal Code §§ 330 to 337z
§ 7.03.001 DEFINED.
   A CARD ROOM is defined as any place wherein any table or tables which are
used by the public for the playing of cards or gambling and for the use of
which a fee or other compensation in any form is charged players.
(1966 Code, § 5A-1) (Ord. 255, § 2)
§ 7.03.002 PERMIT; REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to conduct, keep or
maintain, or permit to be conducted, kept or maintained, within the
unincorporated area of the county, any card room without first having obtained
a permit from the county’s Board of Supervisors so to do.
(1966 Code, § 5A-2) (Ord. 255, § 1)
§ 7.03.003 SAME; APPLICATION.
   (A)   A written application for permits under this chapter, which shall be
verified under penalty of perjury, shall be filed with the Sheriff of the
county on forms to be provided by him or her and shall contain the following
information:
      (1)   The name, occupation, business status and residence address of the
applicant and of all persons having a financial interest in the obtaining of
such a permit;
      (2)   The location and ownership of the premises for which the permit is
sought;
      (3)   The number of tables for which the permit is sought;
      (4)   The names and addresses of all employees to be employed by the
applicant in the operation for which the permit is sought;
      (5)   A photograph and fingerprints of the applicant, all employees to be
employed in the operation for which the permit is sought, and all persons
having a financial interest in the obtaining of such a permit; and
      (6)   Such further information as the Sheriff may require.
   (B)   Any change in name, occupation, business or residence with reference
to the persons designated in this section, insofar as it relates, either
directly or indirectly, to the operation of any business for which a permit is
sought under this chapter, shall be reported to the Sheriff within 30 days. All
information required under this section shall be available to any law
enforcement agency.
   (C)   It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to making
application for a permit under this chapter to give or use a false or
fictitious name, or make a false or fraudulent statement, or conceal any
material fact which might affect the issuance of a permit under this chapter.
(1966 Code, § 5A-3) (Ord. 255, §§ 3, 13)
§ 7.03.004 SAME; FEE.
   The applicant shall pay the cost of processing each application. The cost of
processing each application is fixed at $200 for the first table and $100 for
each additional table in the card room plus an additional cost of $5 for each
employee to be employed in the operation for which the permit is sought and an
additional $5 for each person having a financial interest in the obtaining of
the permit. The costs of processing each application are payable annually, in
advance on January 1 of each and every year, shall not be prorated, and shall
not be refundable.
(1966 Code, § 5A-4) (Ord. 255, § 4)
§ 7.03.005 SAME; INVESTIGATION.
   The Sheriff of the county shall inspect tables and premises in which the
operation of the business will be conducted, and shall investigate the moral
character of the applicant, all employees to be employed in the business and
all persons having a financial interest in the obtaining of the permit. The
Sheriff shall not recommend any application unless he or she is satisfied that
the applicant, his or her employees and financially interested persons are of
good moral character and that the operation of the business at the premises
would not constitute a violation of any state law or county ordinance and that
it would not be injurious to the public health, safety, welfare or morals to
operate the business upon the premises for which the permit is sought.
(1966 Code, § 5A-5) (Ord. 255, § 5)
§ 7.03.006 SAME; CONSIDERATION BY BOARD OF SUPERVISORS; HEARING; CRITERIA FOR
ISSUANCE; APPEAL FROM DENIAL.
   (A)   The Sheriff of the county shall submit, in writing, his or her
findings and recommendations of approval or disapproval of the application to
the county’s Board of Supervisors. The Board of Supervisors shall thereupon fix
a time and place for the hearing of the application and shall give the
applicant a written notice of the time and place so fixed, which time shall not
be less than three days or more than 30 days from the date of service of the
notice upon the applicant. The Board of Supervisors shall receive evidence for
and against the granting of the application. The findings and recommendations
of the Sheriff shall be received in evidence by the Board of Supervisors.
   (B)   The Board of Supervisors shall deny the application after considering
the evidence if it determines that it would be injurious to the public health,
safety, welfare or morals to operate the card room or business upon the
premises for which the permit is sought. If the Board of Supervisors denies any
application, notice of denial of the application shall be given in writing to
the applicant within ten days after the denial. The applicant may appeal
therefrom by filing a written notice of the appeal with the Clerk of the Board
of Supervisors within 20 days after notice of the denial of the application.
Upon the filing of the notice of appeal, the Board of Supervisors shall
thereupon fix a time and place or a hearing of the appeal within 45 days and
shall give applicant ten days written notice of the time and place so fixed.
(1966 Code, § 5A-6) (Ord. 255, § 6)
§ 7.03.007 SAME; TRANSFERABILITY.
   Permits issued under this chapter shall not be transferable and any attempt
to transfer a permit shall render it null and void.
(1966 Code, § 5A-7) (Ord. 255, § 7)
§ 7.03.008 SAME; RENEWAL.
   The applicant shall annually renew each permit on January 1 of each year.
(1966 Code, § 5A-8) (Ord. 255, § 8)
§ 7.03.009 SAME; SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION.
   (A)   Permits under this chapter shall be suspended or revoked by the Board
of Supervisors upon conviction of the permittee, or of any employee employed in
such a business, or any person having a financial interest in the business, of
a violation of the provisions of this chapter or any other ordinance or statute
regarding gambling or when it is found by the Board of Supervisors that the
continued operation of the place or establishment would be injurious to the
public health, safety, welfare or morals.
   (B)   On the suspension or revocation of a permit by the Board of
Supervisors under this section, notice of the suspension or revocation shall be
given in writing to the permittee within ten days after the suspension or
revocation. The permittee may appeal therefrom by filing a written notice of
the appeal with the Clerk of the Board of Supervisors within 20 days after
notice of the suspension or revocation of the application. Upon the filing of
the notice of appeal, the Board of Supervisors shall thereupon fix a time and
place or a hearing of the appeal within 45 days and shall give the permittee
ten days written notice of the time and place so fixed.
(1966 Code, § 5A-9) (Ord. 255, § 15)
§ 7.03.010 MINORS PROHIBITED ON PREMISES.
   No person under the age of 21 years shall be permitted to loiter in or about
any card room or to participate, either directly or indirectly, in any game
played at any table in any such room.
(1966 Code, § 5A-10) (Ord. 255, § 9)
§ 7.03.011 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   All card rooms subject to the provisions of this chapter shall cease
operations and remain closed between the hours of 2:00 a.m. and 6:00 a.m.
(1966 Code, § 5A-11) (Ord. 255, § 10)
§ 7.03.012 INTOXICATED PERSONS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful to permit any person under the influence of
intoxicating liquor to loiter in or about any card room or to participate,
either directly or indirectly, in any game played at any table in any such
room.
(1966 Code, § 5A-12) (Ord. 255, § 11)
§ 7.03.013 INSPECTION BY PEACE OFFICERS.
   All card rooms subject to the provisions of this chapter shall be opened at
all times for inspection by any peace officer. PEACE OFFICER is hereby defined
as any person so designated by the laws of the state.
(1966 Code, § 5A-13) (Ord. 255, § 12)
§ 7.03.014 REGISTRATION OF EMPLOYEES WITH SHERIFF.
   (A)   All persons to be employed by any person, firm or corporation who has
obtained a permit under this chapter shall, prior to their employment under the
permit, register with the Sheriff of the county and have a photograph and his
or her fingerprints taken. A fee of $5 shall be charged for each such
registration.
   (B)   Registration with the Sheriff shall be valid for one year. Employees
need not reregister if they change their employment from one premises to
another.
   (C)   Each employee shall re-register annually with the Sheriff on January 1
of each year. A fee of $5 will be charged for each re-registration.
(1966 Code, § 5A-14) (Ord. 255, § 14)
§ 7.03.015 PENALTY FOR VIOLATION OF CHAPTER.
   A violation of any of the provisions of this chapter shall be deemed a
misdemeanor and, upon conviction therefor, shall be punished by a fine not
exceeding $500, or by imprisonment in the county jail for a term not exceeding
six months, or by both the fine and imprisonment.
(1966 Code, § 5A-15) (Ord. 255, § 16)
CHAPTER 7.04: HEMP ENTITIES
Section
   
7.04.001   Authority, purpose, and intent
   
7.04.002   Definitions
   
7.04.003   Prohibitions
   
7.04.004   Hemp Entity Management Program (“H.E.M.P.”)
   
7.04.005   H.E.M.P. registration
   
7.04.006   Fees and charges; debt owed to county
   
7.04.007   General requirements for hemp entities
   
7.04.008   Operating requirements for cultivators
   
7.04.009   [Reserved]
   
7.04.010   Administration and enforcement
   
7.04.011   Compliance with state and local laws
   
7.04.012   Registered hemp entity responsible for violations
   
7.04.013   Limitations on county’s liability
§ 7.04.001  AUTHORITY, PURPOSE, AND INTENT.
   (A)   Pursuant to Article XI, Section 7 of the California Constitution, the
county is authorized to adopt and enforce ordinances and regulations not in
conflict with general laws to protect and promote the public health, safety,
and welfare of its citizens, including, but not limited to, those which
establish standards, requirements and regulations related to commercial and
research industrial hemp activities. Any standards, requirements, and
regulations established by the State of California, or any of its departments
or divisions, regarding commercial and/or research industrial hemp activities
shall be the minimum standards applicable within the unincorporated area of the
County of San Benito.
   (B)   It is the further purpose and intent of this chapter to require all
hemp entity owners and operators to annually register with the county.
   (C)   Further, it is the purpose and intent of this chapter to impose
reasonable land use regulations to protect the county's residents,
neighborhoods, businesses, and the environment from disproportionately negative
impacts caused by commercial and/or research industrial hemp activities, and to
enforce rules and regulations consistent with state and federal law.
   (D)   The provisions of this chapter are in addition to any other permits,
licenses and approvals which may be required to conduct business in the county,
and are in addition to any permits, licenses and approval required under state,
county, or other law.
(Ord. 989, § 1, 2019)
§ 7.04.002 DEFINITIONS.
   When used in this chapter, the following words shall have the meanings
ascribed to them as set forth herein. Any reference to California Statutes
includes any regulations promulgated thereunder and is deemed to include any
successor or amended version of the referenced statute or regulatory provision.
   APPROVED SEED CULTIVAR. A variety of hemp approved to be grown by a
commercial hemp entity and shall include cultivars certified by all the
following:
      (1)   Member organizations of the Association of Official Seed Certifying
Agencies, including, but not limited to, the Canadian Seed Growers'
Association;
      (2)   Organization of Economic Cooperation and Development;
      (3)   A seed-certifying agency pursuant to Cal. Food and Agriculture Code
§§ 52401 et seq.
   CANNABIS. All parts of the Cannabis sativa Linnaeus, Cannabis indica, or
Cannabis ruderalis, whether growing or not; the seeds thereof; the resin,
whether crude or purified, extracted from any part of the plant; and every
compound, manufacture, salt, derivative, mixture, or preparation of the plant,
its seeds, or resin. CANNABIS also means the separated resin, whether crude or
purified, obtained from cannabis. CANNABIS does not include the mature stalks
of the plant, fiber produced from the stalks, oil or cake made from the seeds
of the plant, any other compound, manufacture, salt, derivative, mixture, or
preparation of the mature stalks (except the resin extracted therefrom), fiber,
oil, or cake, or the sterilized seed of the plant which is incapable of
germination. For the purpose of this chapter, CANNABIS does not mean
"industrial hemp" as defined by this chapter and by Cal. Health and Safety Code
§ 11018.5.
   COUNTY OF SAN BENITO or COUNTY. The County of San Benito, as a political
subdivision of the State of California or entity, and/or as related to the land
or jurisdiction to which this chapter applies, means the unincorporated area of
the County of San Benito.
   COMMERCIAL HEMP ENTITY. A person who engages in the cultivation, possession,
manufacture, distribution, processing, storing, laboratory testing, packaging,
labeling, transportation, delivery, dispensing, or sale of hemp and/or hemp for
commercial purposes.
   CULTIVATION. Any activity involving the propagation, planting, growing,
harvesting, drying, curing, grading, or trimming of hemp.
   DRIED FLOWER. All dead hemp that has been harvested, dried, cured, or
otherwise processed, excluding leaves and stems.
   ENFORCING OFFICER. The San Benito County Administrative Officer, Health
Officer, Resources Management Agency Director, Sheriff, or Agricultural
Commissioner, or their authorized deputy(ies) or designee(s), or any person
employed by the County of San Benito and appointed to the position of Code
Enforcement Officer, as established by San Benito County Resolution No. 90-27
and Ordinances 567 and 625, each of whom is independently authorized to enforce
this chapter.
   ESTABLISHED AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH INSTITUTION or RESEARCH HEMP ENTITY. A
person that is either:
      (1)   A public or private institution or organization that maintains land
or facilities for agricultural research, including colleges, universities,
agricultural research centers, and conservation research centers; or
      (2)   An institution of higher education (as defined in Section 1001 of
the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. § 1001)) that grows, cultivates or
manufactures industrial hemp for purposes of research conducted under an
agricultural pilot program or other agricultural or academic research.
   H.E.M.P. The Hemp Entities Management Program established under this
chapter.
   HEMP or INDUSTRIAL HEMP. A crop that is limited to types of the plant
Cannabis sativa L. having no more than three-tenths of 1 percent (0.3%)
tetrahydrocannabinol ("THC") contained in the dried flowering tops, whether
growing or not; the seeds of the plant; the resin extracted from any part of
the plant; and every compound, manufacture, salt, derivative, mixture, or
preparation of the plant, its seeds or resin produced therefrom. For the
purpose of this chapter, HEMP shall not be subject to the provisions of
Chapter 7.02 of this code.
   HEMP CONCENTRATE. Hemp that has undergone a process to concentrate one or
more active cannabinoids, thereby increasing the product's potency. Resin from
granular trichomes from a hemp plant is a concentrate for purposes of this
chapter.
   HEMP ENTITY. Both commercial and research hemp entities.
   HEMP GOODS. Both hemp and/or hemp products.
   HEMP PRODUCTS. Hemp that has undergone a process whereby the plant material
has been transformed into a concentrate including, but not limited to,
concentrated hemp, or an edible or topical product containing hemp or
concentrated hemp and other ingredients.
   H.E.M.P. REGISTRATION. The annual registration with the County Agricultural
Commissioner required under this chapter, state, and/or federal law.
   LEGAL PARCEL. A parcel of real property for which one legal title exists
that may be separately sold in compliance with the Subdivision Map Act, Cal.
Gov’t Code §§ 66410 et seq.
   MANUFACTURE. To produce, prepare, propagate, or compound, or otherwise
blend, extract, or infuse hemp and/or a hemp product either directly or
indirectly, or by extraction methods, or independently by means of chemical
synthesis, or by a combination of extraction and chemical synthesis.
   MANUFACTURED HEMP. Raw hemp that has undergone a process whereby the raw
hemp has been transformed into a concentrate, extract, or other manufactured
product intended for internal consumption, through inhalation, oral ingestion,
or for topical application, or any other use in which the hemp is used,
including, but not limited to building material, food, fuel, medicine, paper,
plastic substitute, rope and textiles.
   NON-VOLATILE SOLVENT. Any solvent used in the extraction process that is not
a volatile solvent as defined in Cal. Health and Safety Code § 11362.3(b)(3).
NON-VOLATILE SOLVENT includes carbon dioxide (CO2) used for extraction and
ethanol, when used for extraction or post-extraction processing.
   OWNER. Any of the following:
      (1)   A person with an aggregate ownership interest of 20% or more in the
hemp entity seeking registration, unless the interest is solely a security,
lien, or encumbrance.
      (2)   The Chief Executive Officer, or other manager, of a non-profit or
other entity.
      (3)   A member of the board of directors of a non-profit.
      (4)   An individual who will be participating in the direction, control,
or management of the hemp entity seeking registration, or who has a financial
interest in the entity other than a fixed lease of real property.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, partnership, joint venture, association,
corporation, limited liability company, estate, trust, business, business
trust, receiver, syndicate, collective, cooperative, institution, or any other
group or entity, or combination acting as a unit, and the plural as well as the
singular.
   PREMISES. The designated structure(s) and land of a legal parcel specified
in the application that is owned, leased, used, possessed, or otherwise held
under the control of the registered hemp entity will be or is conducted. The
PREMISES shall be a contiguous area.
   RAW HEMP. Shall include hemp flowers, hemp leaves, or other categories of
harvested hemp, categories for unprocessed or frozen hemp or immature plants,
or hemp that is shipped directly to manufacturers.
   REGISTERED HEMP ENTITY. Any person who has properly registered a hemp entity
with the county pursuant to this chapter.
   REGISTERING AUTHORITY. The County Agricultural Commissioner who is
responsible for the issuance, renewal, or reinstatement of the H.E.M.P.
registration, and authorized to take disciplinary action against any registered
hemp entity.
   REGISTRANT. An owner applying for H.E.M.P. registration pursuant to this
chapter.
   SEED BREEDER. Registered hemp entity that develops seed cultivars intended
for sale or research.
   SEED CULTIVAR. A variety of hemp.
   SENSITIVE USE. Any of the following:
      (1)   CHURCH. A structure or leased portion of a structure, which is used
primarily for religious worship and related religious activities.
      (2)   Licensed child care facility.
      (3)   Licensed child care home.
      (4)   Licensed CHILD DAY CARE FACILITY means a facility that provides
non-medical care to children under 18 years of age in need of personal
services, supervision, or assistance essential for sustaining the activities of
daily living or for the protection of the individual on less than a 24-hour
basis. CHILD DAY CARE FACILITY includes:
         (a)   DAY CARE CENTER means any child day care facility other than a
family day care home, and includes infant centers, preschools, extended day
care facilities, and school-age child care centers.
         (b)    EMPLOYER-SPONSORED CHILD CARE CENTER means any child day care
facility at the employer's site of business operated directly or through a
provider contract by any person
or entity having one or more employees, and available exclusively for the care
of children of that employer, and of the officers, managers, and employees of
that employer.
         (c)   FAMILY DAY CARE HOME means a home that regularly provides care,
protection, and supervision for 14 or fewer children, in the provider's own
home, for periods of less than 24 hours per day, while the parents or guardians
are away, and is either a large family day care home or a small family day care
home.
      (5)   SCHOOL means an institution of learning for minors, whether public,
private, or charter, offering a regular course of instruction required by the
California Education Code, or any licensed child or day care facility. This
definition includes a nursery school, pre-school, transitional kindergarten,
kindergarten, elementary school, middle or junior high school, senior high
school, or any special institution of education, but it does not include a
vocational or professional institution of higher education, including a
community or junior college, college or university.
      (6)   SCHOOL BUS STOP means any location designated in accordance with
Cal. Code of Regulations § 1238, to receive school buses, as defined in Cal.
Vehicle Code § 233, or school pupil activity buses, as defined in Cal. Vehicle
Code § 546.
      (7)   SCHOOL EVACUATION SITE means any location designated by formal
action of the governing body, superintendent, or principal of any school as a
location to which juveniles are to be evacuated to, or are to assemble at, in
the event of an emergency or other incident at the school.
      (8)   YOUTH CENTER means any public or private facility that is primarily
used to host recreation or social activities for minors, including, but not
limited to:
         (a)   Private youth membership organizations or clubs, social service
teenage club facilities, video arcades where ten or more video games or game
machines or devices are operated and where minors are legally permitted to
conduct business, or similar amusement park facilities.
         (b)   A park, playground or recreational area specifically designed to
be used by children which has play equipment installed, including public
grounds designed for athletic activities such as baseball, softball, soccer, or
basketball or any similar facility located on a public or private school
grounds, or on city, county or state parks.
         (c)   This definition shall not include any private martial arts,
yoga, ballet, music, art studio or similar studio of this nature nor shall it
include any private gym, athletic training facility, pizza parlor, dentist's
office or doctor's office primarily serving children, or a location which is
primarily utilized as an administrative office or facility for youth programs
or organizations.
      (9)   YOUTH-ORIENTED FACILITY means elementary school, middle school,
high school, public park, any establishment that advertises in a manner that
identifies the establishment as catering to or providing services primarily
intended for minors, or the individuals who regularly patronize, congregate or
assemble at the establishment are predominately minors.
   VOLATILE SOLVENT. Any solvent that is or produces a flammable gas or vapor
that, when present in the air in sufficient quantities, will create explosive
or ignitable mixtures. Examples of VOLATILE SOLVENTS include, but are not
limited to, butane, hexane, and propane.
(Ord. 989, § 1, 2019)
§ 7.04.003 PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   Compliance with laws. It is unlawful and shall constitute a public
nuisance for anyone to engage in any commercial and/or research hemp activity
within the county without complying with all applicable state, federal, and
local laws and regulations pertaining to hemp entities, including the duty to
register the hemp entity with the County Agricultural Commissioner.
   (B)   Persons prohibited from registering under this chapter. The persons
set forth in §
7.04.005(B) shall be prohibited from registering a hemp entity in the county.
   (C)   Hemp exclusion zone. No outdoor hemp or cannabis cultivation, drying,
processing, or storage shall be conducted or permitted within a half mile of
the sphere of influence boundary of the Cities of Hollister or San Juan
Bautista. No hemp cultivation, drying, processing or storage shall be conducted
within a half mile of any permitted visitor-serving wine or hospitality site
(for example, tasting room, winery with tours, restaurant, hotel, bed and
breakfast) located within the San Benito Wine/Hospitality Priority Area, as
identified in the 2035 San Benito County General Plan, Figure 3-4, page 3-19.
No hemp cultivation may be conducted within 100 feet of any state highway.
Frontage of the cultivation area shall be fenced with a six-foot high fence
that provides a visual barrier or includes a six-foot high perennial vegetative
visual buffer at least six feet wide. Indoor hemp or cannabis cultivation
within a completely enclosed structure shall only be conducted within permitted
areas of the unincorporated county pursuant to Title 25 Zoning Map and
Districts and Title 19 Cannabis Business and Land Use.
   (D)   Hemp research entity hemp activities prohibition. All hemp activities
including, but not limited to cultivation, harvesting, processing, storage,
research, or testing conducted by any established agricultural research
institution or hemp research entity, as defined herein, are prohibited within
the County of San Benito.
(Ord. 989, § 1, 2019; Ord. 1,003, § 2, 2020; Ord. 1,005, § 2, 2020; Ord. 1074,
§ 3 (part), 2024)
§ 7.04.004 HEMP ENTITY MANAGEMENT PROGRAM (“H.E.M.P.”).
   (A)   There is hereby created the Hemp Entity Management Program
("H.E.M.P.") which shall be administered by the County Agricultural
Commissioner.
   (B)   The following classifications of registrations may be issued under the
H.E.M.P.: commercial hemp entity registration.
   (C)   The County Agricultural Commissioner or his/her designee(s) shall be
authorized to build and manage the H.E.M.P.
(Ord. 989, § 1, 2019)
§ 7.04.005 H.E.M.P. REGISTRATION.
   (A)   Registration required. No person may operate any hemp entity or engage
in any commercial hemp activity within the county unless the person has, at a
minimum, complied with all applicable state, federal, and local laws and
regulations pertaining to the hemp entity. All entities, except those engaged
in research hemp activities (properly licensed/permitted by the State of
California) shall have the duty to complete all of the following:
      (1)   Complete the H.E.M.P. registration with the County Agricultural
Commissioner;
      (2)   Pay the required registration or renewal fee; and
      (3)   Provide the Global Positioning System coordinates of the planned
cultivation site to the County Agricultural Commissioner.
   (B)   Prohibition. Divisions (B)(1), (B)(2) and (B)(5) shall not apply to
those persons whose only cannabis activity is that of cannabis testing.
      (1)   No person, except as set forth in division (B)(4), below, who has
obtained a cannabis
business permit under
Chapter 7.02 shall be permitted to register or operate under this chapter. This
prohibition shall extend as long as the cannabis business permit remains in
effect.
      (2)   No person that has obtained a cannabis business permit from another
other jurisdiction shall be allowed to register or operate under this chapter.
This prohibition shall extend as long as the cannabis business permit remains
in effect.
      (3)   No person that cultivates cannabis without a cannabis business
permit shall be allowed to register or operate under this chapter.
      (4)   Further, no person set forth in §
7.04.003(B) may register or operate a hemp entity under this chapter.
      (5)   No person engaged in any "personal use" cannabis activity or
commercial cannabis activity, including, but not limited to, cannabis
cultivation, manufacturing, or distribution, at any location, in San Benito
County or in any other jurisdiction, may conduct research hemp activity in San
Benito County.
   (C)   Laboratories. A person that has obtained a permit for laboratory
testing may register/operate a laboratory under this chapter, such that
laboratory testing of both cannabis and hemp at one facility may be permitted
subject to obtaining the necessary permits and registration and compliance with
all laws, rules and regulations.
   (D)   Drying, processing, storage or manufacturing facilities. A conditional
use permit in accordance with
Chapter 25.43 is required for any facility to be used for the drying,
processing, storage, or manufacturing of hemp. All such activities shall be
conducted in facilities that shall be located outside the exclusion zone
specified in §
7.04.003(C) and indoors in areas zoned AP, AR, CM, M-l, or M-2 and shall
include effective measures to control odors as specified in §
19.43.080(T). Hemp registrants engaged in drying, storage, processing, or
manufacturing shall also obtain a business license in accordance with
Chapter 7.01.
   (E)   Registration requirements. A registrant shall provide all of the
following information:
      (1)   The name, physical address, and mailing address of the applicant.
      (2)   The legal description, Global Positioning System coordinates, and
map of the land area on which the registrant plans to engage in commercial or
research hemp cultivation, storage, or both.
      (3)   The seed cultivar to be grown, including the state or county of
origin.
      (4)   Pay the registration fee set forth in division (F) below.
      (5)   A notarized written consent signed by the record owners of the
property where the cultivation is to be conducted.
   (F)   Fee; fee deposit. At the time of registration, each registrant shall
pay the registration fee established by state law and by resolution and/or
ordinance of the County Board of Supervisors, to cover all costs incurred by
the county to implement, administer, and enforce the provisions of this
chapter. Upon adoption of this chapter, until changed by the adoption of a
resolution or ordinance modifying the fee, the fee shall be that amount
established under state law (pursuant to Cal. Food and Agriculture Code § 81005
and 3 Cal. Code of Regulations § 4900 et seq.), as well as the County
Agricultural Commissioner's actual costs for which a $1,000 deposit shall be
provided at the time of registration.
   (G)   Amended registration. Any time a registered hemp entity wishes to
alter the land area where hemp is cultivated, or the seed cultivar used, the
following shall be required prior to implementing the change:
      (1)   Altered land area. Any time a registered hemp entity wishes to
alter the land area on
which it conducts hemp cultivation, storage, or both, shall, before altering
the area, submit to the County Agricultural Commissioner an updated legal
description, Global Positioning System coordinates, and map specifying the
proposed alteration. Once the County Agricultural Commissioner has received the
change to the registration, the County Agricultural Commissioner shall notify
the registered hemp entity that it is approved to cultivate hemp on the altered
land area. Any attempt to alter the area prior to the County Agricultural
Commissioner's approval shall cause the H.E.M.P. registration to be
automatically revoked.
      (2)   Changed seed cultivar. Any time a registered hemp entity wishes to
change the seed cultivar grown, it shall submit to the County Agricultural
Commissioner the name of the new, approved seed cultivar to be grown. Once the
County Agricultural Commissioner has received the change to the registration,
the County Agricultural Commissioner shall notify the registered hemp entity
that it is approved to cultivate the new seed cultivar. Any attempt to
cultivate the new seed cultivar prior to the County Agricultural Commissioner's
approval shall cause the H.E.M.P. registration to be automatically revoked.
   (H)   Transfer of H.E.M.P. registration. Registration of a hemp entity does
not create an entitlement, interest of value, does not run with the land, is
not transferable, and automatically terminates upon transfer of ownership. A
registered hemp entity shall not transfer ownership or control of any H.E.M.P.
registration to another person. Any attempt to do so shall cause the H.E.M.P.
registration to be automatically revoked.
   (I)   Expiration. Each H.E.M.P. registration under this chapter shall only
be valid for a term of 12 months. A H.E.M.P. registration may be renewed as
provided in §
7.04.006.
   (J)   Renewal. An application for renewal of a H.E.M.P. registration shall
be filed at least 60 calendar days prior to the expiration date of the current
registration. The renewal registration shall contain all the required
application information as set forth in division (C) of this section and the
registrant shall pay a renewal fee in an amount to be set by resolution and/or
ordinance by the County Board of Supervisors to cover the costs of processing
the renewal registration, together with any renewal fee established under state
law (pursuant to Cal. Food and Agriculture Code § 81005 and 3 Cal. Code of
Regulations §§ 4900 et seq.), as well as, any costs incurred by the county to
administer the H.E.M.P. created under this chapter.
   (K)   Denial, non-renewal, suspension, or revocation of H.E.M.P.
registration. The County Agricultural Commissioner may refuse to accept a
registration, including a renewal registration, for any premises upon which
research or commercial hemp activity is being conducted, or is proposed to be
conducted, in violation of this chapter. The acceptance of a registration
pursuant to this chapter shall not be deemed or construed to be a permit for or
approval of any violation of this chapter. The acceptance of a registration
shall not prevent the enforcing officer from thereafter requiring correction of
violations or from preventing research or commercial hemp activity being
carried out thereunder when in violation of this chapter.
(Ord. 989, § 1, 2019; Ord. 1,003, §§ 3 through 7, 2020; Ord. 1,005, § 2, 2020)
§ 7.04.006 FEES AND CHARGES; DEBT OWED TO COUNTY.
   (A)   No registrant may commence or continue any commercial or research hemp
activity in the county, without timely paying in full all fees and charges
required for the operation of a hemp entity. Fees and charges associated with
the operation of a hemp entity shall be established by resolution and/or
ordinance of the County Board of Supervisors which may be amended from time to
time.
   (B)   Registration application fee. An application for a H.E.M.P.
registration must be accompanied by a registration fee, plus fee deposit. All
work performed in reviewing a H.E.M.P. registration, consulting with the
applicant, conducting site inspections, reviewing changes in information
contained in the registration, and making determinations on the application
shall be billed to the registrant. In the case of subsequent changes in the
information contained in the initial registration, costs for reviewing the
amendment shall be billed against the deposit. A H.E.M.P. registration shall
not be granted to a hemp entity under this chapter until the registrant has
paid a non-refundable H.E.M.P. registration fee as set forth in state law, plus
a deposit as set forth in §
7.04.005. The purpose of this fee is to pay for the costs of implementing,
administering and enforcing the H.E.M.P.
   (C)   Fees deemed debt to the County of San Benito. The amount of any fee,
cost or charge imposed pursuant to this chapter shall be deemed a debt to the
County of San Benito that is recoverable via an authorized administrative
process as set forth in this code, or in any court of competent jurisdiction.
(Ord. 989, § 1, 2019)
§ 7.04.007 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS FOR HEMP ENTITIES.
   Each hemp entity subject to this chapter and shall conform to the county's
general plan goals and policies, any applicable specific plans, master plans,
and design requirements.
(Ord. 989, § 1, 2019)
§ 7.04.008 OPERATING REQUIREMENTS FOR CULTIVATORS.
   (A)   General. Each hemp entity cultivating hemp under this chapter and
shall operate only within those zone districts where such cultivation is
allowed pursuant to Title 25 of this code and shall comply with all applicable
zoning and related development standards, including, general and supplemental
development standards, and any operational standards applicable to hemp
entities.
   (B)   Odor and pollen drift mitigation. Each hemp entity cultivating hemp
shall design the land area used for cultivation in a manner that minimizes
odors and pollen drift to surrounding uses.
   (C)   Minimum premises size. The minimum size premises upon which a
commercial hemp entity may cultivate hemp is 20 acres. Two adjoining parcels
that together total 20 or more acres in size may be utilized to meet this
requirement.
   (D)   Setbacks. Except as provided in a variance granted in accordance with
division (D)(5) of this section, hemp entities cultivating hemp must meet all
of the following setback requirements:
      (1)   No less than 100 feet from any boundary line of the premises. This
setback requirement shall not apply:
         (a)   In an industrial zone; or
         (b)   Between contiguous parcels also engaging in hemp cultivation; or
         (c)   With a written agreement of neighboring property owners for a
reduced setback which must be recorded, is valid for one crop, and must be
renewed on an annual basis
      (2)   No closer than 1,000 feet from any parcel containing a sensitive
use that is in existence at the time the hemp entity is registered. The
distance measured shall be the horizontal distance measured in a straight line
from the property line of those parcels containing the sensitive use to the
closest area of cultivation, or location of other hemp activity, on the
property seeking registration under this chapter.
      (3)   No closer than 1,000 feet from any residentially developed parcel
in the county that is ten acres or less, including any legal non-conforming
residential uses as of the date of first adoption of this chapter. The distance
between the hemp entity and the residential parcel shall be measured from the
outer boundaries of the residential parcel to the closest area of cultivation
on the property seeking registration under this chapter. This setback
requirement shall not apply:
         (a)   In an industrial zone; or
         (b)   Between contiguous parcels also engaging in hemp cultivation; or
         (c)   With a written agreement of neighboring property owners for a
reduced setback which must be recorded, is valid for one crop, and must be
renewed on an annual basis
      (4)   No closer than 1,000 feet from any off-parcel permitted residence
in any zone that is in existence at the time of first adoption of this chapter,
if the hemp entity is located on a parcel that is 30 acres or less. The
distance between the hemp entity and the off-parcel residence shall be measured
from the outer boundaries of the residential parcel to the edge of the growing
area. This setback requirement shall not apply:
         (a)   In an industrial zone; or
         (b)   Between contiguous parcels also engaging in hemp cultivation; or
         (c)   With a written agreement of neighboring property owners for a
reduced setback which must be recorded, is valid for one crop, and must be
renewed on an annual basis.
      (5)   Variance. A person wishing to register a hemp entity may submit a
written application for variance to the Resources Management Agency for
consideration. Variance requests shall be referred to the Planning Commission
to determine whether or not to grant a variance in accordance with
Chapter 25.41 of this code, subject to all application forms and fees being
received by the Resources Management Agency. In accordance with
Chapter 25.41, the Planning Commission may decide whether the variance should
be granted or denied, as well as, to whether to impose certain reasonable
conditions upon any variance granted. If granted, the variance shall remain
valid for the time period and pursuant to the conditions specified by the
Planning Commission.
   (E)   Laboratory testing and destruction. Hemp entities shall comply with
all applicable provisions of the California Food and Agricultural Code and
federal law pertaining to hemp, including, but not limited to, cultivation,
laboratory testing, and destruction.
   (F)   Signage. Each hemp cultivation site shall post signage of a size and
with content and at intervals specified by the Agricultural Commissioner around
the entire exterior perimeter of the cultivation site to clearly identify that
the crop is industrial hemp and not cannabis.
   (G)   Transportation. No vehicle transporting harvested hemp plants or
products shall be driven or moved on any roadway unless the vehicle is so
constructed, covered, or loaded as to prevent any of its contents or load from
dropping, sifting, leaking, blowing, spilling, or otherwise escaping from the
vehicle.
   (H)   Post-harvest field treatment. Within no more than 30 days after
harvest, stalks or other remaining hemp plant material shall be shredded by a
power-driven shredder or other device that effectively reduces hemp plant
material to particle size, permitting rapid decomposition and incorporation
into the soil of the parcel where it has been cultivated. In the event that
rain or other inclement weather event makes post-harvest field treatment
impracticable in the opinion of the Agricultural Commissioner, the field
treatment shall occur as soon thereafter as is feasible, within a time frame
specified by the Agricultural Commissioner.
(Ord. 989, § 1, 2019; Ord. 1,003, §§ 8 through 11, 2020)
§ 7.04.009 [RESERVED].
§ 7.04.010 ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The Board of Supervisors (the "Board") adopts this chapter pursuant to
its police power for the purpose of preserving the health, safety and public
welfare of the residents of the county. The Board finds that agriculture is
extremely important to the county's economy and that insuring the continued
agricultural commodities is essential to the health and well-being of county
residents. The Board determines that the enforcement of this chapter is
essential.
   (B)   Each and every violation of the provisions of this chapter is hereby
deemed unlawful and a public nuisance.
   (C)   Consent to entry, inspection, and additional testing. Hemp registrants
consent, as a condition of issuance of any hemp registration, business license
or permit, to the entry by staff of the San Benito County Agricultural
Commissioner; officers of the San Benito County Sheriff; staff of the San
Benito County Department of Environmental Health; Code Enforcement Officers,
Building Inspectors and the Chief Building Official of the Department of
Planning and Building, Resource Management Agency; Fire Inspectors and the Fire
Marshal to make such inspections and to take such actions as may be necessary
to enforce the provisions of this chapter, this code, the laws of the State of
California, and the laws of the United States. Reasonable advance telephone
notice of entry shall be given, to the extent feasible under the circumstances,
or as otherwise authorized by law. To the extent reasonably necessary to verify
that the hemp contains less than .3% THC, hemp registrants consent to
additional testing by enforcement officials, which shall be at the cost and
expense of the registrant.
   (D)   Each and every violation of this chapter shall constitute a separate
violation and shall be subject to all remedies and enforcement measures
authorized by the county. Additionally, as a nuisance per se, any violation of
this chapter shall be subject to injunctive relief, any registration issued
pursuant to this chapter being deemed null and void, disgorgement and payment
to the county for any monies unlawfully obtained, costs of abatement, costs of
investigation, attorney fees, and any other relief or remedy available at law
or in equity. The county may also pursue any and all remedies and actions
available and applicable under state and local laws for any violations
committed by hemp entity or persons related to, or associated with, the hemp
entity.
   (E)   Each and every violation of the provisions of this chapter may in the
discretion of the District Attorney or County Attorney be prosecuted as a
misdemeanor and upon conviction be subject to a fine not to exceed $1,000 or
imprisonment in the county jail for a period of not more than six months, or by
both such fine and imprisonment. Each day a violation is committed or permitted
to continue shall constitute a separate offense.
   (F)   The remedies provided herein are not to be construed as exclusive
remedies. The county is authorized to pursue any proceedings or remedies
provided by law.
(Ord. 989, § 1, 2019; Ord. 1,003, §§ 12, 13, 2020)
§ 7.04.011 COMPLIANCE WITH STATE AND LOCAL LAWS.
   It shall be the responsibility of the owners and employees of the registered
hemp entity to ensure that it is, at all times, operating in a manner compliant
with all applicable state and local laws, and/or regulatory, licensing, or
certification requirements, and any specific, additional operating procedures
or requirements which may be imposed by the county. Nothing in this chapter
shall be construed as authorizing any actions that violate state or local law
regarding the operation of a hemp entity.
(Ord. 989, § 1, 2019)
§ 7.04.012 REGISTERED HEMP ENTITY RESPONSIBLE FOR VIOLATIONS.
   The registered hemp entity shall be responsible for any and all violations
of the state and/or local laws, as well as any the regulations promulgated
under this chapter, whether committed by the registered hemp entity or any
employee or agent of the registered hemp entity, which violations occur in or
about the registered hemp entity whether or not said violations occur within
the registered hemp entity's presence.
(Ord. 989, § 1, 2019)
§ 7.04.013 LIMITATIONS ON COUNTY’S LIABILITY.
   To the fullest extent permitted by law, the County of San Benito shall not
assume any liability whatsoever with respect to having registered any hemp
entity pursuant to this chapter.
(Ord. 989, § 1, 2019)
CHAPTER 7.05: COMMUNITY ANTENNA TELEVISION SYSTEMS AND STATE VIDEO SERVICE
FRANCHISES
Section
Article I. Community Antenna  Television Systems
   
7.05.001   Definitions
   
7.05.002   Franchise holders using telephone company facilities
   
7.05.003   Franchise; grant by Board of Supervisors
   
7.05.004   Same; application; application fee
   
7.05.005   Same; competitive bids
   
7.05.006   Same; action by Board of Supervisors
   
7.05.007   Same; limitation of purpose
   
7.05.008   Same; renewal
   
7.05.009   Same; effective date; acceptance
   
7.05.010   Same; use of streets and the like by grantee; use of private
property; pay television prohibited; authority of grantee as to rates and
charges to subscribers
   
7.05.011   Same; duration; grounds for termination
   
7.05.012   Same; payments to county by franchise holder
   
7.05.013   Rates and charges to subscribers
   
7.05.014   Conditions and limitations of franchise
   
7.05.015   Rights reserved to county
   
7.05.016   Permits, licenses and authorizations; installation of facilities;
commencement of service
   
7.05.017   Location of property and facilities of grantee
   
7.05.018   Changes required by public improvements
   
7.05.019   Failure to perform required street work
   
7.05.020   Removal and abandonment of grantee’s property
   
7.05.021   Bond required
   
7.05.022   Indemnification of county; liability insurance
   
7.05.023   Inspection of property and records of grantee; reports to county by
grantee
   
7.05.024   Operational standards
   
7.05.025   Miscellaneous provisions
   
7.05.026   Prohibited acts
Article II. State Video Service Franchises
   
7.05.027   General provisions
   
7.05.028   Definitions
   
7.05.029   Franchise fees
   
7.05.030   Customer service
   
7.05.031   Permits and construction
   
7.05.032   Emergency alert system
   
7.05.033   Public, educational, and government access channel capacity,
support, interconnection, and signal carriage
   
7.05.034   Notices
ARTICLE I. COMMUNITY ANTENNA TELEVISION SYSTEMS
§ 7.05.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following words and phrases shall have
the meanings respectively ascribed to them by this section.
   BOARD OF SUPERVISORS. The Board of Supervisors of the county.
   CATV. A community antenna television system, as hereinafter defined.
   COMMUNITY ANTENNA TELEVISION SYSTEM. A system of antennas, coaxial cables,
wires, wave guides or other conductors, equipment or facilities designed,
constructed or used for the purpose of providing television or FM radio service
by cable or through its facilities as herein contemplated. CATV shall not mean
or include the transmission of any special program or event for which a
separate and distinct charge is made to the subscriber in the manner commonly
known and referred to as PAY TELEVISION.
   COUNTY. The County of San Benito.
   FRANCHISE. Any authorization granted hereunder in terms of a franchise,
privilege, permit, license or otherwise to construct, operate and maintain a
CATV system in the county.
   GRANTEE. The person, firm or corporation to whom or which a franchise, as
hereinabove defined, is granted by the Board of Supervisors under this chapter,
and the lawful successor, transferee or assignee of the person, firm or
corporation.
   GROSS ANNUAL RECEIPTS. Any and all compensation and other consideration in
any form whatever, including installation and line extension charges, and any
contributing grant or subsidy received directly or indirectly by a grantee from
subscribers or users in payment for television or FM radio signals, or service
received within the service area. GROSS ANNUAL RECEIPTS shall not include any
taxes on services furnished by the grantee imposed directly on any subscriber
or user by any city, county, state or other governmental unit and collected by
the grantee for the governmental unit.
   PERSON. Any person, firm, association, partnership, joint venture,
organization, company, business trust or corporation.
   PROPERTY OF GRANTEE. All property owned, installed or used by a grantee in
the conduct of a CATV business in the county under the authority of a franchise
granted pursuant to this chapter.
   ROAD COMMISSIONER. The Road Commissioner of the county.
   SERVICE AREA. The portion of the unincorporated area of the county in which
a grantee has been granted a franchise.
   STREET. The surface of the space above and below any public street, road,
highway, freeway, lane, path, alley, court, sidewalk, parkway, drive, public
utility easement or easement or right-of-way held by the county now or
hereafter existing as such within the county.
   SUBSCRIBER. Any person or entity receiving for any purpose the CATV service
of a grantee.
(1966 Code, § 6A-1) (Ord. 312, § 1; Ord. 967, §§ 3, 4, 2018; Ord. 968, §§ 3, 4,
2018)
§ 7.05.002 FRANCHISE HOLDERS USING TELEPHONE COMPANY FACILITIES.
   When and in the event that the grantee of any franchise granted hereunder
uses, in his or her CATV system, distribution channels furnished to the grantee
by a telephone company whose facilities are constructed, operated and
maintained pursuant to its state-granted telephone franchise and the grantee
makes no use of the streets independent of the telephone company furnished
facilities, the grantee shall be required to comply with all of the provisions
of this chapter as a “licensee”. No provision of this chapter shall be deemed
or construed as requiring the granting of a franchise hereunder to a telephone
company furnishing such a channel service.
(1966 Code, § 6A-2) (Ord. 312, § 2; Ord. 967, §§ 3, 4, 2018; Ord. 968, §§ 3, 4,
2018)
§ 7.05.003 FRANCHISE; GRANT BY BOARD OF SUPERVISORS.
   (A)   A non-exclusive franchise to construct, operate and maintain a CATV
system within the service area may be granted by the Board of Supervisors to
any person, firm or corporation, whether operating under an existing franchise
or not, who or which offers to furnish and provide the system under and
pursuant to the terms and provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   No provisions of this chapter may be deemed or construed as to require
granting of a franchise when, in the opinion of the Board of Supervisors, it is
in the public interest not to do so or to restrict the number of grantees.
   (C)   Neither the granting of any non-exclusive franchise hereunder nor any
of the provisions contained herein shall be construed to prevent the county
from granting any identical, or similar, non- exclusive franchise to any
person, firm or corporation within all or any part of the unincorporated area
of the county.
(1966 Code, § 6A-3) (Ord. 312, § 3; Ord. 967, §§ 3, 4, 2018; Ord. 968, §§ 3, 4,
2018)
§ 7.05.004 SAME; APPLICATION; APPLICATION FEE.
   Application for a franchise hereunder shall be in writing, shall be
accompanied by an application fee of $150, shall be filed with the Clerk of the
Board of Supervisors for transmission to the Board and shall contain the
following information:
   (A)   The name and address of the applicant. If the applicant is a
partnership, the name and address of each partner shall also be set forth. If
the applicant is a corporation, the application shall also state the names and
addresses of its directors, main offices, major stockholders and associates and
the names and addresses of parent and subsidiary companies;
   (B)   A statement and description of the CATV system proposed to be
constructed, installed, maintained or operated by the applicant; the proposed
location of the system and its various components; the manner in which the
applicant proposes to construct, install, maintain and operate the same; and,
particularly, the extent and manner in which existing or future poles or other
facilities of other public utilities will be used for the system;
   (C)   A description, in detail, of the equipment or facilities proposed to
be constructed, installed and maintained and the proposed specific location
thereof;
   (D)   A map specifically showing and delineating the proposed service area
or areas within which the applicant proposes to provide CATV services and for
which a franchise is requested;
   (E)   A statement or schedule setting forth the number of channels and all
of the television or radio stations proposed to be received, transmitted,
conducted, relayed or otherwise conveyed over its system;
   (F)   A statement or schedule in a form approved by the Board of Supervisors
of proposed rates, charges, deposits and installation or connection charges to
subscribers for installation and services, and a copy of proposed service
agreement between the grantee and its subscribers shall accompany the
application. For unusual circumstances, such as underground cable required, or
more than 150 feet of distance from cable to connection of service to
subscribers, an additional installation charge over that normally charged for
installation, as specified in the applicant’s proposal, may be charged, with
easements to be supplied by subscribers. For remote, relatively inaccessible
subscribers within the county, service may be made available on the basis of
cost of materials, labor and easements if required by the grantee. The decision
of the Board of Supervisors as to what shall be remote or relatively
inaccessible under this division shall be final;
   (G)   A copy of any contract, if existing, between the applicant and any
public utility providing for the use of facilities of the public utility, such
as poles, lines or conduits;
   (H)   A statement setting forth all agreements and understandings, whether
written, oral or implied, existing between the applicant and any person, firm
or corporation with respect to the proposed franchise or the proposed CATV
operation. If a franchise is granted to a person, firm or corporation posing as
a front or as the representative of another person, firm or corporation, and
such information is not disclosed in the original application, the franchise
shall be deemed void and of no force and effect whatsoever;
   (I)   A financial statement prepared by a certified public accountant or
person otherwise satisfactory to the Board of Supervisors, showing applicant’s
financial status and his or her financial ability to complete the construction
and installation of the proposed CATV system; and
   (J)   The Board of Supervisors may at any time demand, and applicant shall
provide, such supplementary, additional or other information as the Board may
deem reasonably necessary to determine whether the requested franchise should
be granted.
(1966 Code, § 6A-4) (Ord. 312, § 4; Ord. 967, §§ 3, 4, 2018; Ord. 968, §§ 3, 4,
2018)
§ 7.05.005 SAME; COMPETITIVE BIDS.
   The Board of Supervisors may, in its discretion, in lieu of considering
applications for franchises hereunder, advertise for competitive bids for the
purchase of a franchise hereunder.
(1966 Code, § 6A-5) (Ord. 312, § 5; Ord. 967, §§ 3, 4, 2018; Ord. 968, §§ 3, 4,
2018)
§ 7.05.006 SAME; ACTION BY BOARD OF SUPERVISORS.
   Upon consideration of an application or bids for a franchise, the Board of
Supervisors may refuse to grant the requested franchise or the Board may, by
ordinance, grant a franchise for a CATV system to any such applicant or bidder
as may appear from such application or bids to be in its opinion best qualified
to render proper and efficient CATV service to television viewers and
subscribers in the county. The Board of Supervisors’ decision in the matter
shall be final.
(1966 Code, § 6A-6) (Ord. 312, § 6; Ord. 967, §§ 3, 4, 2018; Ord. 968, §§ 3, 4,
2018)
§ 7.05.007 SAME; LIMITATION OF PURPOSE.
   (A)   Any franchise granted pursuant to this chapter shall include the
following condition:
“The CATV system herein franchised shall be used and operated solely and
exclusively for the purpose expressly authorized by this chapter and no other
purpose whatsoever.”
   (B)   Inclusion of the foregoing statement in any such franchise shall not
be deemed to limit the authority of the county to include any other reasonable
condition, limitation or restriction which it may deem necessary to impose in
connection with the franchise pursuant to the authority conferred by this
chapter.
(1966 Code, § 6A-7) (Ord. 312, § 7; Ord. 967, §§ 3, 4, 2018; Ord. 968, §§ 3, 4,
2018)
§ 7.05.008 SAME; RENEWAL.
   Any franchise granted under this chapter is renewable at the application of
the grantee, in the same manner as required herein for obtaining the original
franchise, except those which are by their terms expressly inapplicable;
provided, however, that the Board of Supervisors may at its option waive
compliance with any or all of the requirements of §
7.05.004.
(1966 Code, § 6A-8) (Ord. 312, § 8; Ord. 967, §§ 3, 4, 2018; Ord. 968, §§ 3, 4,
2018)
§ 7.05.009 SAME; EFFECTIVE DATE; ACCEPTANCE.
   (A)   No franchise granted pursuant to the provisions of this chapter shall
become effective unless and until the ordinance granting the same has become
effective and, in addition, unless and until all things required in this
section and §§
7.05.021 and
7.05.022 are done and completed, all of the things being hereby declared to be
conditions precedent to the effectiveness of any such franchise granted
hereunder. In the event any of such things are not done and completed in the
time and manner required, the Board of Supervisors may declare the franchise
null and void.
   (B)   Within 30 days after the effective date of the ordinance awarding a
franchise or within the extended period of time as the Board of Supervisors, at
its discretion, may authorize, the grantee shall file with the Clerk of the
Board his or her written acceptance in form satisfactory to the District
Attorney, of the franchise, together with the bond and insurance policies
required by §§
7.05.021 and
7.05.022, respectively, and his or her agreement to be bound by and to comply
with and do all things required of him or her by the provisions of this chapter
and the franchise. The acceptance and agreement shall be acknowledged by the
grantee before a notary public and shall, in form and content, be satisfactory
to and approved by the District Attorney.
(1966 Code, § 6A-9) (Ord. 312, § 9; Ord. 967, §§ 3, 4, 2018; Ord. 968, §§ 3, 4,
2018)
§ 7.05.010 SAME; USE OF STREETS AND THE LIKE BY GRANTEE; USE OF PRIVATE
PROPERTY; PAY TELEVISION PROHIBITED; AUTHORITY OF GRANTEE AS TO RATES AND
CHARGES TO SUBSCRIBERS.
   (A)   Any franchise granted pursuant to the provisions of this chapter shall
authorize and permit the grantee to engage in the business of operating and
providing a CATV system in the described service area and for that purpose to
erect, install, construct, repair, replace, reconstruct, maintain and retain
in, on, over, under, upon, across and along any public street, the poles,
wires, cable, conductors, ducts, conduit, vaults, manholes, amplifiers,
appliances, attachments and other property as may be necessary and appurtenant
to the CATV system; and in addition, so to use, operate and provide similar
facilities or properties rented or leased from other persons, firms or
corporations, including but not limited to any public utility or other grantee
franchised or permitted to do business in the county.
   (B)   The granting of a franchise pursuant to this chapter shall not be
construed as permission or authority to enter on, occupy or otherwise utilize
private property without the express consent of the owner or agent in
possession thereof.
   (C)   No franchise granted hereunder shall be construed as a franchise,
permit or license to transmit any special program or event for which a separate
and distinct charge is made to the subscriber in the manner commonly known and
referred to as “pay television” and no grantee shall directly or indirectly
install, maintain or operate on any television set a coin box or any other
device or means for collection of money for individual programs.
   (D)   The grantee may charge subscribers for installation or connection to
its CATV system and may make a fixed monthly charge for service. All rates,
charges, deposits and installation or connection charges shall be approved by
the Board of Supervisors. No increase in the rates and charges to subscribers,
as set forth in the schedule filed and approved with grantee’s application, may
be made without the prior approval of the Board of Supervisors expressed by
resolution.
(1966 Code, § 6A-10) (Ord. 312, § 10; Ord. 967, §§ 3, 4, 2018; Ord. 968, §§ 3,
4, 2018)
§ 7.05.011 SAME; DURATION; GROUNDS FOR TERMINATION.
   (A)   No franchise granted by the Board of Supervisors under this chapter
shall be for a term longer than 20 years following the date of acceptance of
the franchise by the grantee or the renewal thereof.
   (B)   Any such franchise granted hereunder may be terminated prior to its
date of expiration by the Board of Supervisors in the event that the Board
shall have found, after 30 days’ notice of any proposed termination and public
hearing, that:
      (1)   The grantee has failed to comply with any provisions of this
chapter or has, by act or omission, violated any term or condition of any
franchise or permit issued hereunder; or
      (2)   Any provision of this chapter has become invalid or unenforceable
and the Board of Supervisors further finds that such provision constitutes a
consideration material to the grant of the franchise; or
      (3)   The county acquires the CATV system property of the grantee.
(1966 Code, § 6A-11) (Ord. 312, § 11; Ord. 967, §§ 3, 4, 2018; Ord. 968, §§ 3,
4, 2018)
§ 7.05.012 SAME; PAYMENTS TO COUNTY BY FRANCHISE HOLDER.
   (A)   Any grantee granted a franchise under this chapter shall pay to the
county, during the life of the franchise, a sum equal to 3% of the grantee’s
gross subscriber revenues from cable subscriptions in the county. The payment
by the grantee to the county shall be made annually or as otherwise provided in
the grantee’s franchise.
   (B)   The grantee shall file with the county, within 60 days after the
expiration of any calendar year or portion thereof during which the franchise
is in force, a financial statement prepared by a certified public accountant,
or person otherwise satisfactory to the Board of Supervisors, showing in detail
the gross annual receipts, as defined herein, of the grantee during the
preceding calendar year or portion thereof. It shall be the duty of the grantee
to pay to the county, within 15 days after the time for filing the statements,
the sum hereinabove prescribed or any unpaid balance thereof for the calendar
year or portion thereof covered by the statements. Any payment not made within
30 days after the date the payment is due shall result in further payment at
the rate of 1% per month.
   (C)   The county shall have the right to inspect the grantee’s records
showing the gross receipts from which its franchise payments are computed and
the right of audit and recomputation of any and all amounts paid under this
chapter. No acceptance of any payment shall be construed as a release or as an
accord and satisfaction of any claim the county may have for further or
additional sums payable under this chapter or for the performance of any other
obligation hereunder.
   (D)   In the event of any holding over after expiration or other termination
of any franchise granted hereunder, without the consent of the county, the
grantee shall pay to the county reasonable compensation and damages, of not
less than 100% of its total gross profits during the period.
(1966 Code, § 6A-12) (Ord. 312, § 12; Ord. 374; Ord. 967, §§ 3, 4, 2018; Ord.
968, §§ 3, 4, 2018)
§ 7.05.013 RATES AND CHARGES TO SUBSCRIBERS.
   (A)   The grantee may charge subscribers for installation and connection to
its CATV system and may make a fixed monthly charge for service, as filed and
approved as herein provided and as provided in the ordinance granting the
franchise.
   (B)   No increase in the rates and charges (excluding the composition of any
federal, state or local taxes) to subscribers, as set forth in the schedule
filed and approved with grantee’s application, may be made without the prior
approval of the Board of Supervisors expressed by resolution.
   (C)   A grantee shall not file an application for an increase in rates and
charges until 12 months have expired from the time grantee is first granted a
franchise.
   (D)   A grantee shall not file more than one application for an increase in
rates and charges during any calendar year.
   (E)   For unusual circumstances, such as underground cable required, or more
than 150 feet of distance from cable to connection of service to subscriber, an
additional installation charge over that normally charged for installation as
specified in the applicant’s proposal may be charged, with easements, if
required, to be supplied by subscribers.
   (F)   For remote, relatively inaccessible subscribers within the service
area the installation of service may be made on the basis of cost of materials,
labor and easements if required by grantee, and special charges may be
established for service.
   (G)   If in the future, the state regulates the rates of the grantee for the
service provided in this chapter, during the period of the state regulations,
to the extent of any conflict therewith, this section shall be of no effect.
(1966 Code, § 6A-13) (Ord. 312, § 13; Ord. 967, §§ 3, 4, 2018; Ord. 968, §§ 3,
4, 2018)
§ 7.05.014 CONDITIONS AND LIMITATIONS OF FRANCHISE.
   (A)   Any franchise granted under this chapter shall be non-exclusive.
   (B)   No privilege or exemption shall be granted or conferred by any
franchise granted under this chapter except those specifically prescribed
herein.
   (C)   Any privilege claimed under the franchise by the grantee in any street
or other public property shall be subordinate to any prior lawful occupancy of
the streets or other public property.
   (D)   Any such franchise shall be a privilege to be held in personal trust
by the original grantee. It cannot in any event, be sold, transferred, leased,
assigned or disposed of, whole or in part either by forced or involuntary sale,
or by voluntary sale, merger, consolidation, by change in control of a
corporation or company, stock transfer, transfer in trust, mortgage or other
hypothecation, or otherwise, without the prior consent of the Board of
Supervisors expressed by resolution, and then only under such conditions as may
therein be prescribed. Any such transfer or assignment shall be made only by an
instrument in writing, a duly executed copy of which shall be filed in the
office of the county and local within 30 days after any such transfer or
assignment. The consent of the Board of Supervisors may not be arbitrarily
refused; provided, however, that the proposed assignee must show financial
responsibility and must agree to comply with all provisions of the ordinance;
and, provided further, that no such consent shall be required for a transfer in
trust, mortgage or other hypothecation as a whole, to secure an indebtedness.
   (E)   Time shall be of the essence of any such franchise granted hereunder.
The grantee shall not be relieved of his or her obligation to comply promptly
with any of the provisions of this chapter or by any failure of the county to
enforce prompt compliance.
   (F)   Any right or power in, or duty impressed upon, any officer, employee,
department of board of the county shall be subject to transfer by the county to
any other officer, employee, department or board of the county.
   (G)   The grantee shall have no recourse whatsoever against the county for
any loss, cost, expense or damage arising out of any provision or requirement
of this chapter or of any franchise issued hereunder or because of its
enforcement.
   (H)   The grantee shall be subject to all provisions, rules, regulations and
conditions prescribed by federal, state, county and local law heretofore or
hereafter enacted or established during the term of any franchise granted
hereunder. Copies of all petitions, applications and communications submitted
by the grantee to the Federal Communications Commission, Securities and
Exchange Commission or any other federal or state regulatory commission or
agency having jurisdiction in respect to any matters effecting CATV operations
authorized pursuant to this franchise shall also be submitted simultaneously to
the Clerk of the Board of Supervisors.
   (I)   Any such franchise granted shall not relieve the grantee of any
obligation involved in obtaining pole space from any department of the county,
utility company or from others maintaining poles in streets.
   (J)   Any franchise granted hereunder shall be in lieu of any and all other
rights, privileges, powers, immunities and authorities owned, possessed,
controlled or exercisable by grantee, or any successor to any interest of
grantee, of or pertaining to the construction, operation or maintenance of any
CATV system in the county, and the acceptance of any franchise hereunder shall
operate as between grantee and the county as an abandonment of any and all of
the rights, privileges, powers, immunities and authorities within the county,
to the effect that as between grantee and the county, any and all construction,
operation and maintenance by any grantee of any CATV system in the county shall
be, and shall be deemed and construed in all instances and respects to be,
under and pursuant to the franchise, and not under or pursuant to any other
right, privilege, power, immunity or authority whatsoever.
(1966 Code, § 6A-14) (Ord. 312, § 14; Ord. 967, §§ 3, 4, 2018; Ord. 968, §§ 3,
4, 2018)
§ 7.05.015 RIGHTS RESERVED TO COUNTY.
   (A)   Nothing herein shall be deemed or construed to impair or affect, in
any way, to any extent, the right of the county to acquire the property of the
grantee, either by purchase or through the exercise of the right of eminent
domain, at a fair and just value, which shall not include any amount for the
franchise itself or for any of the rights or privileges granted, and nothing
herein contained shall be construed to contract away or to modify or abridge,
either for a term or in perpetuity, the county right of eminent domain.
   (B)   There is hereby reserved to the county every right and power which is
required to be herein reserved or provided by any ordinance of the county, and
the grantee, by its acceptance of any franchise, agrees to be bound thereby and
to comply with any action or requirements of the county in its exercise of such
rights or power, heretofore or hereafter enacted or established.
   (C)   Neither the granting of any franchise hereunder nor any of the
provisions contained herein shall be construed to prevent the county from
granting any identical, or similar, franchise to any other person, firm or
corporation within all or any portion of a service area.
   (D)   There is hereby reserved to the county the power to amend any section
or part of this chapter so as to require additional bonding, insurance or
greater standards of construction, operation, maintenance or otherwise, on the
part of the grantee.
   (E)   Neither the granting of any franchise nor any provision hereof shall
constitute a waiver or bar to the exercise of any governmental right or power
of the county.
   (F)   The Board of Supervisors may do all things which are necessary and
convenient in the exercise of its jurisdiction under this chapter and may
determine any question of fact which may arise during the existence of any
franchise granted hereunder. Such person as the Board of Supervisors may
designate is hereby authorized and empowered to adjust, settle or compromise
any controversy or charge arising from the operations of any grantee under this
chapter, either on behalf of the county, the grantee or any subscriber, in the
best interest of the public. Either the grantee, or any member of the public
who may be dissatisfied with the decision of the person may appeal the matter
to the Board of Supervisors for hearing and determination. The Board of
Supervisors may accept, reject or modify the decision, and may adjust, settle
or compromise any controversy or cancel any charge arising from the operations
of any grantee or from any provision of this chapter.
   (G)   The county shall have the right, free of any charge, to install and
maintain on the distribution system of grantee any wire and fixtures convenient
or necessary for a police or fire alarm system on the condition that the wire
and fixtures do not interfere with the CATV operations of the grantee.
   (H)   In addition to all other rights and powers pertaining to the county by
virtue of any franchise or otherwise, the county reserves the right to
terminate and cancel any franchise and all rights and privileges of the grantee
thereunder in the event that the grantee:
      (1)   Violates any provision of this chapter or any franchise or any
rule, order or determination of the county or Board of Supervisors made
pursuant to a franchise;
      (2)   Becomes insolvent or is adjudged a bankrupt; or
      (3)   Attempts to evade any of the provisions of this chapter or
practices any fraud or deceit upon the county.
(1966 Code, § 6A-15) (Ord. 312, § 15; Ord. 967, §§ 3, 4, 2018; Ord. 968, §§ 3,
4, 2018)
§ 7.05.016 PERMITS, LICENSES AND AUTHORIZATIONS; INSTALLATION OF FACILITIES;
COMMENCEMENT OF SERVICE.
   (A)   Within 60 days after acceptance of any franchise the grantee shall
make application for and diligently pursue the obtaining of all necessary
permits, licenses and authorizations which are required in the conduct of its
business, including, but not limited to, any utility joint use attachment
agreements, microwave carrier licenses and any other permits, licenses and
authorizations to be granted by duly constituted regulatory agencies having
jurisdiction over the operation of CATV system, their associated microwave
transmission facilities, or any other associated facility.
   (B)   The grantee shall commence construction and installation of the CATV
system within 90 days after obtaining all necessary permits, licenses and
authorizations.
   (C)   The grantee shall give at least 15 days written notice to the Road
Commissioner prior to the commencement of construction and installation of any
portion of its CATV system. The notice shall describe the portion of the
service area in which grantee intends to render service and describe the
construction and installation to be performed. The grantee shall pursue with
reasonable diligence the construction and installation of the CATV system
within the portion of the service area described in the notice so that service
shall be provided within one year from the date of the notice. The grantee
shall file a written report with the Road Commissioner describing the portion
of the service area in which the grantee is capable of providing service.
   (D)   After written notice to the grantee and an opportunity for the grantee
to be heard, the Board of Supervisors may give the grantee written notice to
commence and thereafter pursue the work of installing equipment and facilities
reasonably necessary to provide adequate and satisfactory service within a
designated portion of the service area of the grantee within a reasonable time
to be determined by the Board of Supervisors.
   (E)   Failure on the part of the grantee to commence and diligently pursue
each of the foregoing requirements and to complete each of the matters set
forth herein, shall be grounds for termination of the franchise, under and
pursuant to the terms of §
7.05.011; provided, however, that the Board of Supervisors, in its discretion,
may extend the time for obtaining of permits and authorizations and for the
commencement and completion of construction and installation for additional
periods in the event the grantee, acting in good faith, experiences delays by
reason of circumstances beyond his or her control.
(1966 Code, § 6A-16) (Ord. 312, § 16; Ord. 967, §§ 3, 4, 2018; Ord. 968, §§ 3,
4, 2018)
§ 7.05.017 LOCATION OF PROPERTY AND FACILITIES OF GRANTEE.
   (A)   Any poles, wires, cable lines, conduits or other properties of the
grantee to be constructed or installed in streets, shall be so constructed or
installed only at such locations and in such manner as shall be approved by the
Road Commissioner acting in the exercise of his or her reasonable discretion.
   (B)   The grantee shall not install or erect any facilities or apparatus in
or on other public property, places or rights-of-way or within any privately-
owned area within the county which has not yet become a public street but is
designated or delineated as a proposed public street on any tentative
subdivision map approved by the county, except those installed or erected upon
public utility facilities now existing, without obtaining the prior written
approval of the Road Commissioner.
   (C)   In those areas and portions of the county where the transmission or
distribution facilities of both the public utility providing telephone service
and those of the utility providing electric service are underground or
hereafter may be placed underground, then the grantee shall likewise construct,
operate and maintain all of its transmission and distribution facilities
underground. For the purposes of this division, “underground” shall include a
partial underground system, e.g., streamlining. Amplifiers in grantee’s
transmission and distribution lines may be in appropriate housings upon the
surface of the ground as approved by the Road Commissioner. The county shall
not in any manner be responsible for any costs incurred by the grantee in
placing the grantee’s facilities underground.
   (D)   Any poles, wires, cable lines, conduits or other properties of the
grantee to be constructed or installed in streets shall be so located as to
cause minimum interference with the proper uses of streets, and cause minimum
interference with the rights and reasonable convenience of property owners who
adjoin any of the streets.
   (E)   In case of disturbance of any street, the grantee shall, at its own
cost and expense and in a manner approved by the Road Commissioner, replace and
restore such street in as good a condition as before the work involving such
disturbance was done.
   (F)   Any poles or other fixture placed in any street by the grantee shall
be placed in such manner as not to interfere with the usual travel on the
public way.
   (G)   No poles or other wire-holding structures shall be erected by the
grantee without prior approval of the Road Commissioner with regard to
location, height, type and any other pertinent aspect. However, no location of
any pole or wire-holding structure of the grantee shall be a vested interest,
and the poles or structures shall be removed or modified by the grantee, at its
own expense, whenever the Road Commissioner determines that the public
convenience would be enhanced thereby.
   (H)   Where the county or a public utility serving the county desires to
make use of the poles or other wire-holding structures of the grantee but
agreement therefor with the grantee cannot be reached, the Board of Supervisors
may require the grantee to permit the use for the consideration and upon such
terms as the Board shall determine to be just and reasonable, if the Board
determines that the use would enhance the public convenience and would not
unduly interfere with the grantee’s operations.
   (I)   The county shall have the right to supervise all construction or
installation work performed subject to the provisions of any franchise and make
an inspection as it shall find necessary to insure compliance with the terms of
any franchise and other pertinent provisions of law.
   (J)   Upon request of the Board of Supervisors, the grantee shall make
available one channel for educational television, public service television or
any other non-commercial service for the benefit of the residents of the
county.
(1966 Code, § 6A-17) (Ord. 312, § 17; Ord. 967, §§ 3, 4, 2018; Ord. 968, §§ 3,
4, 2018)
§ 7.05.018 CHANGES REQUIRED BY PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS.
   The grantee shall, at its expense, protect, support, temporarily disconnect,
relocate in the same street or other public place or remove from the street or
other public place, any property of the grantee when required by the Road
Commissioner by reason of traffic conditions, public safety, street vacation,
freeway and street construction, change or establishment of street grade,
installation of sewers, drains, water pipes, power lines, signal lines and
tracks or any other type of structures or improvements by public agencies;
provided, however, that the grantee shall, in all such cases, have the
privileges and be subject to the obligations to abandon any property of the
grantee in place, as provided in §
7.05.020.
(1966 Code, § 6A-18) (Ord. 312, § 18; Ord. 967, §§ 3, 4, 2018; Ord. 968, §§ 3,
4, 2018)
§ 7.05.019 FAILURE TO PERFORM REQUIRED STREET WORK.
   Upon failure of the grantee to commence, pursue or complete any work
required by law or by the provisions of this chapter or by its franchise to be
done in any street or other public place, within the time prescribed, and to
the satisfaction of the Road Commissioner, the Road Commissioner may, at his or
her option, cause the work to be done, and the grantee shall pay to the county
the cost thereof in the itemized amounts reported by the Road Commissioner to
the grantee within 30 days after receipt of the itemized report.
(1966 Code, § 6A-19) (Ord. 312, § 19; Ord. 967, §§ 3, 4, 2018; Ord. 968, §§ 3,
4, 2018)
§ 7.05.020 REMOVAL AND ABANDONMENT OF GRANTEE’S PROPERTY.
   (A)   In the event that the use of any part of the CATV system is
discontinued for any reason for a continuous period of 12 months, has been
installed in any street or public place without complying with the requirements
of grantee’s franchise or this chapter, or the franchise has been terminated,
cancelled or has expired, the grantee shall promptly, upon being given ten
days’ notice, remove from the streets or public places all such property and
poles of the system other than any which the Road Commissioner may permit to be
abandoned in place. In the event of the removal, the grantee shall promptly
restore the street or other area from which the property has been removed to a
condition satisfactory to the Road Commissioner.
   (B)   Any property of the grantee remaining in place 60 days after the
termination or expiration of the franchise shall be considered permanently
abandoned. The Road Commissioner may extend such time not to exceed an
additional 30 days.
   (C)   Any property of the grantee to be abandoned in place shall be
abandoned in such manner as the Road Commissioner shall prescribe. Subject to
the provisions of any utility joint use attachment agreement, upon permanent
abandonment of the property of the grantee in place, the property shall become
that of the county and the grantee shall submit to the Board of Supervisors an
instrument in writing to be approved by the District Attorney, transferring to
the county the ownership of the property.
(1966 Code, § 6A-20) (Ord. 312, § 20; Ord. 967, §§ 3, 4, 2018; Ord. 968, §§ 3,
4, 2018)
§ 7.05.021 BOND REQUIRED.
   (A)   The grantee shall, concurrently with filing of an acceptance of award
of any franchise granted under this chapter, file with the Clerk of the Board
of Supervisors and at all times thereafter maintain in full force and effect
for the term of the franchise or any renewal thereof, at the grantee’s sole
expense, a corporate surety bond in a company authorized to do business in the
state and in a form approved by the District Attorney in the amount of $25,000,
renewable annually and conditioned upon the faithful performance of the grantee
and upon the further condition that in the event the grantee shall fail to
comply with any one or more of the provisions of this chapter, or of any
franchise issued to the grantee hereunder, there shall be recoverable jointly
and severally from the principal and surety of the bond any damages or loss
suffered by the county as a result thereof, including the full amount of any
compensation, indemnification or cost of removal or abandonment of any property
of the grantee as prescribed hereby which may be in default, plus a reasonable
allowance for attorney’s fees and costs, up to the full amount of the bond; the
condition to be a continuing obligation for the duration of the franchise and
any renewal thereof and thereafter until the grantee has liquidated all of its
obligations with the county that may have arisen from its exercise of any
privilege therein granted. The bond shall provide that 30 days’ prior written
notice of intention now to renew, cancellation or material change, be given to
the county.
   (B)   Neither the provisions of this section, nor any bond accepted by the
county pursuant hereto, nor any damages recovered by the city thereunder, shall
be construed to excuse faithful performance by the grantee or limit the
liability of the grantee under any franchise issued hereunder or for damages
either to the full amount of the bond or otherwise.
(1966 Code, § 6A-21) (Ord. 312, § 21; Ord. 967, §§ 3, 4, 2018; Ord. 968, §§ 3,
4, 2018)
§ 7.05.022 INDEMNIFICATION OF COUNTY; LIABILITY INSURANCE.
   (A)   The grantee shall indemnify and save harmless the county, its officers
and employees from and against any and all claims, demands, actions, suits and
proceedings by others, against all liability to others, including, but not
limited to any liability for damages by reason of or arising out of any failure
by the grantee to secure consent from the owners, authorized distributors or
licensees of programs to be delivered by the grantee’s CATV system, and against
any loss, cost, expense and damages resulting therefrom, including reasonable
attorney’s fees, arising out of the exercise or enjoyment of its franchise.
   (B)   The grantee shall indemnify and save harmless the county, its
officers, boards, commissions, agents and employees from and against any and
all liability claims, demands, actions, suits and proceedings by others, for
loss or damage, for personal injury, death and property damage, occasioned by
the operations of grantee under this chapter and any franchise granted
hereunder; and the grantee shall at all times during the existence of any
franchise granted hereunder, maintain in full force and effect, at its own cost
and expense, a general comprehensive liability insurance policy protecting the
county and all persons against liability for loss or damage for personal
injury, death and property damage, occasioned by the operation of grantee under
this chapter and any franchise granted hereunder, with minimum liability limits
of $300,000 for personal injury or death of any one person, $500,000 for
personal injury or death of two or more persons in any one occurrence, and
$100,000 for damage to property resulting from any one occurrence. The grantee
shall, concurrently with the filing of an acceptance of award of any franchise
granted under this chapter, file with the Clerk of the Board of Supervisors
either a copy of the policy or a certificate of insurance evidencing the same
in a form satisfactory to the District Attorney. The policy of insurance, and
any certificate evidencing the same, shall contain a contractual liability
endorsement specifically extending the policy to cover the liability assumed by
grantee under this division, and shall also contain a provision that the policy
may not be cancelled except after 30 days notice in writing to be given to the
Clerk of the Board of Supervisors.
(1966 Code, § 6A-22) (Ord. 312, § 22; Ord. 967, §§ 3, 4, 2018; Ord. 968, §§ 3,
4, 2018)
§ 7.05.023 INSPECTION OF PROPERTY AND RECORDS OF GRANTEE; REPORTS TO COUNTY BY
GRANTEE.
   (A)   At all reasonable times, the grantee shall permit any duly authorized
representative of the county to examine all property of the grantee, together
with any appurtenant property of the grantee situated within or without the
county, and to examine and transcribe any and all maps and other records kept
or maintained by the grantee or under its control which deal with the
operations, affairs, transactions or property of the grantee with respect to
its franchise. If any such maps or records are not kept in the county, or upon
reasonable request made available in the county, and if the Board of
Supervisors shall determine that an examination thereof is necessary or
appropriate, then all travel and maintenance expense necessarily incurred in
making the examination shall be paid by the grantee.
   (B)   The grantee shall prepare and furnish to the Road Commissioner, at the
time and in the form prescribed by the officer, the reports with respect to its
operations, affairs, transactions or property, as may be reasonably necessary
or appropriate to the performance of any of the rights, functions or duties of
the county or any of its officers in connection with the franchise.
   (C)   The grantee shall, at all times, make and keep in its local office
full and complete plans and records showing the exact location of all CATV
system equipment installed or in use in streets and other public places in the
county.
   (D)   The grantee shall file with the Road Commissioner on or before the
last day in June of each year, a current map or set of maps drawn to scale,
showing all CATV system equipment installed and in place in streets and other
public places in the county on base maps approved by the Road Commissioner.
   (E)   When any portion of the CATV system is to be installed on public
utility poles and facilities, certified copies of all agreements for the joint
use of poles and facilities shall be filed with the Road Commissioner.
(1966 Code, § 6A-23) (Ord. 312, § 23; Ord. 967, §§ 3, 4, 2018; Ord. 968, §§ 3,
4, 2018)
§ 7.05.024 OPERATIONAL STANDARDS.
   The CATV system shall be installed and maintained in accordance with the
highest and best accepted standards of the CATV industry, to the effect that
subscribers shall receive the highest quality service technically possible. In
determining the satisfactory extent of the standards, the following, among
others, shall be considered as minimum requirements:
   (A)   The CATV system shall be installed using all band equipment capable of
passing the entire VHF television and FM broadcast spectrum (i.e., no less than
50 to 220 MHZ, including the so-called “mid-band” region); and further, it
shall have the capability of converting the UHF television broadcasting range
to channels between 50 and 220 MHZ for distribution to subscribers.
   (B)   Signals shall be transmitted from the antenna origination point to all
subscriber tap-off points, regardless of location on the distribution portion
of the system, without the introduction of any noticeable degradation of color
fidelity, picture intelligence or audio distortion. Color phase shift
introduced by system components between the off-the-air receiving antennas and
the customer tap-off point shall not exceed two degrees under any
circumstances, on a cumulative basis.
   (C)   The system and all equipment in the system shall be designed and rated
for continuous 24 hour per day operation.
   (D)   (1)   The system shall provide a signal level of not less than 2,000
microvolts, as measured across 72 ohms at the subscriber’s television receiver,
on the highest channel (by frequency) carried by the system and not less than
1,500 microvolts on the lowest channel (by frequency) carried on the system to
all color television receivers connected to the system. No channel shall exceed
the highest and lowest values for the highest and lowest channels by more than
.5 db for more than 50% of the time. The system shall provide equivalent
service levels of not less than 1,500 microvolts on the highest channel and not
less than 1,000 microvolts on the lowest channel (both as measured across the
72 ohm drop cable) to all black and white receivers connected to the system.
      (2)   The system shall provide a minimum signal of not less than 200
microvolts on the lowest intensity FM channel (as measured at the customer
service drop termination point) delivered, and a maximum signal intensity of
not more than three db greater level than the lowest intensity FM channel
delivered by the cable, (i.e., all FM channels carried by the system shall be
flat to within three db from the lowest and highest FM channels carried, and
the lowest of these shall be not lower than 200 microvolts across 72 ohms).
   (E)   The system design and operation shall exhibit a signal plus noise, to
noise, ratio of not less than 40 decibels as measured at the extremities of all
trunk and customer distribution lines covering the service area or areas.
   (F)   Plum modulation of the picture (video) carrier shall not exceed 5% at
any point in the system.
   (G)   All active components in the system shall have a VSW11 not to exceed
one and one-half to one. All passive devices in the system shall have input,
output and return losses of not less than 20 db.
   (H)   The system shall maintain a minimum video carrier to aural carrier
ratio of 15 db and a maximum video carrier to aural carrier ratio of 18 db for
all television channels. This video carrier to aural carrier relationship shall
be established in such a manner that the color subcarrier, if present, to video
carrier relationship shall not be degraded below its as-received off-the-air
ratio by more than 0.25 db.
   (I)   Carriage of so-called local channels shall be accomplished in such a
way that these channels, as delivered to the system subscribers, if delivered
on-channel, shall be at least 40 db stronger as measured at the customer
receiver tuner input terminals than any stray direct pickup from these
channels. If this is not possible, channel conversion of these stations shall
be made to utilize other regular VHF channels, mid-band or octave channels for
the delivery of these stations to the customer’s receivers.
   (J)   (1)   The system shall be designed in such a way that 20 channel
operation is possible at the outset, utilizing either mid-band frequencies or
octave frequency groupings. If so-called mid-band frequencies for cable
carriage of one or more channels are utilized, it shall be demonstrated that
the carriage is possible in the service area or areas without introduction into
the cable transmission lines of direct pick up from radio services operating in
the mid-band region, which would tend to interfere with the carriage of one or
more proposed television channels in this frequency range.
      (2)   If the octave-frequency grouping method of providing spectrum space
for additional channels (more than the 12 regular VHF channels) is utilized, it
shall be demonstrated that the equipment is operational and available for
delivery.
   (K)   The system shall be capable of producing a picture, whether in black
and white or in color, which is undistorted, free from ghost images and
accompanied with proper sound on typical standard production TV sets in good
repair, and as good as the state of the art allows.
   (L)   The facilities used by the grantee shall be capable of distributing
color TV signals, and when the signals the grantee distributes are received in
color they shall be distributed in color.
   (M)   The system shall transmit signals of adequate strength to produce good
pictures with good sound at all outlets without causing cross-modulation in the
cables or interfering with other electrical or electronic systems.
   (N)   In the event the Board of Supervisors determines that the quality of
service being rendered by the grantee is not equal to comparable systems
delivering service in the state, the grantee, upon written notice from the
Board of Supervisors, shall with due diligence, do whatever is necessary to
bring its service up to such standards.
   (O)   The grantee shall, at all times during the term of any franchise
granted under this chapter, at its own cost and expense, properly and in good
workmanlike manner, install and maintain adequate shielding, filtering and
grounding at affected installations within the CATV system to eliminate
television interference encountered from fundamental frequency overload by
radio amateur transmissions which are in compliance with the Federal
Communications Commission regulations.
(1966 Code, § 6A-24) (Ord. 312, § 24; Ord. 967, §§ 3, 4, 2018; Ord. 968, §§ 3,
4, 2018)
§ 7.05.025 MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS.
   (A)   When not otherwise prescribed herein, all matters herein required to
be filed with the county shall be filed with the Clerk of the Board of
Supervisors.
   (B)   The grantee shall, without charge, provide all subscriber services of
its system, including a multiple connection service to all public and non-
profit private schools, county Sheriff’s offices and substations, county fire
stations, county recreation centers and such other buildings owned or
controlled by the county, which shall, from time to time, be designated by the
Board of Supervisors, provided the buildings are located within the service
area or areas of any franchise granted to the grantee under this chapter, or
within the service area or areas of any other franchise granted to the grantee
within the county, including incorporated areas thereof, by any other
legislative body or agency thereof. The grantee shall install, without charge
to the county or the public or private schools, up to 200 feet of service
connection from the transmission cable otherwise maintained or required to be
maintained by the grantee for the service of paying subscribers of the grantee.
The county, or any such public or private schools shall pay to the grantee the
costs of all labor and materials supplied by the grantee for the installation
of any service connection in excess of the initial 200 feet.
   (C)   In the case of any emergency or disaster, the grantee shall, upon
request of the Board of Supervisors, make available its facilities to the
county for emergency use during the emergency or disaster period.
   (D)   The grantee shall not engage, directly or indirectly, in the business
of selling, leasing, renting, furnishing, providing, repairing or servicing any
television, radio or other receiving apparatus or any component part thereof
within the county, and such prohibition shall extend and apply to the officers
and directors of the grantee, to all general and limited partners of the
grantee, to any person or combination of persons owning, holding or controlling
5% or more of any corporate stock or other ownership interest of the grantee,
or any affiliated or subsidiary entity, owned or controlled by the grantee, or
in which any officer, director, stockholder, general or limited partner or
person or group of persons holding or controlling any ownership interest in the
grantee, shall own, hold or control 5% or more of any corporate stock or other
ownership interest; and the prohibition shall likewise apply to any person,
firm or corporation acting or serving in the capacity of a holding or
controlled company of the grantee.
   (E)   The grantee shall be prohibited from deleting, revising, adding to or
substituting any program of any television or FM radio broadcast station
carried by the grantee, whether with or without the consent of the station,
without the prior written approval for good cause shown of the Board of
Supervisors and then only upon such terms as the Board of Supervisors shall
prescribe.
   (F)   The grantee shall maintain an office within the county so that CATV
maintenance service shall be promptly available to subscribers upon telephone
request.
   (G)   No person, firm or corporation in the existing service area of the
grantee shall be arbitrarily refused service; provided, however, that the
grantee shall not be required to provide service to any subscriber who does not
pay the applicable connection fee or monthly service charge.
   (H)   (1)   Before the grantee shall provide service to any subscriber, the
grantee shall obtain a signed contract from the subscriber containing a
provision substantially as follows:
   “Subscriber understands that in providing service grantee is to make use of
public rights-of-way within the county, and that the continued use of these
public rights-of-way is in no way guaranteed. In the event the continued use of
such rights-of-way is denied to grantee for any reason, grantee will make every
reasonable effort to provide service over alternate routes. Subscriber agrees
he or she will make no claim nor undertake any action against the county, its
officers, its employees or grantee if a service to be provided by grantee
hereunder is interrupted or discontinued because the continued use of the
rights-of-way, is denied to grantee for any reason.”
      (2)   The form of the grantee’s contract with its subscribers shall be
subject to approval of the District Attorney with respect to the inclusion of
this provision.
   (I)   The grantee shall limit failures to a minimum by locating and
correcting malfunctions promptly, but in no event longer than 24 hours after
notice.
   (J)   The grantee shall render efficient service, make repairs promptly and
interrupt service only for good cause and for the shortest time possible. The
interruptions insofar as possible shall be preceded by notice and shall occur
during periods of minimum use of the system.
   (K)   The grantee shall comply with all rules and regulations of the Federal
Communications Commission as they may be here applied, for the carriage and
non-duplication protection of television stations and shall, within limitations
as to its general capacity and the technical availability thereof, carry all
television signals serving the general area.
   (L)   Upon termination of service to any subscriber, the grantee shall
promptly remove all its facilities and equipment from the premises of the
subscriber upon his or her request.
(1966 Code, § 6A-25) (Ord. 312, § 25; Ord. 967, §§ 3, 4, 2018; Ord. 968, §§ 3,
4, 2018)
§ 7.05.026 PROHIBITED ACTS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to establish, operate or to carry
on the business of distributing to any persons in this county any television
signals or radio signals by means of a CATV system unless a franchise therefor
has first been obtained pursuant to the provisions of this chapter, and unless
the franchise is in full force and effect.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to construct, install or maintain
within any public street in the county, or within any other public property of
the county or within any privately owned area within the county which has not
yet become a public street but is designated or delineated as a proposed public
street on any tentative subdivision or parcel map approved by the county, any
equipment or facilities for distributing any television signals or radio
signals through a CATV system, unless a franchise authorizing the use of the
street or property or area has first been obtained pursuant to the provisions
of this chapter, and unless the franchise is in full force and effect.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to make any
unauthorized connection, whether physically, electrically, acoustically,
inductively or otherwise, with any part of a franchised CATV system within this
county for the purpose of taking or receiving television signals, radio
signals, pictures, programs or sound.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to make any
unauthorized connection, whether physically, electrically, acoustically,
inductively or otherwise with any part of a franchised CATV system within this
county for the purpose of enabling himself, herself or others to receive any
television signal, radio signal, picture, program or sound, without payment to
the owner of the system.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful for any person, without the consent of the owner,
to wilfully tamper with, remove or injure any cables, wires or equipment used
for distribution of television signals, radio signals, pictures, programs or
sound.
(1966 Code, § 6A-26) (Ord. 312, § 26; Ord. 967, §§ 3, 4, 2018; Ord. 968, §§ 3,
4, 2018)
ARTICLE II. STATE VIDEO SERVICE FRANCHISES
§ 7.05.027 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Purpose. This article is applicable to video service providers who
have been awarded a state video franchise under Cal. Public Utilities Code §§
5800 et seq. (the Digital Infrastructure and Video Competition Act of 2006
["DIVCA"]), to provide cable or video services in any location(s) within the
unincorporated boundaries of the county. It is the purpose of this article to
implement within the unincorporated areas of the county the provisions of DIVCA
and the rules of the California Public Utilities Commission promulgated
thereunder that are applicable to a "local franchising entity" or a "local
entity" as defined in DIVCA.
   (B)   Rights reserved.
      (1)   The rights reserved to the county are in addition to all other
rights of the county, whether reserved by this article and title or authorized
by law, and no action, proceeding, or exercise of a right shall affect any
other rights which may be held by the county.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided by DIVCA, a state franchise shall not
include, or be a substitute for:
         (a)   Compliance with applicable requirements for the privilege of
transacting and carrying on a business within the county, including, but not
limited to, compliance with the conditions that the county may establish before
facilities may be constructed for, or providing, non-video services;
         (b)   Any permit or authorization required in connection with
operations on or in public rights-of-way or public property, including, but not
limited to, encroachment permits, street work permits, pole attachment permits
and street cut permits; and
         (c)   Any permit, agreement or authorization for occupying any other
property of the county or any private person to which access is not
specifically granted by the state franchise.
      (3)   No permit issued by the county to a state franchise holder is
itself a franchise, nor shall any permit create a vested right that would
prohibit the county from revoking or amending the permit.
   (C)   Compliance with county ordinances. Nothing contained in §§
7.05.027 through
7.05.034 shall be construed to exempt a state franchise holder from compliance
with all ordinances, rules or regulations of the county now in effect or which
may be hereafter adopted which are consistent with these §§
7.05.027 through
7.05.034 or Cal. Public Utilities Code §§ 5800 et seq., or any obligations
under any franchise issued by the county insofar as those obligations may be
enforced under Cal. Public Utilities Code §§ 5800 et seq.
   (D)   Compliance with DIVCA. When a video service provider holding a state
franchise provides notice to the county pursuant to Cal. Public Utilities Code
§ 5840(m) of DIVCA that it is commencing to provide video service to the
county, a holder of a local franchise is entitled to seek a state franchise
pursuant to Cal. Public Utilities Code § 5930(c) and upon the issuance of a
state franchise by the California Public Utilities Commission for the franchise
area the local franchise shall terminate.
(Ord. 849, § 6 (part), 2010; Ord. 967, §§ 3, 4, 2018; Ord. 968, §§ 3, 4, 2018)
§ 7.05.028 DEFINITIONS.
   Definitions generally; interpretation of language. For purposes of §§
7.05.027 through
7.05.034, inclusive, the following terms, phrases, words, and their derivations
shall have the meaning given in this section. Words not defined in this section
shall have the same meaning as established in: (1) DIVCA, and if not defined
therein, (2) California Public Utilities Commission rules implementing DIVCA,
and if not defined therein, (3) Title VI of Title 47 of the Communications Act
of 1934, as amended, 47 U.S.C. § 521 et seq., and if not defined therein (4)
their common and ordinary meaning. When not inconsistent with the context,
words used in the present tense include the future, words in the plural number
include the singular number, words in the singular number include the plural
number, and "including" and "include" are not limiting. The words "shall" and
"will" are always mandatory, but the use of those terms grants no private
rights to any person with respect to the county. References to governmental
entities (whether persons or entities) refer to those entities or their
successors in authority. If specific provisions of law referred to herein are
renumbered, then the reference shall be read to refer to the renumbered
provision. References to laws, ordinances or regulations shall be interpreted
broadly to cover government actions, however nominated, and include laws,
ordinances and regulations now in force or hereinafter enacted or amended.
   GROSS REVENUES. All revenues actually received by the holder of a state
franchise or its affiliates that are derived from the operation of the holder's
network to provide cable service or video service within the incorporated areas
of the county.
   PEG ACCESS, or PEG. The availability of a cable or state franchise holder's
system for public, educational, or governmental use by various agencies,
institutions, organizations, groups, and individuals, including organizations,
groups, or individual members of the general public, educational institutions,
and the county and its designated access providers, to acquire, create, and
distribute programming not under a state franchise holder's editorial control.
   STATE FRANCHISE HOLDER. A cable operator or video service provider that has
been issued a franchise by the California Public Utilities Commission to
provide cable service or video service,  as those terms are defined in Cal.
Public Utilities Code § 5830, within any portion of the unincorporated areas of
the county.
(Ord. 849, § 6 (part), 2010; Ord. 967, §§ 3, 4, 2018; Ord. 968, §§ 3, 4, 2018)
§ 7.05.029 FRANCHISE FEES.
   (A)   State franchise fees. Any state franchise holder operating within the
unincorporated areas of the county shall pay to the county a state franchise
fee equal to 5% of gross revenues that may be subject to a franchise fee under
Cal. Public Utilities Code § 5860.
   (B)   Payment of franchise fees. The state franchise fee required pursuant
to this section shall be paid quarterly, in a manner consistent with Cal.
Public Utilities Code § 5860. The state franchise holder shall deliver to the
county, by check or other means, which shall be agreed to by the county, a
separate payment for the state franchise fee not later than 45 days after the
end of each calendar quarter. Each payment made shall be accompanied by a
report, detailing how the payment was calculated, and shall include such
additional information on the appropriate form as designated by the county.
   (C)   Examination of business records. The county may examine the business
records of the holder of a state franchise in a manner consistent with Cal.
Public Utilities Code § 5860(i).
   (D)   Late payments. In the event a state franchise holder fails to make
payments required by this section on or before the due dates specified herein,
the county shall impose a late charge at the rate per year equal to the highest
prime lending rate during the period of delinquency, plus 1%.
(Ord. 849, § 6 (part), 2010; Ord. 967, §§ 3, 4, 2018; Ord. 968, §§ 3, 4, 2018)
§ 7.05.030 CUSTOMER SERVICE.
   (A)   Customer service standards. A state franchise holder shall comply with
Cal. Gov't Code §§ 53055, 53055.1, 53055.2 and 53088.2; the FCC customer
service and notice standards set forth in 47 C.F.R. §§ 76.309, 76.1602, 76.1603
and 76.1619; Cal. Penal Code § 637.5; the privacy standards of 47 U.S.C. § 551;
and, to the extent consistent with DIVCA, all other applicable state and
federal customer service and consumer protection standards pertaining to the
provision of video service, including any such standards hereafter adopted. In
case of a conflict, the stricter standard shall apply. All customer service and
consumer protection standards under this division (A) shall be interpreted and
applied to accommodate newer or different technologies while meeting or
exceeding the goals of the standards.
   (B)   Penalties for violations of standards. The county shall enforce the
compliance of state franchise holders with respect to the state and federal
customer service and consumer protection standards set forth in this section.
The county will provide a state franchise holder with a written notice of any
alleged material breaches, as defined in Cal. Public Utilities Code §§ 5900 et
seq., of applicable customer service or consumer protection standards, and will
allow the state franchise holder 30 days from the receipt of the notice to
remedy the specified material breach. Material breaches not remedied by a state
franchise holder within the 30-day time period, irrespective of the number of
customers affected, will be subject to the following penalties to be imposed by
the county:
      (1)   For the first occurrence of a material breach, a fine of $500 may
be imposed for each day the violation remains in effect, not to exceed $1,500
for each violation.
      (2)   For a second material breach of the same nature within 12 months, a
fine of $1,000 may be imposed for each day the violation remains in effect, not
to exceed $3,000 for each violation.
      (3)   For a third material breach of the same nature within 12 months, a
fine of $2,500 may be imposed for each day the violation remains in effect, not
to exceed $7,500 for each violation.
   (C)   Any penalties imposed by the county shall be imposed in a manner
consistent with Cal. Public Utilities Code §§ 5900 et seq.
(Ord. 849, § 6 (part), 2010; Ord. 967, §§ 3, 4, 2018; Ord. 968, §§ 3, 4, 2018)
§ 7.05.031 PERMITS AND CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Except as expressly provided in this section, all provisions of the
San Benito County Code, and all county administrative rules and regulations
developed to any of these provisions, as now existing or as hereafter amended,
shall apply to all work performed by or on behalf of a state franchise holder
on any county public rights-of-way, public property, or county easement.
   (B)   Permits. Prior to commencing any work for which a permit is required
by County Code, a state franchise holder shall apply for and obtain a permit in
accordance with the provisions of the applicable provisions of the San Benito
County Code and shall comply with all other applicable laws and regulations,
including but not limited to all applicable requirements of Division 13 of the
Cal. Public Resources Code, §§ 21000 et seq. (the California Environmental
Quality Act).
   (C)   The approving authority as designated in the applicable County Code
provision under which a permit is sought shall either approve or deny state
franchise holder's application for any permit within 60 days of receiving a
completed permit application from the state franchise holder, or within such
earlier time period as may be established by applicable county ordinance.
   (D)   If the approving authority denies a state franchise holder's
application for a permit, the approving authority shall, at the time of
notifying the applicant of denial, furnish to the applicant a detailed
explanation of the reason or reasons for the denial.
   (E)   A state franchise holder that has been denied a permit by final
decision of an approving authority may appeal the denial to the County Board of
Supervisors. Upon receiving a notice of appeal, the County Board of Supervisors
shall take one of the following actions:
      (1)   Affirm the action of the approving authority without any further
hearing; or
      (2)   Refer the matter back to the approving authority for further review
with or without instructions.
   (F)   In rendering its decision on the appeal, the County Board of
Supervisors shall not hear or consider any argument or evidence of any kind
other than the record of the matter received from the approving authority
unless the County Board of Supervisors is itself conducting a public hearing on
the matter.
   (G)   A state franchise holder shall notify the approving authority in
writing of the time requirements of this section should the state franchise
holder not be provided with a response on its permit application within 45 days
of submittal.
   (H)   The issuance of a permit is not a franchise, and does not grant any
vested rights in any location in the public rights-of-way, or in any particular
manner of placement within the rights-of-way. Without limitation, a permit to
place cabinets and similar appurtenances aboveground may be revoked and the
permittee required to place facilities underground, in accordance with
applicable law.
(Ord. 849, § 6 (part), 2010; Ord. 967, §§ 3, 4, 2018; Ord. 968, §§ 3, 4, 2018)
§ 7.05.032 EMERGENCY ALERT SYSTEM.
   Each state franchise holder shall comply with the emergency alert system
requirements of the Federal Communications Commission in order that emergency
messages may be distributed over the state franchise holder's network. To the
extent consistent with Cal. Public Utilities Code § 5880, each state franchise
holder shall install and maintain an audio override on all channels for
transmission of emergency messages and alerts, and shall provide for character
generated "crawl" information to be superimposed on all channels for the
hearing impaired, as such capability was required under local franchises in
effect in the county on January 1 to December 30, 2006.
(Ord. 849, § 6 (part), 2010; Ord. 967, §§ 3, 4, 2018; Ord. 968, §§ 3, 4, 2018)
§ 7.05.033 PUBLIC, EDUCATIONAL, AND GOVERNMENT ACCESS CHANNEL CAPACITY,
SUPPORT, INTERCONNECTION, AND SIGNAL CARRIAGE.
   (A)   PEG channel capacity.
      (1)   A state franchise holder shall designate a sufficient amount of
capacity on its network to allow the provision of three PEG channels to satisfy
the requirement of Cal. Public Utilities Code § 5870, within the time limits
specified therein.
      (2)   A state franchise holder shall provide an additional PEG channel
when the county satisfies the standards set forth in Cal. Public Utilities Code
§ 5870(d) or any entity designated by the county to manage one or more of the
PEG channels.
   (B)   PEG support.
      (1)   Amount of PEG support fee. Any state franchise holder shall pay to
the county, or if directed by the county, to the county's designated PEG
provider, a PEG fee equal to 1% of gross revenues.
      (2)   The PEG support fee shall be used for PEG purposes in a manner that
is consistent with state and federal law.
      (3)   A state franchise holder shall remit the PEG support fee quarterly,
within 45 days after the end of each calendar quarter. Each payment made shall
be accompanied by a summary, detailing how the PEG support fee was calculated.
      (4)   In the event that a state franchise holder fails to pay the PEG
support fee when due, or underpays the proper amount due, the state franchise
holder shall pay interest at the rate per year equal to the highest prime
lending rate during the period of delinquency, plus 1%, or the maximum rate
specified by state law.
   (C)   PEG carriage and interconnection.
      (1)   As set forth in Cal. Public Utilities Code §§ 5870(b) and 5870(g)
(3), state franchise holders shall ensure that all PEG channels are receivable
by all subscribers, whether they receive digital or analog service, or a
combination thereof, without the need for any equipment other than that needed
to receive the lowest cost tier of service. PEG access capacity provided by a
state franchise holder shall be of similar quality and functionality to that
offered by commercial channels (unless the PEG signal is provided to the state
franchise holder at a lower quality or with less functionality), shall be
capable of carrying a National Television System Committee (NTSC) television
signal, and shall be carried on the state franchise holder's lowest cost tier
of service. To the extent feasible, the PEG channels shall not be separated
numerically from other channels carried on the lowest cost tier of service and
the channel numbers for the PEG channels shall be the same channel numbers used
by any incumbent cable operator, unless prohibited by federal law. After the
initial designation of the PEG channel numbers, the channel numbers shall not
be changed without the agreement of the county unless federal law requires the
change.
      (2)   Where technically feasible, each state franchise holder and each
incumbent cable operator shall negotiate in good faith to interconnect their
networks for the purpose of providing PEG programming. Interconnection may be
accomplished by any means authorized under Cal. Public Utilities Code § 5870
(h). Each state franchise holder and incumbent cable operator shall provide
interconnection of PEG channels on reasonable terms and conditions and may not
withhold the interconnection. If a state franchise holder and an incumbent
cable operator cannot reach a mutually acceptable interconnection agreement for
PEG carriage, the county may require the incumbent cable operator to allow each
state franchise holder to interconnect its network with the incumbent cable
operator's network at a technically feasible point on the state franchise
holder's network as identified by the state franchise holder. If no technically
feasible point of interconnection is available, each state franchise holder
shall make interconnection available to each PEG channel originator programming
a channel in the county and shall provide the facilities necessary for the
interconnection. The cost of any interconnection shall be borne by each state
franchise holder requesting the interconnection unless otherwise agreed to by
the parties.
(Ord. 849, § 6 (part), 2010; Ord. 967, §§ 3, 4, 2018; Ord. 968, §§ 3, 4, 2018)
§ 7.05.034 NOTICES.
   (A)   Each state franchise holder or applicant for a state franchise shall
file with the county a copy of all applications or notices that the state
franchise holder or applicant are required to file with the California Public
Utilities Commission.
   (B)   Unless otherwise specified in this section, all notices or other
documentation that a state franchise holder is required to provide to the
county under this section or the California Public Utilities Code shall be
provided to both the County Administrator and the county staff person in charge
of cable and telecommunications, or their successors or designees.
(Ord. 849, § 6 (part), 2010; Ord. 967, §§ 3, 4, 2018; Ord. 968, §§ 3, 4, 2018)
CHAPTER 7.07: FOOD AND FOOD ESTABLISHMENTS
Section
   
7.07.001   Definitions
   
7.07.002   Permits for restaurants and other food establishments; required;
exception
   
7.07.003   Same; application
   
7.07.004   Same; issuance
   
7.07.005   Same; display
   
7.07.006   Same; transferability
   
7.07.007   Same; suspension or revocation
   
7.07.008   Evidence of intent to sell food
   
7.07.009   Seizure and destruction of unwholesome food
   
7.07.010   Meat for sale to be inspected and approved
   
7.07.011   Meat products for sale to be prepared in accordance with state law
   
7.07.012   Protection and sanitation of foods prior to sale
   
7.07.013   Construction requirements for restaurants and other food
establishments
   
7.07.014   Sanitation requirements
   
7.07.015   Canopies required for commercial stoves and the like
   
7.07.016   Certificates of inspection for head lettuce and salad products
required and definitions
   
7.07.017   Inspections and certificate, certification stamp or device
mandatory; notification to Agricultural Commissioner of head lettuce harvest
   
7.07.018   Inspection and certificate for salad products mandatory [Reserved]
   
7.07.019   Harvested amounts - reports
   
7.07.020   Fees for lettuce inspection - schedule
   
7.07.021   Fees for salad products inspection - schedule [Reserved]
   
7.07.022   Payment of fees
   
7.07.023   Fee-use-refunds
   
7.07.024   Exemption
   
7.07.025   Violations of lettuce inspection requirements
   
7.07.026   Administration and enforcement of chapter
Statutory reference:
   Retail food practices, see Cal. Health and Safety Code §§ 113700 et seq.
   Authority of county to require certificates of inspection of vegetables, see
Cal. Food and Agriculture Code § 42791
   Fees for certificates, see Cal. Food and Agriculture Code § 42793
§ 7.07.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following words and phrases shall have
the meanings respectively ascribed to them by this section.
   FOOD. All articles used for food, drink, confectionery or condiment, whether
simple or compound, and all substances and ingredients used in the preparation
thereof.
   FOOD ESTABLISHMENT. Any public or private market, shop, store, delicatessen,
candy factory, tortilleria or other place, not a public eating or drinking
establishment, in or about which any food, foodstuffs or provisions are kept,
held, sold, prepared, compounded or offered for sale for human consumption. The
establishments specifically include but shall not be restricted to grocery
stores and warehouses; candy and confectioners’ plants or stores; bakeries;
bottling works; food and condiment packing houses; fruit and vegetable stands;
markets or other premises where meat or meat food products, sausage, fish,
dressed poultry, rabbit or game are kept, stored, handled, manufactured or
offered for sale; ice stations; all food processing or cannery plants of any
type.
   RESTAURANT. Any coffee shop, cafeteria, short-order café, luncheonette,
tavern, bar, sandwich stand, soda fountain, public school lunch room or
cafeteria, labor and construction camp kitchens and dining rooms, public
boardinghouse, club and any other eating or drinking establishment which sells
or offers for sale food to the public, as well as kitchens, box lunch
establishments, catering services, barbecue pits in which food or drink is
prepared on the premises, for sale on the premises or distribution elsewhere.
The term shall also include all cafeterias or restaurants serving commercial
establishments as part of the organization and serving the public, whether as
employees or visitors.
(1966 Code, § 7-1) (Ord. 187, Art. 1)
§ 7.07.002 PERMITS FOR RESTAURANTS AND OTHER FOOD ESTABLISHMENTS; REQUIRED;
EXCEPTION.
   No person shall operate or conduct a restaurant or food establishment or
sell, offer for sale, distribute or have in possession for sale or distribution
any food or drink intended for human consumption in the county unless he or she
possesses a permit to do so from the county’s Health Officer. No permit shall
be required of any food processing plant, cannery or other food establishment
licensed by the state’s Department of Health, by the Bureau of Meat Inspection
of the state’s Department of Agriculture or by the Meat Inspection Division of
the United States Department of Agriculture.
(1966 Code, § 7-2) (Ord. 187, Art. 2, § 1)
§ 7.07.003 SAME; APPLICATION.
   Any person intending to operate a restaurant or food establishment shall,
before opening or operating the establishment, make application for a permit to
the county’s Health Officer upon a form provided by the Health Officer and
shall contain the name of the owner or manager thereof, the location and such
other information that the Health Officer may require for the administration of
this chapter. The application shall further require a signed statement that the
applicant will observe the provisions of this chapter.
(1966 Code, § 7-3) (Ord. 187, Art. 2, §§ 2, 3)
§ 7.07.004 SAME; ISSUANCE.
   Following receipt of an application for a permit under this chapter by the
county’s Health Officer, he or she shall make or cause to be made an inspection
of the premises of the applicant, and if the provisions of this chapter and all
other applicable state and county laws have been complied with by the
applicant, the Health Officer shall certify that fact to the applicant and
issue to him or her a permit to operate.
(1966 Code, § 7-4) (Ord. 187, Art. 2, § 4)
§ 7.07.005 SAME; DISPLAY.
   Every permit required by this chapter shall, at all times, be displayed in a
conspicuous place on the premises of the applicant to whom it was issued.
(1966 Code, § 7-5) (Ord. 187, Art. 2, § 5)
§ 7.07.006 SAME; TRANSFERABILITY.
   Every person who sells, exchanges, gives away, abandons or discontinues any
restaurant or food establishment within the unincorporated areas of the county,
and every person who shall purchase or otherwise acquire any such restaurant or
food establishment in the area, shall immediately notify the county’s Health
Officer, his or her assistant, or duly authorized representative, as to the
fact thereof and the restaurant or food establishment shall be prohibited from
operating after the sale, exchange, abandonment or discontinuance until a new
permit has been applied for and issued pursuant to the provisions of this
chapter.
(1966 Code, § 7-6) (Ord. 187, Art. 2, § 9)
§ 7.07.007 SAME; SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION.
   (A)   If it is determined by the county’s Health Officer, following any
investigation or inspection of a restaurant or food establishment that the
operator, owner or manager thereof has not complied with the provisions of this
chapter or with the laws of the state, the Health Officer may, in his or her
discretion, immediately suspend and seize the permit issued to operate the
restaurant or food establishment. Any owner, operator or manager of a
restaurant or food establishment whose permit has been suspended and seized
shall have a reasonable time within which to correct the violations of this
chapter or of the laws of the state leading to the suspension and seizure, and
if the corrections are not made within a reasonable time not to exceed 120
days, the Health Officer shall revoke the permit.
   (B)   Before a suspended permit shall be reinstated, the owner, operator or
manager of any restaurant or food establishment for which the permit to operate
has been suspended shall be required to correct the conditions which caused the
county’s Health Officer to suspend the permit. Upon the corrections, the permit
to operate shall be returned to the permittee.
   (C)   In case a permit has been revoked, it shall not be reinstated, and the
owner, operator or manager of a restaurant or food establishment whose permit
has been revoked shall forthwith cease to operate the restaurant or food
establishment and shall only be entitled to commence the operation after making
a new application as provided for in this chapter and after having received a
new permit to operate.
(1966 Code, § 7-7) (Ord. 187, Art. 2, §§ 6, 7, 8)
§ 7.07.008 EVIDENCE OF INTENT TO SELL FOOD.
   The presence in or about the place of business of any person dealing in
food, or in or about any vehicle used by any such person for the delivery of
food, shall be prima facie evidence of intent on the part of such person to
sell the same and the fact that he or she is holding or offering the same for
sale.
(1966 Code, § 7-8) (Ord. 187, Art. 2, § 10)
§ 7.07.009 SEIZURE AND DESTRUCTION OF UNWHOLESOME FOOD.
   The county’s Health Officer, his or her assistant or his or her duly
authorized representative are authorized and directed to seize and destroy or
denaturize any tainted, diseased, decayed or partially decayed or unwholesome
meat, fish, shell fish, fowl, fruits, vegetables or other unwholesome food
found within the unincorporated areas of the county.
(1966 Code, § 7-9) (Ord. 187, Art. 2, § 11)
§ 7.07.010 MEAT FOR SALE TO BE INSPECTED AND APPROVED.
   No person shall sells offer for sale, distribute or have in possession for
sale or distribution in the unincorporated areas of the county, the flesh of
any cattle, horse, sheep, lamb, swine or goat unless the same bears on each
primal part thereof the “inspected and passed” stamp of an establishment
operating under federal inspection, state inspection or approved municipal
inspection.
(1966 Code, § 7-10) (Ord. 187, Art. 2, § 12)
§ 7.07.011 MEAT PRODUCTS FOR SALE TO BE PREPARED IN ACCORDANCE WITH STATE LAW.
   No person shall sell, offer for sale, distribute or have in possession for
sale or distribution in the unincorporated areas of the county any sausage or
other prepared meat or seafood products unless the same has been manufactured
or prepared in accordance with the laws of the state.
(1966 Code, § 7-11) (Ord. 187, Art. 2, § 13)
§ 7.07.012 PROTECTION AND SANITATION OF FOODS PRIOR TO SALE.
   (A)   No person shall sell, expose or offer for sale, or cause or permit to
be sold, exposed or offered for sale, in the county, any article of food
prepared for human consumption, including crackers; rolls; buns; biscuits;
muffins; bread; cake; cookies; pies; candies; cooked, smoked or pickled meat or
fish; cooked, dried or pickled vegetables or fruit; salad; butter; cheese; or
any article of food intended for human consumption, which article of food is
smoked, dried or otherwise prepared and intended for human consumption without
further cooking, washing or other preparation, unless the article or articles
of food are covered or enclosed by glass or with some substance or material in
such a manner as to prevent the handling of any such article or articles for
sale by any person other than the person selling, offering or exposing any such
article or articles for sale; and to prevent any such article of food from
coming in contact with any deleterious, unwholesome or unhealthy substance or
commodities; provided, that the provisions of this section shall not apply to
uncovering food in the process of preparation or display for immediate
consumption on the premises where steam tables or other service tables approved
by the Health Department are in use and properly protected from unwholesome or
unhealthy contamination as provided in this chapter.
   (B)   All foods and beverages in the process of preparation, distribution or
display shall be securely protected from flies, dust, dirt and other foreign,
injurious contamination.
   (C)   All kitchens of hotels, restaurants, lunch counters, cafeterias, candy
factories, soda fountains, ice cream parlors or other places where food is
prepared or kept shall have wire screens at all outside openings for the
purpose of excluding flies and other insects. All screened doors shall be self
closing. In addition to the screens so provided, all foods shall be protected
from dust, dirt and flies. All screening used in such places shall be no less
than 14 inch mesh.
   (D)   All surplus boxes, crates, lug boxes and similar containers in which
fruits, vegetables and other products are delivered or received by a restaurant
or other food establishment shall be kept in orderly condition, and shall not
be allowed to accumulate on the premises. Each container shall be kept in a
clean and sanitary condition and removed from premises daily, or at intervals
determined by the Health Officer.
   (E)   Deciduous fruits, or other foods subject to damage by the rays of the
sun, shall be kept, at all times, well inside of any building of a food
establishment or other restaurant and elevated not less than 18 inches above
the floor level.
(1966 Code, § 7-12) (Ord. 187, Art. 2, §§ 16, 17, 23, 26, 27)
§ 7.07.013 CONSTRUCTION REQUIREMENTS FOR RESTAURANTS AND OTHER FOOD
ESTABLISHMENTS.
   (A)   Every establishment where food is handled, prepared, sold or
distributed shall be properly lighted, drained, ventilated and adequate
plumbing and sanitary drainage installed in accordance with the regulations of
the county’s Health Department.
   (B)   The floors of restaurants and other food establishments shall be of
good non-absorbent material, and shall be kept in a clean sanitary condition at
all times. The walls and ceilings shall be smooth, sound and cleanable, and
shall be kept painted with oil paint or other approved finishing material and
maintained in a clean, and sanitary condition. The walls in the proximity of
sinks, mixers, stoves, ranges or other equipment where water, grease or matter
is likely to be splashed on the walls, shall be constructed with tile or other
approved material of sufficient height thoroughly to protect the walls;
provided, that the back of stoves may be flashed with metal.
   (C)   All drain boards shall be made or constructed of metal tile or tile
substitutes. The use of wooden drain boards, or wooden drain boards covered
with metal, is prohibited.
(1966 Code, § 7-13) (Ord. 187, Art. 2, § 18, 19, 20)
§ 7.07.014 SANITATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Every restaurant or other food establishment shall be equipped with a
water flush toilet, sink and running water, which shall be so located as to be
convenient to the rooms used for food handling purposes. All toilets shall be
adjacent to lavatories or washrooms, which shall, at all times, be supplied
with soap and towels. The floors of the toilet rooms shall be of cement, tile
laid in cement or other non- absorbent material. No door or other opening from
a toilet room shall open directly into a kitchen, dining room or other place
where foods are served, cooked or prepared.
   (B)   When such an opening occurs an anteroom ventilated to the outer air
with a solid door shall be provided between the lavatory, kitchen or food
establishment. No owner, proprietor or manager of any establishment shall
provide or expose any toweling or similar article, except individual paper
towels, for use of the public generally in any place under his or her control,
or permit any cloth towel or similar article to be provided or exposed unless
the towel has been laundered after each separate use.
   (C)   The owner, operator or manager of every food handling place shall take
every precaution to keep the premises free and rid of rats, mice, roaches, ants
or other vermin or pests.
   (D)   Whenever it shall appear to the satisfaction of the Health Officer
that any premises or establishment engaged in the handling or preparation of
food for sale or distribution is infested with rodents, vermin or pests, a
written notice shall be given to the person owning, controlling, leasing or
acting as agents for or managing the establishment that the infestation with
rodents, vermin or pests constitutes a public nuisance and endangers public
health, peace and safety, and that the infestation shall be abated within 30
days from the date of receiving written notice. Failure to comply with the
written notice in 30 days shall constitute a violation of the provisions of
this chapter and the Health Officer shall suspend the permit and close the
establishment until the nuisance has been abated.
   (E)   No dogs, cats or other animals shall be harbored or permitted in any
establishment where food is prepared for sale or distribution.
   (F)   No owner, proprietor or manager of any food establishment shall
provide or use on the floors any sawdust or similar material, except that
butcher shops may use sawdust on floors in a cooler or behind a counter.
   (G)   Sufficient metal garbage cans, with fly-tight covers, shall be
provided for all garbage, vegetable trimmings, trash or other refuse from a
restaurant or other food establishment. A sufficient number of cans shall be
available to prevent overloading and tight-fitting covers shall, at all times,
be kept in place. Where there is an excess of vegetable trimmings or other
waste material subject to decomposition, a screen room shall be constructed of
screen wire of not less than 14 mesh to the inch and shall be fly tight. All
such excess waste materials shall be kept in the screen room until removal from
the premises. All garbage or food waste products subject to fermentation or
decomposition shall be removed each day except Sunday or legal holidays when
the establishments are closed to the public.
(1966 Code, § 7-14) (Ord. 187, Art. 2, §§ 21, 22, 24, 25, 28)
§ 7.07.015 CANOPIES REQUIRED FOR COMMERCIAL STOVES AND THE LIKE.
   All stoves, ranges, candy kettles, doughnut kettles, ovens and hot plates in
restaurants and other food establishments shall be equipped with a metal canopy
of a size at least four inches longer than the entire cooking surface of the
cooking device, on all sides. The canopy shall be ventilated to the outside air
by a separate ventilating flue of not less than six inches in diameter, for an
ordinary stove, or as much larger as the Health Department may deem necessary
for effective operation.
(1966 Code, § 7-15) (Ord. 187, Art. 2, § 29)
§ 7.07.016 CERTIFICATES OF INSPECTION FOR HEAD LETTUCE AND SALAD PRODUCTS
REQUIRED AND DEFINITIONS.
   The Board of Supervisors exercises the option provided for in Cal. Food and
Agricultural Code, Division 17 to require certificates of inspection on all
head lettuce and salad products packed for sale in the county and to establish
a schedule of fees for such inspection. As used in this chapter, the following
words or phrases shall have the following meanings:
   (A)   AGRICULTURAL COMMISSIONER means the Agricultural Commissioner of San
Benito County, or his/her designated representative.
   (B)   COMMERCIAL means an activity carried on for the primary purpose of
procuring subsistence or profit.
   (C)   PERSON means any individual, firm, partnership, joint venture,
corporation, association, club or organization.
(Ord. 837, § 1)
§ 7.07.017 INSPECTIONS AND CERTIFICATE, CERTIFICATION STAMP OR DEVICE
MANDATORY; NOTIFICATION TO AGRICULTURAL COMMISSIONER OF HEAD LETTUCE HARVEST.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to sell, transport or ship or have in his/her
possession for sale, transportation or shipment for a commercial purpose any
head lettuce without first obtaining from the Agricultural Commissioner an
inspection certificate, certification stamp or device issued in accordance with
the provisions of Cal. Food and Agricultural Code §§ 42791, 42792 and 42792.1.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any grower, harvester, packer or shipper that
intends to harvest head lettuce in San Benito County to do so without notifying
the Agricultural Commissioner's office within 24 hours of the time that the
work is to begin and the location of the field, lot, address, grower's name or
ranch name that is intended to be harvested. Notice of any harvest of head
lettuce occurring on a Saturday or Sunday shall be provided by noon on Friday.
(Ord. 837, § 2)
§ 7.07.018 INSPECTION AND CERTIFICATE FOR SALAD PRODUCTS MANDATORY. [RESERVED]
§ 7.07.019 HARVESTED AMOUNTS - REPORTS.
   Each financially interested packer, shipper or company that harvest head
lettuce within San Benito County shall be responsible for recording and
reporting daily harvest totals on a monthly report to be submitted by the tenth
of the following month to the Agricultural Commissioner.
§ 7.07.020 FEES FOR LETTUCE INSPECTION - SCHEDULE.
   A schedule of fees for the inspections required by §
7.07.017 to be paid for by the owners, shippers or other interested persons,
shall be established by resolution of the Board of Supervisors, from time to
time, for the following:
   (A)   For all lettuce inspected in standard containers or equivalent; and
   (B)   For standard bulk bins, per standard carton equivalent.
§ 7.07.021 FEES FOR SALAD PRODUCTS INSPECTION - SCHEDULE. [RESERVED]
§ 7.07.022 PAYMENT OF FEES.
   The fees provided for in §§
7.07.017 and
7.07.018 shall be paid to the county through the Office of the Agricultural
Commissioner. The fees shall be due and payable on the first day of the month
following the month in which the inspection was performed, and shall be
delinquent on the tenth day of the following month. A grower, shipper or other
interested person whose account becomes delinquent may, at the discretion of
the Agricultural Commissioner, be required to pay the fees at the time of
issuance of the certificates.
§ 7.07.023 FEE-USE-REFUNDS.
   (A)   The fees paid pursuant to §
7.07.021 shall be deemed to be advances toward defraying the actual costs of
inspection in excess of the moneys appropriated for that purpose, and shall be
held pending determination of such actual additional costs.
   (B)   The determination of actual additional costs shall be made annually on
a calendar fiscal year basis, and any money paid in and not used for purposes
of this chapter shall be refunded, in proportion to the inspection fees paid
in, to the owners, shippers or interested parties from whom the money was
originally collected, or their assignees, or persons, firms, corporations, or
associations authorized by the owners, shippers, or interested parties to
receive the moneys. Refunds shall be made on or before September 30 following
the close of the calendar fiscal year by warrants drawn in payment of approved
and authenticated claims submitted to the County Auditor-Controller by the
persons, firms, corporations or associations entitled and authorized to receive
the funds. The refunds shall be reduced, on a similar proportional basis, by
any excess of costs incurred over fees collected for the first six months of
the current calendar year. In the event such reduction takes place, it shall be
considered as an additional credit for the current calendar year.
§ 7.07.024 EXEMPTION.
   This chapter shall not apply to head lettuce which is exempt under the
provisions of California Administrative Code, Title 3, § 1390; provided,
however, that a valid permit for such exemption has been issued by the
Agricultural Commissioner pursuant to California Administrative Code, Title 3,
§ 1390.1, unless such a permit is not required pursuant to Cal. Food and
Agricultural Code § 43332.
(Ord. 837, § 5)
§ 7.07.025 VIOLATIONS OF LETTUCE INSPECTION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Administrative penalties. Pursuant to Cal. Gov't Code § 53069.4, the
county may impose administrative penalties for the violations of §§
7.07.017 and
7.07.019 in an amount not to exceed $100 for a first violation, $200 for a
second violation and $500 for the third or more violation for each day during
which any person commits, continues, allows or maintains a violation of those
sections. The Agricultural Commissioner or his/her designee, may cause any
person to be issued an administrative citation as specified below. An owner or
manager shall be responsible for ensuring that lettuce inspection code
requirements are complied with for all fields under their supervision and
control.
      (1)   Any notice of citation issued shall: identity the date, time and
circumstances of the violation; state the amount of the penalty fee to be
imposed; and advise the person of their appeal rights as provided herein.
      (2)   The administrative citation shall be served as set forth below.
         (a)   By personal service; or
         (b)   By mail, certified, return receipt requested, to the owner of
the property at the address shown on the last equalized assessment roll, or to
the person responsible for or committing the act at that person's permanent
mailing address. Should the service by certified mail, return receipt be
returned as "refused or unclaimed," service may be made by posting a copy of
the notice prominently and conspicuously upon the property where the violation
occurred and mailing a copy of the notice by regular U.S. mail to the owner and
any known responsible party.
         (c)   When service of the notice of administrative violation is made
by personal service, or posting, proof of service shall be certified to at the
time of service by a written declaration. When service is made via certified
mail, the card returned in acknowledgment of receipt shall be affixed to a copy
of the notice and order retained by the director or his/her designee. The
failure of any person to receive the notice does not affect the validity of any
proceedings taken under this chapter.
      (3)   The amount of the penalty fee imposed shall be set by the
Agricultural Commissioner or his/her designee. In determining the amount of
civil penalty to be assessed against any person, consideration will be given to
the following:
         (a)   The extent to which the person had knowledge or reasonably
should have known that the action taken was a violation of the San Benito
County Code;
         (b)   The magnitude of the violation;
         (c)   The extent to which the person derived a financial benefit from
the violation;
         (d)   Any prior history of related violations by the same person; and
         (e)   Any corrective action, or lack thereof, taken by the person to
eliminate the violations, and any other mitigating circumstances justifying a
reduction of the amount of the penalties.
      (4)   Any person receiving the administrative citation may request an
appeal hearing, in writing, within 15 days from the date of service of the
administrative citation. The request for hearing shall be addressed to the
Agricultural Commissioner and shall be deemed served only when received by the
county. Failure to properly serve the request for hearing within the 15-day
period shall be deemed a waiver of right to appeal the matter, and the decision
to impose the penalty fee will become final.
      (5)   The appeal hearing shall be held before a hearing board, consisting
of two or more members appointed by the Board of Supervisors, or a hearing
officer appointed by the County Administrative Officer or his/her designee. A
hearing officer shall be a member of the California Bar admitted to practice no
less than five years as required by Cal. Gov't Code §
      (6)   Upon conclusion of the hearing, the hearing board or hearing
officer shall serve written notice of his/her decision, which shall be final.
The costs of the hearing officer shall be borne by the losing party, unless as
otherwise determined by the hearing officer. Each party shall be responsible
for his/her own attorney's fees.
      (7)   Notwithstanding Cal. Code of Civil Procedure §§ 1094.5 or 1094.6,
within 20 days after the date action is taken by the hearing board or hearing
officer, a person contesting that final administrative decision may seek review
by filing an appeal in the San Benito County Superior Court pursuant to Cal.
Gov't Code § 53069.4(b). If no notice of appeal to the Superior Court is filed
within the period set forth in this section, the order or decision of the
county shall be deemed confirmed.
   (B)   Criminal penalties. Any person violating §§
7.07.016 et seq. shall be deemed guilty of an infraction as hereinafter
specified. Such person shall be deemed guilty of a separate offense for each
and every day or portion thereof during which any violation is committed,
continued, or permitted. Any person so convicted shall be: guilty of an
infraction offense and punished by a fine not exceeding $100 for a first
violation; guilty of an infraction offense and punished by a fine not exceeding
$200 for a second violation. The third and any additional violations shall be
punishable by a fine not exceeding $500. Payment of any penalty herein shall
not relieve a person from the responsibility for correcting the violation.
(Ord. 837, § 6)
§ 7.07.026 ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT OF CHAPTER.
   The county's Health Officer is hereby authorized to promulgate such rules
and regulations as may be necessary to insure the proper sanitation in all
restaurants and food establishments and for the proper and orderly
administration of this chapter.
(1966 Code, § 7-16) (Ord. 187, Art. 2, § 15; Ord. 837, § 7)
CHAPTER 7.09: PLACES OF PUBLIC AMUSEMENTS
Section
   
7.09.001   Definitions
   
7.09.002   License; required
   
7.09.003   Same; written application to County Clerk
   
7.09.004   Same; filing fees; exception
   
7.09.005   Same; transmittal of application; hearing; issuance
   
7.09.006   Same; denial; notice
   
7.09.007   Same; fees
   
7.09.008   Same; renewal
   
7.09.009   Same; revocation; grounds
   
7.09.010   Same; same; notice; hearing
   
7.09.011   Same; same; complaints
   
7.09.012   Required conditions
   
7.09.013   Unlawful acts; declared nuisances
§ 7.09.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following words and phrases shall have
the meanings respectively ascribed to them by this section.
   AMUSEMENT PARK. Any place commonly known as an amusement park, amusement
ground or amusement center where swimming, dancing, games, exhibits or shows
are carried on, conducted or allowed whether an admission fee is charged or
not; provided that, beer, wine or liquor is not sold, kept, provided or given
away in connection with the amusement park.
   BEER GARDEN. Any structure or place where the principal occupation or
enterprise is that of selling, dispensing, giving away or disposing of
alcoholic beverages intended for consumption on or about the premises.
   CABARET. Any structure or place wherein beer, wine or liquor is sold or
provided patrons and wherein amateur or paid entertainers perform or entertain
the patrons of the place.
   CIRCUS SHOW. All sideshows, circuses, traveling shows, animal shows,
traveling carnivals, traveling or moving tent shows, exhibitions, temporary
theaters or itinerant playhouses; excepting, however, motion picture theaters
or playhouses being operated in a permanent structure.
   DANCE HALL. Any place wherein dances are given, operated, conducted or
permitted as a business enterprise, occupation or amusement whether or not
music is provided by paid or amateur performers or by prerecorded means.
Excluded from this definition are dances conducted by any non-profit,
charitable, philanthropic or eleemosynary organization; provided, that the net
profit from any dance does not inure to the private profit of any person or
persons.
   MUSIC FESTIVALS. Any outdoor festival, carnival, dance or like musical
activity, whether or not music is provided by paid or amateur performers or by
prerecorded means, which is of a periodic nature and to which members of the
public are admitted for a charge, whether or not the charge is directly or
indirectly made.
   PUBLIC SWIMMING POOL. A swimming pool to which members of the public are
admitted for a charge, whether or not such charge is made directly or
indirectly. Excluded from the definition of PUBLIC SWIMMING POOL shall be those
swimming pools constructed on the business premises of motels, which pools
serve exclusively the registered guests of the motel.
(1966 Code, § 12A-1) (Ord. 297, § 1)
§ 7.09.002 LICENSE; REQUIRED.
   Any person wishing to operate, maintain or conduct a place of public
amusement as defined herein, within the unincorporated areas of the county,
must first obtain a license to do so. No license shall be issued, however,
until all conditions required pursuant to this chapter have been met and
fulfilled.
(1966 Code, § 12A-2) (Ord. 297, § 2)
§ 7.09.003 SAME; WRITTEN APPLICATION TO COUNTY CLERK.
   Any person desiring to operate a place of public amusement shall file a
written application (consisting of an original and five copies) with the County
Clerk, which shall contain the following facts and information:
   (A)   The name, age, residence and mailing address of the person making the
application. If the application is made by a partnership, the names and
addresses of the partners must appear. Where the applicant is a corporation,
the application must be signed by the president, vice president and secretary
thereof and must contain the addresses of the corporate officers; and a
certified copy of the articles of incorporation shall be submitted with the
application;
   (B)   A statement of the kind, character or type of place of public
amusement, as defined in §
7.09.001 hereof, which the applicant proposes to conduct, operate or carry on;
   (C)   The address or legal description of the place or premises where the
proposed public amusement is to be conducted, operated or carried on.
Additionally, the applicant must submit proof of ownership of the place where
the public amusement is to be conducted or a statement signed by the owner of
the premises indicating his or her consent that the site be used for the
proposed amusement;
   (D)   The number of days for which the license is sought (a license
authorizes the conduct of a public amusement for a maximum of 365 days and must
thereafter be renewed); and
   (E)   An estimate of the number of customers, spectators, participants and
other persons expected to attend the public amusement for each day it is
conducted.
(1966 Code, § 12A-3) (Ord. 297, § 3)
§ 7.09.004 SAME; FILING FEES; EXCEPTION.
   (A)   The County Clerk shall collect from each applicant a nonrefundable
filing fee determined as follows:
 
Estimated Attendance Fee
Up to 20,000         $50
20,001 to 50,000     $75
50,001 to 100,000    $100
100,001 to 200,000   $200
200,001 to 300,000   $300
Over 300,000         $500
 
   (B)   The Board of Supervisors may waive the filing fee required by this
section when the applications are submitted by a neighborhood or community
benefit association, organized for charitable, religious or eleemosynary
purposes; provided, that the net proceeds from the activity subject to the
application do not inure to the benefit of any private person or persons.
(1966 Code, § 12A-4) (Ord. 297, § 4; Ord. 301)
§ 7.09.005 SAME; TRANSMITTAL OF APPLICATION; HEARING; ISSUANCE.
   (A)   Upon receipt of the application, the County Clerk shall file the
original application and distribute one copy thereof to the Sheriff, the
county’s Health Officer, the Director of the Department of Public Works and the
District Attorney. These county department heads shall thereupon conduct an
investigation of the application.
   (B)   The Clerk of the Board of Supervisors shall set the matter for public
hearing at a regular meeting of the Board, which shall be not later than 60
days from the date of the filing of the application. Ten days’ written notice
of the date of the hearing shall be given to the applicant and to the county
department receiving a copy of the application.
   (C)   The Board of Supervisors shall, based upon the reports of the
interested county departments and on the testimony of witnesses and evidence
presented at the hearing, grant the application, deny the application or set
conditions which must be met before a license may be granted.
   (D)   Where conditions are imposed pursuant to §
7.09.002 of this chapter, the County Clerk must certify to the Tax Collector
that all conditions have been met before a license may be issued. The Clerk
shall require written notice from county departments charged with
responsibility under §
7.09.012, that conditions have been met before issuing its certification.
   (E)   When the County Clerk certifies that conditions have been met, the Tax
Collector shall immediately issue a license specifying the name and address of
the licensee, the kind of public amusement licensed and the number of days
operation is authorized. The licensee shall keep the license posted in a
conspicuous place upon the premises at which the public amusement is conducted.
(1966 Code, § 12A-5) (Ord. 297, § 5)
§ 7.09.006 SAME; DENIAL; NOTICE.
   (A)   After holding the required public hearing, the Board of Supervisors
may deny issuance of a license if it finds any of the following:
      (1)   That the applicant fails to meet the conditions imposed pursuant to
this chapter;
      (2)   That the proposed public amusement will be conducted in a manner or
location not meeting the health, zoning, fire or safety standards established
by the ordinances of the county or the laws of the state;
      (3)   That the applicant has knowingly made a false, misleading or
fraudulent statement of material fact in the application for license, or in any
other document required pursuant to this chapter;
      (4)   That the applicant, his or her employee, agent or any person
connected or associated with the applicant as partner, director, officer,
stockholder, associate or manager, has previously conducted the type of public
amusement being applied for which resulted in the creation of a public or
private nuisance; and
      (5)   That the applicant, his or her employee, agent or any person
associated with applicant as partner, director, officer, stockholder, associate
or manager has been convicted in a court of competent jurisdiction, by final
judgment of:
         (a)   An offense involving the presentation, exhibition or performance
of an obscene production, motion picture or play; or of selling obscene matter;
         (b)   An offense involving lewd conduct;
         (c)   An offense involving the use of force and violence upon the
person of another; or
         (d)   An offense involving misconduct with children.
   (B)   Where the application is denied, the Clerk to the Board of Supervisors
shall mail to the applicant written notice of denial within 14 days of the
action, which notice shall include a statement of the reasons the application
was denied.
(1966 Code, § 12A-6) (Ord. 297, § 6)
§ 7.09.007 SAME; FEES.
   (A)   The license fees for operating places of public amusement, as defined
in §
7.09.001, are fixed as follows:
      (1)   Cabaret. The sum of $600 per year, payable in four equal quarterly
installments in advance (i.e., on or before the first day of January, April,
July and October of each year) at the rate of $150 per quarter.
      (2)   Dance hall. The sum of $100 per year, payable in four equal
quarterly installments in advance at the rate of $25 per quarter.
      (3)   Beer garden. The sum of $100 per year, payable in four equal
quarterly installments in advance at the rate of $25 per quarter.
      (4)   Amusement park. The sum of $100 per year, payable in four equal
quarterly installments in advance at the rate of $25 per quarter.
      (5)   Public swimming pool. The sum of $50 per year, payable in four
quarterly installments in advance at the rate of $12.50 per quarter.
      (6)   Circus show. The sum of $3,600 per year, payable in four equal
quarterly installments in advance at the rate of $900 per quarter; provided,
however, that a license may be issued on a daily basis, a fee for which is
hereby set at $100 per day of operation.
      (7)   Music festival. The sum of $5,400 per year, payable in four equal
quarterly installments in advance at the rate of $1,350 per quarter; provided,
however, that a license may be issued on a daily basis, a fee for which is
hereby set at $150 per day of operation.
   (B)   A neighborhood or community benefit organization, organized for
charitable, religious or eleemosynary purposes, shall be exempt from paying the
license fee provided for in this section; provided, that the net proceeds from
any such activity does not inure to the benefit of any private person or
persons.
(1966 Code, § 12A-7) (Ord. 297, § 7)
§ 7.09.008 SAME; RENEWAL.
   A license may be renewed upon the same terms, conditions and pursuant to the
same procedures required herein for the issuance of an initial license.
(1966 Code, § 12A-8) (Ord. 297, § 8)
§ 7.09.009 SAME; REVOCATION; GROUNDS.
   The Board of Supervisors of the county have the power to revoke any license,
or to revoke and reinstate any license upon suitable conditions, when the
following causes exist:
   (A)   The licensee fails, neglects or refuses to pay to the Tax Collector
the fee prescribed by this chapter;
   (B)   The licensee, his or her employee or agent, fails, neglects or refuses
to fulfill any or all of the conditions imposed pursuant to this chapter;
   (C)   The public amusement violates any law or regulation established by the
ordinances of the county or the laws of the state;
   (D)   The licensee allows the public amusement to be conducted in a
disorderly manner or knowingly allows any person to remain on the premises of
the public amusement while under the influence of intoxicating liquor, or any
narcotic or dangerous drug; and
   (E)   The licensee, his or her employee or agent is convicted of any of the
offenses enumerated under §
7.09.006(A)(5).
(1966 Code, § 12A-9) (Ord. 297, § 9)
§ 7.09.010 SAME; SAME; NOTICE; HEARING.
   Notice of intent to revoke any license shall be given and the licensee shall
be entitled to a hearing. The Clerk of the Board of Supervisors shall give
notice, setting forth the causes for revocation and shall state the time and
place at which the matter of revocation will be heard before the Board of
Supervisors of the county. The notice shall be mailed not later than ten days
prior to the date set for hearing. The Board of Supervisors shall hear all
interested parties and may revoke a license only for one or more causes
enumerated by §
7.09.009.
(1966 Code, § 12A-10) (Ord. 297, § 11)
§ 7.09.011 SAME; SAME; COMPLAINTS.
   Any person may file a complaint with the Clerk of the Board of Supervisors
or may petition the Board of Supervisors to conduct a hearing concerning the
revocation of the license of any licensee. The Clerk of the Board of
Supervisors shall notice the petition for hearing in accordance with the
provisions of §
7.09.010.
(1966 Code, § 12A-11) (Ord. 297, § 10)
§ 7.09.012 REQUIRED CONDITIONS.
   (A)   At the hearing required under §
7.09.005, the Board of Supervisors may establish conditions which must be met
prior to the issuance of any license under this chapter; except, that the Board
may take a matter under submission before determining which conditions shall be
imposed. Where the Board takes a matter under submission, written notice of any
conditions imposed as prerequisite to the issuance of a license must be mailed
to the applicant within 15 days of the close of the public hearing.
   (B)   The conditions which may be imposed by the Board of Supervisors
pursuant to the county’s general police power for the protection of health,
safety and property of local residents and persons attending public amusements
in the county, are as follows:
      (1)   Police protection.
         (a)   Every licensee shall employ, at his or her own expense, at least
one private patroler or guard, approved by the Sheriff of the county, whose
duty shall be the preservation of order and protection of property in and
around the place of public amusement.
         (b)   The patroler may be required to be licensed under the Business
and Professions Code and to be in attendance, wearing uniforms, at all times
the public amusement is in operation. Where the Sheriff authorizes the
employment of off-duty peace officers to meet the requirements of this chapter,
the peace officers shall be under the direction and control of the Sheriff of
the county. The Sheriff must be satisfied that the requisite number of private
patrolers or guards will be provided at all times of operation, before a
license is issued. Submittal by the applicant of a written agreement between
the applicant and a licensed private patrol agency may be required. As a
condition of any license hereunder, the licensee consents to and authorizes the
Sheriff, his or her deputies and employees to enter upon the licensed premises.
      (2)   Water facilities.
         (a)   Every licensee shall provide an ample supply of water for
drinking and sanitation purposes on the premises of the public amusement.
Quality and quantity of water and location of facilities must be approved by
the county’s Health Officer prior to the issuance of a license.
         (b)   In the case of outdoor public amusements proposed to be held in
arid or semi-arid areas, a supply of ten gallons of water for each person
expected to be in attendance may be required. All water shall meet U.S. public
health service standards. Public or private lavatories and drinking facilities
may be required. Drainage and sewage systems relating to such facilities shall
meet the requirements of the Health and Safety Code and be subject to the prior
approval of the county’s Health Officer.
      (3)   Food concessions. In the case of public amusements proposed to be
held in areas located a substantial distance from markets, restaurants or like
eating establishments, applicant may be required to demonstrate that food will
be available at the premises for each day of operation to adequately feed the
number of persons expected to be in attendance. Concessionaires must be
licensed pursuant to local regulation and state laws. Quality and quantity of
food and location of concessions must be approved by the county’s Health
Officer prior to the issuance of any license.
      (4)   Sanitation facilities.
         (a)   Every licensee must provide at least one closed toilet facility
marked “Men” and one such facility marked “Women” on the premises of a public
amusement. If large crowds are expected, a toilet for each 40 males and for
each 40 females expected to be in attendance may be required.
         (b)   Where flush-type toilets cannot be made available, the
Supervisors may consent to the use of portable chemical toilets. The chemical
toilets must meet the approval of the county’s Health Officer before any
license may be issued. Chemical toilets must be emptied at licensee’s expense
as necessary and pursuant to procedures established by the county’s Health
Officer.
         (c)   Every licensee shall be required to furnish at least one trash
can with 32 gallons capacity for every 25 persons expected to be in attendance.
Proof that the requisite quantity of trash and refuse receptacles will be
available must be made to the county’s Health Officer. Trash and refuse shall
be emptied at licensee’s expense as necessary and pursuant to procedures
established by the county’s Health Officer.
      (5)   Medical facilities.
         (a)   Where a proposed public amusement is expected to attract large
numbers of persons and is planned for a site which is located a substantial
distance from existing medical treatment facilities, the applicant may be
required to provide emergency medical treatment facilities on the premises of
the public amusement. The location of the facilities, number of doctors,
psychiatrists, psychologists, nurses and other aides needed to staff the
facilities and the quantity of medical supplies, drugs, ambulances and other
equipment that must be on the site, must be approved by the county’s Health
Officer prior to the issuance of any license under this chapter.
         (b)   The county’s Health Officer shall calculate the need for medical
services, based on the number of persons expected to attend a public amusement,
their expected age group, the duration of events planned and the possibility of
exposure to inclement weather and outdoor elements.
      (6)   Parking areas.
         (a)   Every licensee shall provide adequate parking space for persons
attending a public amusement by motor vehicle as determined by the Director of
Public Works. The individual parking spaces shall be clearly marked and shall
be not less than nine feet wide and 20 feet long.
         (b)   The Director of Public Works must approve an applicant’s
“parking plan” before a license shall be issued.
      (7)   Access and parking control.
         (a)   Every licensee shall provide adequate ingress and egress to his
or her public amusement premises and parking areas therefor. Necessary roads,
driveways and entranceways shall exist to insure orderly flow of traffic into
the premises from a highway or road which is a part of the county system of
highways or which is a highway maintained by the state. The Director of Public
Works must approve the licensee’s plan for ingress and egress before a license
shall be issued.
         (b)   Additionally, any applicant may be required to show that traffic
guards are under his or her employ to insure orderly traffic movement and
relieve traffic congestion in the vicinity of the public amusement area.
      (8)   Hours of operation. All public amusements which are subject to
license under this chapter shall close and cease operation continuously between
the hours of 2:00 a.m. and 6:00 a.m. of each and every day.
      (9)   Illumination.
         (a)   Every licensee planning to conduct a public amusement after
dark, or planning to allow persons who attend the public amusement to remain on
the premises after dark, shall provide electrical illumination to insure that
those areas which are occupied, including areas used for parking, are lighted
at all times. The Director of Public Works must approve an applicant’s lighting
plan as a prerequisite to issuance of a license hereunder.
         (b)   A licensee may be required to illuminate specific areas on the
premises in accordance with the following scale of lighting intensity:
            1.   Open areas reserved for spectators: five to ten foot candles.
            2.   Stage areas: 75 to 100 foot candles.
            3.   Parking and overnight areas: one to five foot candles.
            4.   Restroom and concession areas: 20 to 50 foot candles.
      (10)   Overnight camping facilities. Every licensee authorized to allow
persons who attend the public amusement to remain on the premises overnight
shall provide camping facilities, including adequate firewood to supply the
needs of the estimated attendance, and overnight areas. The areas and
facilities must be approved by the county’s Health Officer and Public Works
Director prior to the issuance of any license.
      (11)   Bonds.
         (a)   Any licensee shall post an indemnity bond or a performance bond
in factor of the county in connection with the operation of a public amusement
in the amount determined by the Board of Supervisors. Bonds required by this
chapter must be approved by the District Attorney prior to issuance of any
license.
         (b)   An applicant may be required to submit a surety bond written by
a corporate bonding company authorized to do business in the state by the
Department of Insurance, in a penal amount determined by the Board of
Supervisors. The bond shall indemnify the county, its agents, officers,
servants and employees and the Board of Supervisors of the county against any
and all loss, injury and the damage of any nature whatsoever arising out of, or
in any way connected with, the public amusement and shall indemnify against
loss, injury and damage to both person and property.
         (c)   Additionally, the county may demand that applicant provide a
corporate surety bond written by a corporate bonding company authorized to do
business in the state, indemnifying the county and the owners of property
adjoining the public amusement site for any costs necessitated for cleaning up
or removing debris, trash or other waste from, in and around the premises. The
bond shall be in an amount determined by the Board of Supervisors.
      (12)   Fire protection. The licensee shall furnish the fire protection,
including personnel and equipment, at its own expense, as shall be required by
the Director of Public Works after consultation with the state’s Division of
Forestry.
      (13)   Enclosures. Licensee shall install, at its own expense, fences or
other structures as may be required to prevent persons attending the public
amusement from trespassing upon lands adjacent to the licensed premises.
      (14)   Miscellaneous. Any applicant may be required to meet any other
condition prior to receiving a license to conduct a public amusement which is
reasonably calculated as necessary to protect the health, welfare and property
of local residents and persons attending a public amusement.
(1966 Code, § 12A-12) (Ord. 297, § 12)
§ 7.09.013 UNLAWFUL ACTS; DECLARED NUISANCES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, partnership, corporation or
unincorporated association, acting alone or in concert with any of the
foregoing, to do any of the following:
      (1)   Operate a public amusement, as herein defined, without first
procuring a license to do so;
      (2)   Sell tickets, or offer to sell tickets, to a public amusement
without a license first having been obtained;
      (3)   Sell or offer for sale tickets to a public amusement in excess of
the number expected to attend as stated in the application;
      (4)   Advertise, or otherwise publicly announce, that a public amusement
will be held in the county without a license first having been received for the
conduct thereof;
      (5)   Provide entertainment at a public amusement, whether or not
compensation is paid for the performance of the entertainment, with the
knowledge that a license has not been obtained;
      (6)   Operate, conduct or carry on any public amusement in such a manner
as to create a public or private nuisance;
      (7)   Exhibit, show or conduct within such place of public amusement any
obscene, indecent, vulgar or lewd exhibition, show, play, entertainment or
exhibit, no matter by what name designated;
      (8)   Allow any person on the premises of the licensed public amusement
to cause or create a disturbance in, around or near any place of public
amusement by offensive or by disorderly conduct;
      (9)   Knowingly allow any person to consume, sell or be in possession of
intoxicating liquor while in a place of public amusement except where the
consumption or possession is expressly authorized under the terms of this
chapter and under the laws of the state; and
      (10)   Knowingly allow any person on the licensed public amusement to
use, sell or be in possession of any narcotic or dangerous drug while in,
around or near a place of public amusement.
   (B)   Any and all of the acts declared herein to be unlawful are hereby
further declared to be a public nuisance and the District Attorney of the
county shall, upon the order of the Board of Supervisors, immediately commence
action or proceedings for the abatement or enjoinment thereof in the manner
provided by law and shall take such other steps and shall apply to the court or
courts as may have jurisdiction to grant the relief and will abate and remove
the nuisance and enjoin any person, firm or corporation from doing or
committing any of the acts prohibited hereunder. The remedies provided for
herein shall be cumulative and not exclusive.
(1966 Code, § 12A-13) (Ord. 297, §§ 13, 15)
CHAPTER 7.11: WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS FACILITIES STANDARDS
Section
   
7.11.001   Intent and purpose
   
7.11.002   Findings
   
7.11.003   Submittal requirements
   
7.11.004   General standards
   
7.11.005   Location of wireless communication facilities
   
7.11.006   Permits required
   
7.11.007   Visual
   
7.11.008   Landscaping; vegetation
   
7.11.009   Public safety
   
7.11.010   Noise and traffic
   
7.11.011   Standard agreements
   
7.11.012   Electromagnetic frequency radiation
   
7.11.013   Facade-mounted telecommunications facilities
   
7.11.014   Roof-mounted telecommunications facilities
   
7.11.015   Ground-mounted telecommunication facilities
   
7.11.016   Freestanding monopoles
   
7.11.017   Co-location of telecommunications facilities
   
7.11.018   Base transceiver stations (BTS)
   
7.11.019   Definitions
   
7.11.020   Appeal
§ 7.11.001 INTENT AND PURPOSE.
   The purpose and intent of the telecommunications ordinance codified in this
chapter is to provide a uniform and comprehensive set of standards for the
orderly development, operation and maintenance of wireless telecommunications
facilities consistent with applicable federal standards. The standards
contained in this chapter are designed to promote public health, safety and
welfare and the aesthetic quality of the county as forth in the policies of the
general plan. It is also the intent of the county to provide the community with
the benefits of this technology without unduly restricting service providers.
(1966 Code, § 34-1) (Ord. 762, § 1(part), 2003)
§ 7.11.002 FINDINGS.
   (A)   Placement of wireless telecommunications facilities, such as antennas,
satellite dishes, support structures, base transceiver stations and other
devices used for the transmission or reception of electromagnetic waves can
have an adverse visual impact on the community. Placement of the facilities can
interfere with views of the streetscape, natural vegetation and scenery. The
facilities can conflict with adjacent architecture and with the design and the
scale of structures in the neighborhood. The cumulative effect of numerous
facilities and support structures can create a visual blight by concentrating
too many facilities upon one site, area or neighborhood.
   (B)   In order to protect the public health, safety and welfare, it is
necessary to insure that the siting of telecommunications facilities is
compatible in design and scale with its locale and is sited so as to minimize
adverse visual impacts on natural resources, neighborhoods, vistas, view
corridors, architecture and structures.
   (C)   Facilities (geographic location or physical location) on structures,
which already have similar installations (co-location sites), appear less
noticeable, up to the point where too many structures create a visual blight.
Installations on commercial or industrial structures are generally more
compatible with and less noticeable than installations on residential
structures due to the design, scale and locations of the structures.
   (D)   Therefore, in order to protect the public health, safety and welfare,
it is necessary to adopt the following regulations which will avoid or minimize
these impacts and will insure the proper design, location and scale of wireless
telecommunications facilities.
(1966 Code, § 34-2) (Ord. 762, § 1(part), 2003)
§ 7.11.003 SUBMITTAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   For all telecommunications facilities, the applicant shall provide the
information listed below. Application for a telecommunications facility shall
be submitted to the county’s Planning Department.
   (B)   The Planning Director may waive submittal requirements or require
additional information based on project specific factors:
      (1)   A site plan drawn to a measurable scale showing the metes and
bounds and existing features of the site including existing structures, roads,
trees and other significant natural features;
      (2)   A map showing how the proposed facility fits into the individual
service provider’s network of existing and proposed antenna sites;
      (3)   A map identifying all of the applicant’s existing
telecommunications facilities within the county (or relevant area). The map
shall include an illustration of the estimated coverage area (search area) for
all existing and proposed antenna sites for the applicant and/or service
provider;
      (4)   A letter explaining the site selection process including
information about other sites that were considered and reasons for their
rejection. In addition, carriers must demonstrate that facilities have been
designed to attain the minimum height required from a technological standpoint
for the proposed site;
      (5)   Visual impact demonstrations using photo simulations, story poles,
elevations or other visual or graphic illustrations to determine potential
visual impact including proper coloration and blending of the facility with the
proposed site (number of copies, if applicable, to be determined by the
Director);
      (6)   A revegetation and landscape plan in compliance with the county’s
water conservation plan that shows existing vegetation, indicating any
vegetation proposed for removal, and identifying proposed plantings by type,
size and location;
      (7)   A letter to the Director stating that the system, including the
antennas and associated base transceiver stations, conforms to the radio-
frequency radiation emission guidelines adopted by the FCC;
      (8)   Sufficient information to permit the county to make any required
determination under the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA);
      (9)   The application information required by San Benito County Code
Title 25 for the particular permit sought by the application;
      (10)   Noise/acoustical information for the base transceiver stations and
associated equipment such as air conditioning units; and
      (11)   Filing fees and fees for processing and monitoring the permit
application as established by resolution of the county’s Board of Supervisors.
(1966 Code, § 34-3) (Ord. 762, § 1(part), 2003)
§ 7.11.004 GENERAL STANDARDS.
   (A)   A telecommunications facility requires a use permit issued under San
Benito County Code Title 25, as amended from time to time.
   (B)   Extensive modifications to existing wireless communications facilities
shall be subject to the review and approval of the Planning Commission through
either a renewal review of the original use permit, or through amendment of the
original use permit. Minor changes, i.e., changing/adding antennas or base
receiver equipment, shall require a building permit and administrative review
by the Planning Department to determine if use permit and/or amendment shall be
necessary.
   (C)   The applicant shall provide written notification to the Director upon
cessation of operations on the site exceeding a 90-day period. The applicant
shall remove all obsolete or unused facilities from the site within 180 days of
termination of its lease with the property owner or cessation of operations.
   (D)   If a consecutive period of 180 days has lapsed since cessation of
operations, a new permit shall be required if the site is to be used again for
the same purpose as permitted under the original permit.
   (E)   The applicant shall provide signage as required, including phone
numbers of the utility provider, for use in case of emergency. The signs shall
be visibly posted at the communications equipment/structure (base station) in
English and Spanish.
   (F)   If the Director finds evidence that conditions of approval of a permit
for a telecommunications facility have not been fulfilled, the Director may
refer the permit to the Planning Commission and/or the county’s Board of
Supervisors for review. Upon the review, the county’s Planning Commission or
Board of Supervisors may modify or revoke the permit if the conditions have not
been met.
   (G)   Prior to issuance of any permits for new telecommunications
facilities, the applicant shall provide an irrevocable letter of credit or
other reasonable form of security satisfactory to county counsel for the
removal of the facility in the event that its use is abandoned or its use
permit is terminated. The amount of the bond is to be determined by the nature
of the project.
   (H)   The Planning Director shall determine the appropriate number of
telecommunications service providers per site. No more than three antenna
groupings from three different telecommunications carriers shall be placed on
any single monopole, unless technological advances in the design of the
antennas make them minimally obtrusive. A maximum of six support structures per
site shall be allowed provided the visual impacts can be mitigated to a level
of insignificance. Applicant may obtain a variance from the provisions of this
chapter upon demonstrating that the location of an additional support structure
at the site is essential for the provision of service in the applicant’s
service area, that good faith efforts were made to secure other locations, why
those efforts were unsuccessful, and that location at another site is not
technologically feasible.
   (I)   Whenever the county’s Code Enforcement Officer determines that any
property within the county is being maintained contrary to the provisions of
this chapter and constitutes a public nuisance, he or she may precede with
administrative abatement, pursuant to the San Benito County Code
Chapter 1.03, as amended from time to time.
   (J)   Renewal of use permit shall be required every five years.
(1966 Code, § 34-4) (Ord. 762, § 1(part), 2003)
§ 7.11.005 LOCATION OF WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS FACILITIES.
   (A)   Location preference for wireless communication facilities shall be
given to publicly-owned structures, co-location sites, and industrial or
commercial sites. New wireless communications facilities shall not locate sites
within 500 feet of residential areas or 1,500 feet of public or private
schools. Wireless telecommunication facilities approved prior to the adoption
of this chapter shall be exempt from setbacks adopted in this chapter until
such time as the use permit is due for renewal (five years).
   (B)   Preference shall be given to locations for wireless communications
facilities attached or sited adjacent to existing structures. Appropriate types
of existing structures may include, but not be limited to, buildings, telephone
and utility poles, signage and sign standards, and roadway overpasses.
(1966 Code, § 34-5) (Ord. 762, § 1(part), 2003)
§ 7.11.006 PERMITS REQUIRED.
   (A)   No telecommunications facility may be installed or erected except upon
approval of a use permit, pursuant to San Benito County Code Title 25, as
amended from time to time.
   (B)   
Table 7.11.006(1) identifies the type of permit required in each zoning
district.
Table 7.11.006(1) Required Permit Matrix
Zoning District
and General     Type of Telecommunications Facility
Plan
Designation*
                Facade-Mount Roof-Mount Ground-Mount Freestanding Stealth
                                                     Monopole     Facility
Table 7.11.006(1) Required Permit Matrix
Zoning
District and   Type of Telecommunications Facility
General Plan
Designation*
               Facade-Mount   Roof-Mount     Ground-Mount   Freestanding   Stealth
                                                            Monopole       Facility
Commercial/
Industrial M-  Use permit     Use permit     Use permit     Use permit     Use permit
I, M-2, C-1,
C-2, SH, MR
Public lands   Use permit     Use permit     Use permit     Use permit     Use permit
1. Williamson Act
2. County Open Space Land
3. Public Recreation Land
Agriculture
Zones: AR, AP, Use permit     Use permit     Use permit     Use permit     Use permit
R
Residential**:
RR, RT, R-1,   Use permit     Use permit     Use permit     Use permit     Use permit
RM, PUD
All Districts:
Minor
equipment      Administrative Administrative Administrative Administrative Administrative
alterations to review         review         review         review         review
existing
facilities
* Building permits required for wireless telecommunication projects in all zoning
districts.
** Residential setbacks = 500 feet, School District setbacks = 1,500 feet
 
   (C)   As used in this section, the following definitions apply.
      AGRICULTURAL ZONES. AR, AP, R.
      COMMERCIAL/INDUSTRIAL ZONE. The C-1, C-2, CM, M-I, SH and M-2 Zoning
Districts.
      PUBLICLY-OWNED. Publicly-owned land or structures located in all zoning
districts.
      RESIDENTIAL ZONES. RT, RR, RM, R-1 and PUD overlay zoning districts.
   (D)   The applicant shall submit additional documentation prepared at the
applicant’s cost including, but not limited to:
      (1)   Identifying locations where a facility can be installed without
prohibiting the applicant’s ability to provide its telecommunications service;
      (2)   Information concerning the applicant’s network of
telecommunications facilities; and
      (3)   Site selection criteria and radio frequency emission coverage.
   (E)   In granting or denying any permit required by this chapter, the county
shall make written findings as set out for the particular permit sought.
   (F)   The county may impose such conditions, as it deems appropriate or
necessary to further the purposes of this chapter, including, but not limited
to, requiring the redesign or relocation of the facility. Alternately, the
county may direct the applicant to redesign or relocate the facility and
resubmit a revised proposal for further consideration.
(1966 Code, § 34-6) (Ord. 762, § 1(part), 2003)
§ 7.11.007 VISUAL.
   (A)   All proposed telecommunications facilities shall be located so as to
minimize their visual impact to the maximum extent feasible.
   (B)   To the extent feasible, all facade-mounted telecommunications
facilities shall be sited and designed to appear as an integral part of the
structure.
   (C)   Facade-mounted antennas shall be integrated architecturally with the
style and character of the structure or otherwise made as unobtrusive as
possible. If possible, antennas should be located entirely within an existing
or newly created architectural feature so as to be completely screened from
view. To the extent feasible, facade-mounted antennas should not be located on
the front or most prominent facade of a structure and should be located out of
the pedestrian line-of-sight, unless stealthing techniques reasonably eliminate
visual impacts.
   (D)   Whenever possible, base transceiver stations, equipment cabinets,
back-up generators and other equipment associated with building-mounted
antennas shall be installed within the existing building envelope or
underground. If this is not feasible, the equipment shall be screened, fenced,
landscaped or otherwise treated architecturally to minimize its appearance from
off-site locations and to visually blend with the surrounding environment.
Equipment buildings shall be designed in an architectural style and constructed
of exterior building materials that are consistent with surrounding development
and/or land use setting (if applicable).
   (E)   Roof-mounted antennas and associated equipment shall be located as far
back from the edge of the roof as technically possible to minimize visibility
from street level locations. Where appropriate, construction of a rooftop
parapet wall or other appropriate screening to hide the facility may be
required.
   (F)   No advertising signage or identifying logos shall be displayed on any
telecommunications facility, except for small identification plates used for
emergency notification or hazardous or toxic material warning.
   (G)   The applicants are encouraged to consider providing architectural
treatments and to use “stealth techniques” to reduce potential visual impacts
for all telecommunication facilities, and especially for those proposed in
areas easily visible from a major traffic corridor or commercial center or in
residential areas. Stealth techniques can be required as conditions of approval
when determined to be necessary to mitigate adverse visual impact.
   (H)   The colors and materials of telecommunications facilities shall be
chosen to minimize the visual impact of the facilities. All telecommunications
facilities shall be painted a non-reflective matte finish color to blend with
the sky and/or predominant surroundings. The exact color shall be determined
based upon a photo simulation submitted by the applicant.
   (I)   Landscaping, whenever appropriate, shall be used as screening to
reduce the visual impacts of telecommunications facilities. Any proposed
landscaping shall be visually compatible with existing vegetation in the
vicinity. Any revegetation and landscape plan shall incorporate language to
comply with the county’s water conservation plan.
   (J)   Any vegetation that is disturbed during construction shall be restored
to its original condition. Planting used for restoration shall be similar to
the existing vegetation in the area.
   (K)   The use of lighting shall not be allowed on telecommunication
facilities unless required as a public safety measure and must comply with San
Benito County Code
Chapter 19.31, as amended from time to time.
   (L)   All proposed base transceiver stations should be the minimum size and
number feasible for the operation of the telecommunications network.
(1966 Code, § 34-7) (Ord. 762, § 1(part), 2003)
§ 7.11.008 LANDSCAPING; VEGETATION.
   (A)   Existing trees and other screening vegetation in the vicinity of the
proposed facility and associated access ways shall be protected from damage
both during and after construction. Submission of a tree protection plan may be
required to ensure compliance with this requirement and San Benito County Code
Chapter 19.33, as amended from time to time.
   (B)   All vegetation disturbed during project construction shall be
replanted with compatible vegetation and soils disturbed by development shall
be re-seeded to control erosion.
   (C)   Where appropriate, the applicant shall enter into a landscape
performance and maintenance agreement with the county to ensure the
installation and establishment of required landscaping. This agreement shall be
secured by financial guarantees in an amount equal to 150% of the estimated
cost of materials and labor for required improvements. The duration of the
landscape maintenance agreement shall be for a minimum period of two years.
   (D)   The emphasis of the landscape plan shall be to visually screen the
proposed facility and stabilize the soils on sloping sites.
   (E)   Introduced vegetation shall be native, drought tolerant species
compatible with the predominant natural setting of the project.
(1966 Code, § 34-8) (Ord. 762, § 1(part), 2003)
§ 7.11.009 PUBLIC SAFETY.
   (A)   In addition to providing visual screening, each telecommunications
facility shall require fencing, anti-climbing devices, electronic devices or
other techniques to prevent unauthorized access and vandalism; however, the use
of fencing shall not add to the visual impact of the facility and the design of
the fencing shall be subject to Planning Department review and approval.
   (B)   All security fencing or walls shall be designed to be graffiti-
resistant. The maintenance of all telecommunication facilities shall be the
responsibility of the carrier and in the event of a disaster or emergency, the
installations shall not interfere with any emergency service telecommunications
facilities transmission.
   (C)   Each telecommunications carrier shall be required to provide
additional information to the public by means of community meetings and/or
distribution of relevant literature.
(1966 Code, § 34-9) (Ord. 762, § 1(part), 2003)
§ 7.11.010 NOISE AND TRAFFIC.
   Normal maintenance activities shall only occur between the hours of 7:00
a.m. and 5:00 p.m., Monday through Saturday, excluding emergency repairs.
Backup generators shall only be operated during power outages or for testing
and maintenance between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m., Monday through
Saturday.
(1966 Code, § 34-10) (Ord. 762, § 1(part), 2003)
§ 7.11.011 STANDARD AGREEMENTS.
   If technological improvements or developments occur which allow the use of
materially smaller or less visually obtrusive equipment, the applicant shall be
required to replace or upgrade the approved facility upon renewal of a permit
application to minimize adverse effects related to land use compatibility,
visual resources, public safety or other environmental factors.
(1966 Code, § 34-11) (Ord. 762, § 1(part), 2003)
§ 7.11.012 ELECTROMAGNETIC FREQUENCY RADIATION.
   Wireless communications facilities operating alone and in conjunction with
other telecommunications facilities shall not generate electromagnetic
frequency (EMF) radiation in excess of the guidelines for permissible human
exposure to EMF as adopted by the Federal Communications Commission (FCC).
(1966 Code, § 34-12) (Ord. 762, § 1(part), 2003)
§ 7.11.013 FACADE-MOUNTED TELECOMMUNICATIONS FACILITIES.
   (A)   Facade-mounted telecommunications facilities shall be allowed in all
zoning districts subject to approval of a use permit and must comply with the
development standards included herein.
   (B)   Facade-mounted antennas shall be painted and textured to match the
existing structure, unless used as a design element consistently throughout the
building, which is found to add visual interest to the building. When used as a
design element, dummy elements may be required to be installed in order to
retain the architectural integrity of the building.
   (C)   Facade-mounted antennas shall be camouflaged by incorporating the
antennas as part of the dominant design element of the building.
   (D)   Antennas and the associated mountings shall generally not project
beyond a maximum of 18 inches from the face of the building.
(1966 Code, § 34-13) (Ord. 762, § 1(part), 2003)
§ 7.11.014 ROOF-MOUNTED TELECOMMUNICATIONS FACILITIES.
   (A)   Roof-mounted telecommunications facilities shall be allowed in all
zoning districts subject to approval of a use permit, but must comply with the
development standards included in this chapter.
   (B)   Freestanding roof-mounted antennas shall not be allowed on residential
buildings. However, roof-mounted antennas that incorporate appropriate stealth
techniques are allowed on buildings with residential uses.
   (C)   Freestanding roof-mounted antennas shall not be allowed when they are
placed in direct line of sight of significant view corridors or where they
significantly affect scenic vistas. However, the facilities shall be allowed
with incorporation of appropriate stealth techniques.
   (D)   The height of freestanding roof-mounted antennas including the support
structure shall not exceed the maximum height necessary for signal operation
and shall be determined on a case-by-case basis by the Planning Commission.
   (E)   All roof-mounted antennas shall be located in an area of the roof
where the visual impact is minimized.
   (F)   All roof-mounted facilities shall be painted a non-reflective matte
finish using an appropriate color that blends with the backdrop. The Planning
Director shall approve the applicant’s choice of colors on a case-by-case
basis.
   (G)   The equipment cabinets, if located on the rooftop of buildings, shall
be so located as to be minimally visible from any public right-of-way.
(1966 Code, § 34-14) (Ord. 762, § 1(part), 2003)
§ 7.11.015 GROUND-MOUNTED TELECOMMUNICATION FACILITIES.
   (A)   Ground-mounted antennas may be allowed in all zoning districts subject
to a use permit.
   (B)   Ground-mounted antennas height shall be determined by line of sight
transmission needs. The applicant shall provide documentation of height
required, i.e., calculations, relationship to other transmittal relay towers or
antennas and any other relevant information to support height requirements of
the facility.
   (C)   All proposed ground-mounted telecommunications facilities shall
require a visual analysis, which includes photo simulations demonstrating the
appearance of the site prior to and after installation.
   (D)   Proposed telecommunications facilities shall be located within reach
of existing access roads.
   (E)   Ground-mounted facilities shall be painted using non-reflective matte
finished shades of green and brown, where appropriate, and the Planning
Director shall approve the applicant’s final choice of colors on a case-by-case
basis.
   (F)   Landscaping shall be used to minimize any visual impacts. All proposed
vegetation shall be compatible with existing vegetation in the area and shall
be drought tolerant. Any revegetation and landscape plan shall incorporate
language to comply with the county’s water conservation plan and San Benito
County Code
Chapter 19.33, as amended from time to time.
   (G)   All associated base transceivers stations (BTS) for ground-mounted
facilities shall be evaluated on a case-by-case basis to ensure minimal visual
impact. BTS may be partially buried underground or use existing contours and
level differences to minimize height/visibility.
(1966 Code, § 34-15) (Ord. 762, § 1(part), 2003)
§ 7.11.016 FREESTANDING MONOPOLES.
   (A)   All monopole telecommunication facilities shall be allowed in all
zoning districts subject to approval of a use permit by the Planning Commission
and must comply with development standards in this chapter.
   (B)   Freestanding monopoles shall be located and designed to minimize
visual impacts. Freestanding monopoles in high visibility locations as
determined by the Planning Commission and/or Planning Director (as in some
commercial areas), shall incorporate stealth techniques to camouflage them as a
piece of art/sculpture, a clock tower, flagpole or other interesting,
appropriate and compatible visual form.
   (C)   Monopoles may not be located within the required front yard setback of
any property, unless appropriate architectural elements for a stealth facility
are incorporated in the design of the monopole.
   (D)   The applicant shall specifically state the reasons for not co-locating
on any of the existing monopoles and/or lattice towers within a one-mile
radius. As part of the application package, the applicant may also be asked to
provide a letter from the telecommunications carrier owning or operating the
existing facility stating the reasons for not permitting co-location.
   (E)   All freestanding monopoles shall be designed at the minimum functional
height required.
   (F)   As a condition of approval for all freestanding monopoles, all
telecommunications carriers proposing a monopole shall provide a written
commitment to the Planning Director that they shall allow other wireless
carriers to co-locate antennas on the monopoles where technologically and
economically feasible.
   (G)   Minor modifications to the communications equipment design, location,
elevations and other elements of the above standards may be allowed, subject to
review by the Planning Department and issuance of a building permit, if the
modifications are in keeping with the architectural statement and layout design
of the original use permit approval. Extensive modifications may require
Planning Commission review and/or an amended use permit application.
(1966 Code, § 34-16) (Ord. 762, § 1(part), 2003)
§ 7.11.017 CO-LOCATION OF TELECOMMUNICATIONS FACILITIES.
   (A)   Facilities shall make available unutilized space for co-location of
other antennas and equipment, including space for competing service providers.
   (B)   All second and third tier co-location antenna projects shall require a
use permit.
   (C)   All telecommunications carriers shall provide a letter to the Planning
Director stating their willingness to allow other carriers to co-locate on
their facilities wherever technologically and economically feasible.
   (D)   All co-location of telecommunications facilities with existing PG&E
owned or other existing utility facilities will require an administrative use
permit review and approval by the Planning Department and applicable building
permits will be required.
(1966 Code, § 34-17) (Ord. 762, § 1(part), 2003)
§ 7.11.018 BASE TRANSCEIVER STATIONS (BTS).
   (A)   The base transceiver stations (BTS) shall be placed in areas so they
are least visible from public rights-of-way and have minimal visual impacts.
Whenever possible, the BTS shall be located away from open spaces and required
zoning district setbacks shall be met. Any visible portion of the BTS shall be
treated to be architecturally compatible with the surrounding structures and
screened using appropriate techniques.
   (B)   Proposed base transceiver stations (BTS) may require screening from
public view. Screening techniques may include landscape treatment and/or
architectural treatment to make it compatible with existing landscaping and/or
buildings, or partially burying the cabinets.
   (C)   The BTS sizes and the proposed number of cabinets shall be the
absolute minimum required to function. Any future additions to the number of
BTS shall be subject to review and administrative review by the Planning
Director and/or planning staff. A building permit shall be obtained for all new
construction.
   (D)   If the contents of the BTS contain toxic or hazardous materials, a
sign shall be placed on or around the exterior of the BTS warning the public.
The size, placement and language (English/Spanish) of the sign shall be subject
to review and approval by the Planning Commission and/or Planning Director.
   (E)   Additional acoustical baffling equipment or techniques may be required
if the BTS exceeds the acceptable noise levels.
(1966 Code, § 34-18) (Ord. 762, § 1(part), 2003)
§ 7.11.019 DEFINITIONS.
   As used in this chapter, the following terms are defined.
   ANSI/IEEE. The current version of the ANSI standard governing human exposure
to RFR. The full title of the C95.1-1992 of the ANSI RFR standard is “Safety
Levels with Respect to Human Exposure to Radio Frequency Electromagnetic
Fields, 3 KHz to 300 GHz”. FCC recently adopted NCRP Report No. 86 (1986) to
govern RFR exposure.
   ANTENNA. A device or system of wires, poles, rods, dishes, discs or similar
devices used for the transmission and/or receipt of electromagnetic waves.
   BASE TRANSCEIVER STATION (BTS). The electronic equipment housed in cabinets
that together with antennas comprises a PCS facility of “site”. The cabinets
include an air conditioning unit, heating unit, electrical supply and telephone
hook-up and back-up power supply.
   CELLULAR SERVICE. A telecommunications facility comprising a single
telecommunications tower, monopole or building-supporting antennas owned or
used by more than one telecommunications carrier.
   CO-LOCATION. A telecommunications facility comprising a single
telecommunications tower, monopole or building supporting antennas owned or
used by more than one telecommunications carrier.
   DIGITAL SIGNAL. A nominally discontinuous electrical signal that changes
from one state to another in discrete steps. “Digital compression” allows large
amounts of information to be squeezed into a single conduit, allowing video
images to be transported in the same amount of space that previously could
carry only voice.
   DIRECTOR. The Director of Building and Planning Departments of San Benito
County or his or her authorized replacement.
   FACADE-MOUNTED ANTENNA. An antenna that is directly attached or affixed to
any facade of a building. Also known as BUILDING-MOUNTED ANTENNAE.
   FCC. Federal Communications Commission, the federal government agency that
licenses all radio services.
   FREESTANDING. A stand-alone structure that is attached to the roof of a
building and not to the facade of the building.
   FREESTANDING MONOPOLE. A stand-alone structure that is not camouflaged.
   GROUND-MOUNTED ANTENNA. An antenna with its support structure placed
directly on the ground, the total height of which does not exceed 15 feet
including the height of the antennas.
   HERTZ. A unit of frequency or cycles per second, abbreviated as Hz.
   GHz. Gigahertz or 1,000,000,000 cycles per second (1,000 MHZ = 1 GHz).
   LATTICE TOWER. An open steel frame structure used to support
telecommunications equipment.
   MHZ. Megahertz or 1,000,000 cycles per second.
   MICROWAVE. That portion of the radio spectrum between 950 MHZ and 30,000
MHZ.
   MONOPOLE. A structure composed of a single spire used to support
communications equipment.
   OMNI-DIRECTIONAL ANTENNA. An antenna that is equally effective in all
directions, the size of which varies with the frequency for which it is
designed.
   PANEL ANTENNA. An antenna or array of antennas designed to concentrate a
radio signal in a particular area. Panel antennas are typically flat,
rectangular, long devices approximately six square feet or less in size. Also
known as DIRECTIONAL ANTENNAS.
   ROOF-MOUNTED. An antenna directly attached or affixed to the roof of an
existing building, water tank, tower or structure other than a
telecommunications tower.
   STEALTH FACILITY. Any communications facility, which is designed to blend
into the surrounding environment, and is visually unobtrusive. Examples of
stealth facilities may include architecturally screened roof-mounted antennas;
building-mounted antennas painted and treated as architectural elements to
blend with the existing building. Also known as CONCEALED TELECOMMUNICATIONS
FACILITIES.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS. Any transmission, emission or reception of signals,
images and sound or information of any nature by wire, radio, visual or
electromagnetic system that work on a “line-of-sight” principle.
    TELECOMMUNICATION FACILITY. A land use facility supporting antennas that
sends and/or receives radio frequency signals. TELECOMMUNICATIONS FACILITIES
include antennas and all other types of equipment for the transmission or
receipt of the signal; telecommunication towers or similar structures built to
support the equipment; equipment cabinets (base transceiver stations), and
other accessory development.
   TELECOMMUNICATION TOWER. A monopole, lattice tower, freestanding tower or
other structures designed to support antennas.
   WHIP ANTENNA. An antenna that transmits signals in 360 degrees. WHIP
ANTENNAS are typically cylindrical in shape. They are also known as OMNI-
DIRECTIONAL, STICK OR PIPE ANTENNAS.
(1966 Code, § 34-19) (Ord. 762, § 1(part), 2003)
§ 7.11.020 APPEALS.
   (A)   Appeal of staff determination.
      (1)   Any person aggrieved by any decision by the Planning Director or
designated appointee regarding the wireless telecommunications ordinance made
under the provision of this chapter, may, within ten days from the date of the
decision, appeal to the Planning Commission. The appeal shall be in the form of
a written notice filed in duplicate with the county’s Planning Department and
shall set forth the grounds for the appeal. The appeal shall be considered at a
duly noticed public hearing.
      (2)   Upon hearing the appeal, the Planning Commission shall consider the
record and additional evidence as may by offered and may affirm, modify or
reverse, in whole or in part, the requirements, decision, determination or
ruling. The Planning Commission may make or substitute such other additional
decision or determination, as it may find warranted under the provisions of
this chapter.
      (3)   A uniform fee, as established by the Board of Supervisors, shall be
paid to the county upon filing of the appeal.
   (B)   Appeal of Planning Commission determination.
      (1)   Any person aggrieved by any decision of the Planning Commission
regarding the wireless telecommunications ordinance made under the provisions
of this chapter may, within ten days from the date of the decision, appeal to
the Board of Supervisors by written notice of appeal filed in duplicate with
the County Clerk and shall set forth specially wherein the Commission’s
findings and decisions were in error.
      (2)   Upon hearing the appeal, the Board of Supervisors shall consider
the record and such additional evidence as may be offered and may affirm,
modify or reverse, in whole or in part, the order, requirement, decision,
determination, interpretation or ruling appealed from, or make and substitute
such other additional decision and determination, as it may find warranted
under the provisions of this chapter. The standards herein established to
govern the discretion of the Commission shall apply with equal force to the
actions of the Board of Supervisors.
      (3)   The decision of the Board of Supervisors upon the appeal shall be
expressed by resolution in writing concurred in by a majority of all the
members of the Board of Supervisors, and the Supervisors shall forthwith
transmit a copy thereof to the original applicant, the appellant and the
Commission. If the decision is adverse to that of the Commission on any action
concerning the administration or enforcement of any provisions of this chapter,
the resolution of the Board of Supervisors shall specify wherein there was an
error or abuse of discretion on the part of the Commission.
(1966 Code, § 34-20) (Ord. 762, § 1(part), 2003)
CHAPTER 7.13: PROHIBITING SALES OF FLAVORED TOBACCO PRODUCTS AND SINGLE USE
ELECTRONIC CIGARETTES
Section
   
7.13.001   Purpose
   
7.13.002   Title of ordinance
   
7.13.003   Definitions
   
7.13.004   Sale or offer for sale of flavored tobacco products and single use
electronic cigarettes prohibited
   
7.13.005   Enforcement
§ 7.13.001 PURPOSE.
   It is the intent of the Board of Supervisors, in enacting the ordinance
codified in this chapter, to ensure compliance with the business standards and
practices of the county and to encourage responsible tobacco retailing and to
discourage violations of tobacco-related laws, especially those which prohibit
or discourage the sale or distribution of tobacco products to youth, but not to
expand or reduce the degree to which the acts regulated by federal or state law
are criminally proscribed or to alter the penalties provided therein. The
provisions of this chapter shall apply within the unincorporated and
incorporated areas of San Benito County.
(Ord. 1044, § 1, 2022)
§ 7.13.002 TITLE OF ORDINANCE.
   The ordinance codified in this chapter is titled “Prohibiting Sales of
Flavored Tobacco Products and Single Use Electronic Cigarettes.”
(Ord. 1044, § 2, 2022)
§ 7.13.003 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following words and terms shall have
the following meaning:
   CHARACTERIZING FLAVOR. A distinguishable taste or aroma, or both, other than
the taste or aroma of tobacco, imparted either prior to or during the
consumption of a tobacco product. CHARACTERIZING FLAVORS include, but are not
limited to tastes or aromas relating to any fruit, chocolate, vanilla, honey,
candy, cocoa, dessert, alcoholic beverage, menthol, mint, wintergreen, herb, or
spice.
   DISTINGUISHABLE. Perceivable by either the sense of smell or taste of an
ordinary consumer.
   ELECTRONIC SMOKING DEVICE. Any device that may be used to deliver any
aerosolized or vaporized substance to the person inhaling from the device,
including, but not limited to, an e-cigarette, e-cigar, e-pipe, vape pen, or e-
hookah. ELECTRONIC SMOKING DEVICE includes any component, part, or accessory of
the device, and also includes any substance that may be aerosolized or
vaporized by such device, whether or not the substance contains nicotine.
ELECTRONIC SMOKING DEVICE does not include drugs, devices, or combination
products authorized for sale by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, as those
terms are defined in the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act.
   FLAVORED TOBACCO PRODUCT. Any tobacco product that imparts a characterizing
flavor.
   LABELING Written, printed, pictorial, or graphic matter upon any tobacco
product or any of its packaging.
   PACKAGING. A pack, box, carton, or container of any kind or, if no other
container, any wrapping (including cellophane) in which a tobacco product is
sold, or offered for sale, to a consumer.
   SALE, SELL or TO SELL. Any transaction where, for any consideration,
ownership is transferred from one person or entity to another including, but
not limited to any transfer of title or possession for consideration, exchange
or barter, in any manner by any means.
   SINGLE USE ELECTRONIC CIGARETTE. Any single-use device or delivery system
sold in combination with nicotine which can be used to deliver to a person
nicotine in aerosolized or vaporized form, including but not limited to, a
single-use e-cigarette, e-cigar, e-pipe, vape pen, or e-hookah. SINGLE USE
ELECTRONIC CIGARETTES shall not include any product that has been approved by
the Food and Drug Administration for sale as a tobacco cessation product or
other therapeutic purposes where that product is marketed and sold solely for
such approved use.
   STATE. The State of California.
   TOBACCO PRODUCT.
      (1)   Any product containing, made of, or derived from tobacco or
nicotine that is intended for human consumption or is likely to be consumed,
whether inhaled, absorbed, or ingested by any other means, including but not
limited to, a cigarette, a cigar, pipe tobacco, chewing tobacco, snuff, or
snus;
      (2)   Any electronic smoking device and any substances that may be
aerosolized or vaporized by such device, whether or not the substance contains
nicotine; or
      (3)   Any component, part, or accessory of (1) or (2), above, whether or
not any of these contains tobacco or nicotine, including but not limited to
filters, rolling papers, blunt or hemp wraps, hookahs, mouthpieces, and pipes.
   TOBACCO PRODUCT does not mean drugs, devices, or combination products
authorized for sale by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, as those terms
are defined in the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act.
   TOBACCO RETAILER. Any person who engages in tobacco retailing.
   TOBACCO RETAILING. Selling, offering for sale, exchanging, or offering to
exchange for any form of consideration, tobacco, tobacco products, or tobacco
paraphernalia without regard to the quantity sold, offered for sale, exchanged,
or offered for exchange.
(Ord. 1044, § 3, 2022)
§ 7.13.004 SALE OR OFFER FOR SALE OF FLAVORED TOBACCO PRODUCTS AND SINGLE USE
ELECTRONIC CIGARETTES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be a violation of this chapter for any tobacco retailer or
any of the tobacco retailer’s agents or employees to sell or offer for sale any
flavored tobacco product within the incorporated and unincorporated areas of
the county.
   (B)   There shall be a rebuttable presumption that a tobacco product is a
flavored tobacco product if a tobacco retailer, manufacturer, or any employee
or agent of a tobacco retailer or manufacturer has:
      (1)   Made a statement or claim directed to consumers or to the public
that the tobacco product has or produces a characterizing flavor;
      (2)   Used text and/or images on the tobacco products’ labeling or
packaging to explicitly or implicitly indicate that the tobacco product imparts
a characterizing flavor; or
      (3)   Taken action directed to consumers that would be reasonably
expected to cause consumers to believe the tobacco product imparts a
characterizing flavor.
   (C)   It shall be a violation of this chapter for any tobacco retailer or
any of the tobacco retailer’s agents or employees to sell or offer for sale,
any single use electronic cigarette within the incorporated and unincorporated
areas of the county.
   (D)   All tobacco retailers are responsible for the actions of their
employees relating to the sale, offer to sell, and furnishing of tobacco
products and single use electronic cigarettes at the retail location. The sale
of any tobacco product or single use electronic cigarette by an employee shall
be considered an act of the tobacco retailer.
(Ord. 1044, § 4, 2022)
§ 7.13.005 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Violation of any provision of this chapter shall constitute an
infraction and will be grounds for issuance of a notice of violation and
assessment of an administrative citation and penalty by the county’s
enforcement officer or its designated enforcement agency.
   (B)   Enforcement actions under this chapter are issuance of an
administrative citation and assessment of a fine. Any section of this chapter
may be enforced by the county, or, if agreed to, by its designated enforcement
agency.
   (C)   A tobacco retailer, is guilty of an infraction and shall be punished
by a fine of $250 for each violation of this section. All tobacco retailers are
responsible for the actions of their employees relating to the sale, offer to
sell, and furnishing of tobacco products or single use electronic cigarettes at
the retail location. The sale of any tobacco product or single use electronic
cigarette by an employee shall be considered an act of the tobacco retailer.
   (D)   The enforcement agency for the provisions of this chapter is the
county and any designated enforcement agency authorized by the county to
enforce one or more sections of this chapter.
(Ord. 1044, § 5, 2022)
CHAPTER 7.14: MICROENTERPRISE HOME KITCHEN OPERATIONS
Section
   
7.14.001   Purpose and intent
   
7.14.002   Authority
   
7.14.003   Definitions
   
7.14.004   Permit requirements and permit fees
   
7.14.005   Suspension and revocation of permits
   
7.14.006   Operational requirements and prohibitions
   
7.14.007   Inspections
   
7.14.008   Enforcement
§ 7.14.001 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   This chapter's purpose and intent are to allow small-scale, direct food
sales from home-based food facilities to prioritize locally prepared foods to
consumers. This entry into the food economy will help provide access to
guidelines, training, and safety resources. The provisions of this chapter
shall apply to all microenterprise home kitchen operations within the
unincorporated and incorporated areas of the county, as and to the extent
permitted under Cal. Health and Safety Code § 114367.
(Ord. 1046, § 1, 2022)
§ 7.14.002 AUTHORITY.
   The Cal. Health and Safety Code Division 104, Part 7 (§§ 11370 et seq.),
also referred to as the California Retail Food Code, provides statewide health
and sanitation standards for retail food facilities. Assembly Bill 626 was
passed on September 18, 2018, adding to and amending sections of the Cal.
Health and Safety Code relating to food safety. This chapter is adopted in
accordance with Assembly Bill 626 and pursuant to the Board of Supervisors'
police powers as set forth under § 7 of Article XI of the State Constitution.
This chapter shall be administered and implemented by the Environmental Health
Services division of the county Public Health Department.
(Ord. 1046, § 2, 2022)
§ 7.14.003 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following terms have the following
meanings:
   CRFC. The California Retail Food Code as codified in the Cal. Health and
Safety Code §§ 113700 et seq., as it may be amended from time to time.
   DEPARTMENT. The county Public Health Department, Environmental Health
Services division.
   ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. The Deputy Director of Public Health, their duly
authorized designees, and any person appointed by the Deputy Director to
enforce or administer this chapter.
   EQUIPMENT. Has the same meaning as that term is defined in Cal. Health and
Safety Code § 113777.
   FOOD. Has the same meaning as that term is defined in Cal. Health and Safety
Code § 113781.
   FOOD FACILITY. Has the same meaning as that term is defined in Cal. Health
and Safety Code § 113789.
   FOOD HANDLER. A person who prepares, handles, packages, serves, or stores
food, handles utensils, or assists another person in any of those tasks at a
food facility.
   HSC. The California Health and Safety Code.
   LOCAL ENFORCEMENT AGENCY or THE LEA. The county Environmental Health
Services Division and its designated employees and other designated agents.
   MICROENTERPRISE HOME KITCHEN OPERATION (MEHKO). As defined by Cal. Health
and Safety Code § 113825, is a food facility with gross annual sales limits
outlined in Cal. Health and Safety Code § 113825(a)(7), operated by a MEHKO
operator and having not more than one full-time equivalent food employee, not
including a family member or household member of the MEHKO operator, and
conducted within the permitted area of a private home where the MEHKO operator
resides and where microenterprise home kitchen foods are prepared or packaged
for direct sales or delivery to consumers pursuant to Cal. Health and Safety
Code § 113825(a)(3).
   MICROENTERPRISE HOME KITCHEN OPERATION OPERATOR. The resident of the private
home who holds the permit for the MEHKO and is responsible for its operation.
   PERMIT. A document issued by the LEA that authorizes a person to operate a
MEHKO.
   PERMIT HOLDER. The entity that is legally responsible for the
microenterprise home kitchen operation, such as the owner, the owner's agent,
or other person, and that possesses a permit to operate a MEHKO.
   PERMITTED AREA. A private home kitchen described and authorized in the
permit for the MEHKO, onsite consumer eating area, toilet room, janitorial or
cleaning facilities, refuse storage area, and attached rooms within the home
that are used exclusively for food, utensil, and equipment storage. Any other
detached rooms on the premises, including accessory buildings and garages, may
be used to store food items only if all food is stored inside an approved
refrigerator and/or freezer with a closable door/lid. Sleeping quarters or
second units are not included as a permitted area.
   PERSON. Has the same meaning as that term is defined in Cal. Health and
Safety Code § 113855, as that section may be amended from time to time.
   POTABLE WATER. Water that complies with the standards of transient non-
community water systems pursuant to the California Safe Drinking Water Act,
commencing with Cal. Health and Safety Code § 116270 to the extent permitted by
federal law.
   RESIDENT OF A PRIVATE HOME. An individual who resides in the private home
when not elsewhere for labor or other unique or temporary purposes.
   TABLEWARE. Has the same meaning as that term is defined in Cal. Health and
Safety Code § 113926.
   UTENSIL. Has the same meaning as that term is defined in Cal. Health and
Safety Code § 113934.
(Ord. 1046, § 3, 2022)
§ 7.14.004 PERMIT REQUIREMENTS AND PERMIT FEES.
   (A)   No person shall conduct, operate, or open a MEHKO unless the person
has obtained a health permit issued by the LEA, and such permit remains valid.
A permit issued by the LEA shall remain valid for one calendar year from the
date of issuance of the permit and shall require annual renewal provided,
however, no permit shall remain valid after this chapter expires. All
applicants for a permit and permit holders seeking renewal of an existing
permit shall submit an application accompanied by such materials as required by
the LEA and the applicable permit fees paid. The permit application for any
MEHKO permit shall, at a minimum, include the following:
      (1)   A completed MEHKO application provided by the LEA.
      (2)   Written standard operating procedures for the MEHKO as described in
the CRFC of Cal. Health and Safety Code § 114367.2(c), as such section may be
amended from time to time; and
      (3)   Proof acceptable to the LEA that the applicant has successfully
completed an approved and accredited food safety certification course and
passed an approved and accredited food safety certification examination, as
specified in the CRFC of Cal. Health and Safety Code § 113947.1, as such
section may be amended from time to time.
   (B)   Initial inspection before permit issuance. The LEA shall issue an
initial permit only after the LEA has conducted an initial inspection of the
proposed MEHKO location and determined that the proposed MEHKO and its method
of the operation comply with CRFC of Cal. Health and Safety Code Chapter 11.6.
The LEA will contact each permit applicant to schedule an initial inspection of
the proposed MEHKO once the LEA has confirmed that the applicant has submitted
an application in conformance with the requirements set forth in this section.
   (C)   A MEHKO permit shall be valid for one calendar year from the date of
issue and may be renewed annually and is not transferable. Permit holders shall
not transfer permits to any other person or to operations at any other place. A
permit is only valid for the person and place specified in the permit and for
the period indicated therein (unless the permit is suspended or revoked for
cause).
   (D)   MEHKO permits may be modified, suspended, or revoked as provided in
the CRFC.
   (E)   Prominent display. Permits must be prominently displayed on the site
of the MEHKO during all hours of operation.
   (F)   The applicant shall obtain a business license from the jurisdiction
where MEHKO activities will occur if the jurisdiction requires a business
license.
   (G)   Financial compliance. The LEA shall not approve an application for a
new permit or renewal of an existing permit until the permit holder has paid
all applicable fees, outstanding fees, and administrative fines that the permit
holder owes to the LEA.
      (1)   Annual permit. Actual cost at an hourly rate of $110. This fee
covers annual inspections;
      (2)   Plan check. Actual cost at an hourly rate of $110. This fee covers
the initial plan check and addresses any MEHKO changes, facility remodel, or
menu changes.
   (H)   The annual permit and plan check fee listed in this section shall be
valid until the county master fee schedule is revised to incorporate this new
fee therein, or chapter expiration. Before incorporating these new fees into
the county master fee schedule, a time/cost accounting study will be completed
to ensure that the proposed fee is adequate, fair, or adjusted accordingly.
Once the county master fee schedule has been updated, the fee listed in this
section shall be void, and the fee in the county master fee schedule shall be
the valid fee. Any annual permit shall be valid until the end of the calendar
year in which it is obtained, or the expiration of this chapter.
(Ord. 1046, § 4, 2022)
§ 7.14.005 SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION OF PERMITS.
   (A)   Grounds. The LEA may suspend or revoke a permit if the LEA determines
that information submitted in connection with an application for a permit or to
renew a permit was materially false or that information material to the permit
application or application to renew a permit was misrepresented, withheld, or
concealed, in addition to failure to comply with the requirements of the CRFC.
   (B)   Notice of suspension or revocation. The LEA may initiate the
suspension or revocation of a permit by either of the two actions: on the site
of a MEHKO in an LEA inspection report; or issuance by the LEA of a notice of
violation, which sets forth in clear and concise language the acts or omissions
with which the permit holder is charged and informs the permit holder of their
right to a hearing, if requested, to show cause why the permit should not be
suspended or revoked. Regardless of the method used to initiate the suspension
or revocation of a permit, the LEA shall send to permit holder by certified
mail, a copy of the notice document, and the permit holder shall be afforded an
opportunity for a hearing and the written notice that the LEA provides to
permit holder shall describe permit holder's hearing rights, in accordance with
the CRFC of Cal. Health and Safety Code § 114405, as this section may be
amended from time to time.
   (C)   Reinstatement of permit; issuance of new permit. A permit may be
reinstated, or a new permit issued if the LEA determines that the conditions
that prompted the suspension or revocation no longer exist.
   (D)   Evidence. The following rules shall apply to any hearing required by
this chapter. Any hearing that takes place pursuant to this chapter shall be
conducted in accordance with the provisions of the CRFC of Cal. Health and
Safety Code § 114405, as this section may be amended from time to time. All
parties shall have the right to offer a relevant testimonial, documentary, and
tangible evidence bearing on the issues. Formal rules of evidence and discovery
do not apply to proceedings governed by this chapter. Unless otherwise
specifically prohibited by law, at a hearing conducted under this chapter, the
LEA shall have the burden to establish the existence of a violation of the CRFC
by the permit holder, and thereafter, the permit holder shall have the burden
to establish why the permit holder's permit should not be suspended or revoked,
whichever is applicable.
   (E)   Written notice of decision. If the permit holder requests a hearing in
accordance with the procedures set forth in Cal. Health and Safety Code §
114405, the Hearing Officer shall issue a written notice of a decision to the
permit holder in accordance with Cal. Health and Safety Code § 114407, as this
section may be amended from time to time. The Hearing Officer's written notice
of decision shall be a final administrative order, with no further
administrative right of appeal or reconsideration. The Hearing Officer may
sustain a suspension or revocation, overrule a suspension or revocation, reduce
a revocation to a suspension and/or reduce the length of a suspension. Further,
the Hearing Officer may stay the effective date of any suspension for a
reasonable time following a hearing.
   (F)   Closure of operation; re-application. Any MEHKO for which the permit
has been suspended shall close and remain closed until the permit has been
reinstated. Any MEHKO for which the permit has been revoked shall close and
remain closed until a new permit has been issued. No re-application will be
accepted within one year after a permit is revoked.
(Ord. 1046, § 5, 2022)
§ 7.14.006 OPERATIONAL REQUIREMENTS AND PROHIBITIONS.
   Consistent with, and in addition to, the operational requirements and
exemptions set forth in Cal. Health and Safety Code §§ 114367 et seq., a MEHKO
shall comply with all the following:
   (A)   The MEHKO operator shall successfully pass an approved and accredited
Food Safety Certification Examination, in compliance with Cal. Health and
Safety Code § 113947.1, and shall submit proof of certification with the permit
application for a MEHKO operation.
   (B)   Any person(s) participating in the MEHKO shall obtain a Food Handler
Certification within ten days of such participation as specified in Cal. Health
and Safety Code § 113948.
   (C)   All MEHKO food must be stored, prepared, packaged, transported, kept
for sale, and served to be pure and free from adulteration and spoilage and
protected from contamination.
   (D)   All food storage within the permitted area shall comply with CRFC of
Cal. Health and Safety Code Chapter 4, Article 5. Any other detached rooms on
the premises, including accessory buildings and garages, may be used to store
food items only if all food is stored inside an approved refrigerator and/or
freezer with a closable door/lid. Sleeping quarters or second units are not
included as a permitted area.
   (E)   Only one MEHKO may operate per residence.
   (F)   No MEHKO food preparation, packaging, or handling may occur concurrent
with any other domestic activities, including, but not limited to, family meal
preparation, guest entertaining, or dishwashing.
   (G)   Other than service animals, as defined in the Code of Federal
Regulation Title 28, § 35.104, all animals shall be excluded from the kitchen
and dining areas during food service and preparation.
   (H)   Equipment and utensils used to produce MEHKO food shall be smooth,
easily cleanable, and maintained in a good state of repair.
   (I)   All food contact surfaces, equipment, and utensils used for the
preparation, packaging, or handling of any MEHKO food shall be washed, rinsed,
and sanitized before each use.
   (J)   All MEHKO potentially hazardous food must be stored and transported
with proper internal food temperatures.
   (K)   All permitted areas and vehicles used to transport shall be maintained
clean, sanitary, in a good state of repair, and free of rodents and insects.
   (L)   No preparation, packaging, storage, or handling of MEHKO food and
related ingredients and/or equipment shall occur outside the permitted area.
   (M)   A person with a contagious illness shall not work in the MEHKO.
   (N)   A person involved in the preparation or packaging of MEHKO food shall
keep their hands and exposed portions of their arms clean and properly wash
their hands before any food preparation or packaging activity.
   (O)   Water used during the preparation of MEHKO food products shall meet
potable drinking water standards. MEHKO operators whose potable water supply
comes from a private well shall submit with their permit application sample
results verifying the water supply meets at minimum a "transient noncommunity
water system" standard, as defined in Cal. Health and Safety Code § 116275(o).
Sample results shall include nitrate, nitrite, bicarbonate, sodium, total
hardness, and bacteriological water quality.
   (P)   The private sewage disposal system must be adequate for the additional
liquid waste.
   (Q)   No signage or other outdoor displays advertising the MEHKO are
allowed.
   (R)   All MEHKO food shall be prepared, cooked, and served on the same day.
   (S)   MEHKO food shall be consumed offsite if the food is picked up or
delivered to the consumer. The sale of MEHKO food through an internet food
service intermediary is a direct sale. The MEHKO cannot provide food to any
wholesaler or retailer for resale and is not a cottage food operation as
defined in Cal. Health and Safety Code § 113758, nor a catering operation as
defined in Cal. Health and Safety Code § 113739.1(a).
   (T)   A person who delivers food on behalf of a MEHKO shall be an employee,
family member, or household member of the MEHKO operator.
   (U)   Only state Department of Public Health-approved internet food service
intermediaries may be used.
   (V)   MEHKO may not engage in food processes that would require a HACCP plan
as specified in Cal. Health and Safety Code § 114419, or produce, serve, or
sell raw milk or raw milk products as defined in Cal. Code of Regulations Title
17 § 11380, or serve raw oysters.
   (W)   Food preparation is limited to no more than 30 individual meals per
day, or the approximate equivalent of meal components when sold separately, and
no more than 60 individual meals per week, or the approximate equivalent of
meal components when sold separately. The department may decrease the number of
individual meals prepared based on the food preparation capacity of the MEHKO
but shall not, in any case, increase the limit of the number of individual
meals prepared.
   (X)   The MEHKO has no more than $50,000 in verifiable gross annual sales,
as adjusted annually for inflation based on the state Consumer Price Index.
   (Y)   For MEHKO with cooking equipment, a properly charged and maintained
minimum of ten BC-rated fire extinguishers to combat grease fires shall be
readily accessible. A first aid kit shall be provided and located in a
convenient, accessible area.
   (Z)   Special accommodations may be required during a public health
emergency.
(Ord. 1046, § 6, 2022)
§ 7.14.007 INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   The LEA may conduct inspections of a MEHKO consistent with the CRFC of
Cal. Health and Safety Code § 114367.3.
   (B)   If an applicant refuses to allow an inspection or is otherwise unable
to allow an inspection within a reasonable time, permits may be denied,
revoked, or placed on hold.
(Ord. 1046, § 7, 2022)
§ 7.14.008 ENFORCEMENT.
   Notwithstanding the remedies outlined in Cal. Health and Safety Code §§
114390, 114405, and 114409, the department reserves the right to issue
administrative citations in accordance with Cal. Gov’t Code § 53069.4. An
administrative citation may be issued for any violation of this chapter. The
following procedures shall govern the imposition, enforcement, collection, and
administrative review of administrative citations and penalties.
   (A)   Notice of violation. If the violation is not corrected within the
period stated in the notice of violation, or if the violation creates an
immediate danger to health or safety, an administrative citation may be issued
by the enforcement officer. The notice of violation shall specify the way the
conditions of the MEHKO violate the provisions of this chapter and the
corrective actions required to correct the condition or conduct. The notice
shall also state that failure to come into compliance with this chapter could
subject the registrant or permittee of the MEHKO to administrative and criminal
penalties. The failure of the notice to set forth all required contents shall
not affect the validity of the proceedings.
   (B)   Content of citation. The administrative citation shall be issued on a
form approved by County Counsel and shall contain the information listed below.
The failure of the citation to set forth all required contents shall not affect
the validity of the proceedings.
      (1)   Date, location, and approximate time the violation was observed.
      (2)   The section violated and a brief description of the violation.
      (3)   The amount of the administrative penalty imposed for the violation.
      (4)   Instructions for the payment of the penalty, the time period by
which it shall be paid, and the consequences of failure to pay the penalty
within this time period.
      (5)   Instructions on how to appeal the citation.
      (6)   The signature of the enforcement officer.
   (C)   Service citation.
      (1)   If the registrant, permittee or other person who has violated the
chapter is present at the scene of the violation, the enforcement officer shall
attempt to obtain their signature on the administrative citation and shall
deliver a copy of the administrative citation to them.
      (2)   If the registrant, permittee or other person who has violated the
chapter cannot be located at the property, then the administrative citation
shall be posted in a conspicuous place on or near the property and a copy
mailed by certified mail, return receipt requested to the registrant or
permittee who has violated the chapter. The citation shall be mailed to the
property address and/or the address listed for the owner.
      (3)   The failure of any interested person to receive the citation shall
not affect the validity of the proceedings.
   (D)   Administrative penalties.
      (1)   The penalties assessed for each violation shall not exceed the
following amounts, pursuant to §
1.04.005(A):
         (a)   $100 for a first violation.
         (b)   $200 for a second violation of the same chapter within one year;
and
         (c)   $500 for each additional violation of the same chapter within
one year.
      (2)   If the violation is not corrected, additional administrative
citations may be issued for the same violation. The amount of the penalty shall
increase at the rate specified above.
      (3)   Payment of the penalty shall not excuse the failure to correct the
violation, nor shall it bar further enforcement action.
      (4)   The penalties assessed shall be payable to the county.
      (5)   Penalties assessed pursuant to this section shall be in addition to
the recovery of costs representing staff time necessary for the investigation
of violations of this chapter and/or its enforcement.
   (E)   Administrative appeal.
      (1)   Notice of appeal. The recipient of an administrative citation may
appeal the citation by filing a written notice of appeal with the department.
The written notice of appeal must be filed within 20 days of the service of the
administrative citation. Failure to file a written notice of appeal within this
time period shall constitute a waiver of the right to appeal the administrative
citation. The notice of appeal shall contain the following information:
         (a)   A brief statement setting forth the appellant's interest in the
proceedings.
         (b)   A brief statement of the material facts which the appellant
claims support his or her contention that no administrative penalty should be
imposed or that an administrative penalty of a different amount is warranted.
         (c)   An address at which the appellant agrees notice of any
additional proceeding or an order relating to the imposition of the
administrative penalty may be received by mail.
         (d)   The notice of appeal must be signed by the appellant.
      (2)   Administrative hearing. Upon a timely written request by the
recipient of the administrative citation, an administrative hearing shall be
held as follows:
         (a)   Notice of hearing. Notice of the administrative hearing shall be
given at least ten days before the hearing to the person requesting the
hearing. The notice may be delivered to the person or may be mailed to the
address listed in the notice of appeal.
         (b)   Hearing Officer. The administrative hearing shall be held before
the Board of Supervisors or the county Hearing Officer. The Hearing Officer
shall not be the enforcement officer who issued the administrative citation or
their immediate supervisor or subordinate. The Board of Supervisors or the
county Hearing Officer may contract with a qualified provider to conduct
administrative hearings or to process administrative citations.
      (3)   Conduct of the hearing. Except as may be required by the Hearing
Officer, the enforcement officer who issued the administrative citation is not
required to participate in the administrative hearing. The contents of the
enforcement officer's file in the case shall be admitted as prima facie
evidence of the facts stated therein. The Hearing Officer shall not be limited
by the technical rules of evidence. If the person requesting the appeal fails
to appear at the administrative hearing, the Hearing Officer shall make his or
her determination based on the information contained in the notice of appeal.
      (4)   Hearing Officer's decision. The Hearing Officer's decision
following the administrative hearing shall be delivered to the person
requesting the hearing personally or sent by mail. The Hearing Officer may
allow payment of the administrative penalty in installments if the person
provides evidence satisfactory to the Hearing Officer of an inability to pay
the penalty in full. The Hearing Officer's decision shall contain instructions
for obtaining a review of the decision by the superior court.
      (5)   Review of administrative Hearing Officer's decision.
         (a)   Notice of appeal. Within 20 days of the date of the delivery or
mailing of the Hearing Officer's decision, a person may contest that decision
by filing an appeal to be heard by the superior court. The failure to file the
written appeal and to pay the filing fee within this period shall constitute a
waiver of the right to an appeal and the decision shall be deemed confirmed. A
copy of the notice of appeal shall be served in person or by first-class mail
upon the issuing agency by the contestant.
         (b)   Conduct of hearing. The conduct of the appeal is a subordinate
judicial duty and may be performed by traffic trial commissioners and other
subordinate judicial officials at the direction of the presiding judge of the
court. The appeal shall be heard de novo, except that the contents of the
issuing agency's file in the case shall be received in evidence. A copy of the
document or instrument of the issuing agency providing notice of the violation
and imposition of the administrative penalty shall be admitted into evidence as
prima facie evidence of the facts stated therein. The court shall request that
the issuing agency's file on the case be forwarded to the court, to be received
within 15 days of the request.
         (c)   Judgment. The court shall retain the fee regardless of the
outcome of the appeal. If the court finds in favor of the contestant, the
amount of the fee shall be reimbursed to the contestant by the department. Any
deposit of the fine or penalty shall be refunded by the issuing agency in
accordance with the judgment of the court. If the fine or penalty has not been
deposited and the decision of the court is against the contestant, the issuing
agency may proceed to collect the penalty pursuant to any manner provided by
law.
(Ord. 1046, § 8, 2022)
TITLE 9: OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
9.01.   OFFENSES—MISCELLANEOUS
      
9.03.   FALSE ALARMS
      
9.04.   SAN BENITO RIVER REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 9.01: OFFENSES–MISCELLANEOUS
Section
Article I. In General
   
9.01.001   Alcoholic beverages; defined
   
9.01.002   Same; consuming in certain public places; generally
   
9.01.003   Same; same; public events
   
9.01.004   Assemblies and the like; near fires, earthquakes, disasters and the
like
   
9.01.005   Loitering; in entrances to public places
   
9.01.006   Seditious language
   
9.01.007   Soliciting by firms rendering assistance to motor vehicles on public
highways
   
9.01.008   (Reserved)
   
9.01.009   (Reserved)
   
9.01.010   (Reserved)
   
9.01.011   Protection of Sheriff’s Office canine units
Article II. Automated Point-of-Sale Stations (Scanners) Inspection and
Registration Certificate
   
9.01.025   Purpose and authority
   
9.01.026   Definitions
   
9.01.027   Scanner registration certificate requirements
   
9.01.028   Violations
   
9.01.029   Penalties
Article III. Youth Protection
   
9.01.050   Purpose and intent
   
9.01.051   Definitions
   
9.01.052   Daytime and nighttime youth protection regulations
   
9.01.053   Exceptions
   
9.01.054   Enforcement
   
9.01.055   Penalty
Article IV. Offenses on Bureau of Land Management Land in San Benito County
   
9.01.060   Offenses on Bureau of Land Management Land
ARTICLE I. IN GENERAL
§ 9.01.001 ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES; DEFINED.
   As used in this chapter, an ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE means and includes alcohol,
spirits, liquor, wine, beer and every liquid or solid containing alcohol,
spirits, wine or beer, and which contains 0.5% or more of alcohol by volume,
and which is fit for beverage purposes either alone or when diluted, mixed or
combined with other substances.
(1966 Code, § 10-1.01) (Ord. 350, § 1)
§ 9.01.002 SAME; CONSUMING IN CERTAIN PUBLIC PLACES; GENERALLY.
   Except as provided in §
9.01.003, no person shall consume an alcoholic beverage in the following
particularly described public areas of the county:
   (A)   The Veterans’ Memorial Park area located east of Memorial Drive, more
particularly described as follows.
      (1)   Parcel one. Beginning at a point in the centerline of the Hillcrest
Road distant thereon south 87 degrees 00' east 18.115 chains from the corner
common to Homestead Lots 26, 27, 34 and 35; thence from such point of beginning
south 2 degrees 21' west 19.627 chains to an iron pipe; thence north 87 degrees
04' west 10.193 chains to an iron pipe; thence north 2 degrees 21' east 19.64
chains to a point in the centerline of the Hillcrest Road; thence along such
centerline south 87 degrees 00' east 10.193 chains to the point of beginning,
containing 20.00 acres more or less.
      (2)   Parcel two. Beginning at a point in the line common to land of
Catherina Renz and Lima, distant along such line north 2 degrees 55' east
835.80 feet from the common corner to such lands in the centerline of the
Sunnyslope Road, being distant along such centerline south 87 degrees 00' east
1187.00 feet from the most southwesterly corner of said Homestead Lot 35;
thence from such point of beginning along the line common to lands of Renz and
Lima north 2 degrees 55' east 965.10 feet to the most northeasterly corner of
land of Catherina Renz; thence along the northerly line of land of Catherina
Renz north 86 degrees 32' west 610.60 feet to the most northwesterly corner
thereof; thence along the westerly line thereof south 2 degrees 55' west 965.10
feet; thence south 86 degrees 32' east 610.60 feet to the point of beginning.
   (B)   The portion of Veterans’ Memorial Park located west of Memorial Drive,
more particularly described as follows: The portion of Parcel 2 described in
division (A) above, consisting of the children’s play equipment area (tot lot)
and the portion of Parcel 2 consisting of a parking lot located immediately
adjacent to, and north of, the tot lot (up to the cyclone fence bordering the
picnic area).
(1966 Code, § 10-1.02) (Ord. 350, § 2; Ord. 654, § 3)
§ 9.01.003 SAME; SAME; PUBLIC EVENTS.
   The Board of Supervisors of the county may waive the provisions of §
9.01.002 when the portions of Veterans’ Memorial Park are to be used for public
events conducted or sponsored by the county, the City of Hollister, a veterans
organization of the county or a non-profit organization located within the
county. The waiver may be granted only at a regular meeting of the Board of
Supervisors and shall apply only to the dates expressed in the waiver.
(1966 Code, § 10-1.03) (Ord. 350, § 3)
§ 9.01.004 ASSEMBLIES AND THE LIKE; NEAR FIRES, EARTHQUAKES, DISASTERS AND THE
LIKE.
   No persons shall gather, collect, assemble or congregate within 1,000 feet
of the scene of any fire, bombing, act of sabotage, accident, explosion, flood,
riot, earthquake or any emergency when any authorized emergency vehicle is
actively engaged thereat.
(1966 Code, § 10-1) (Ord. 174, § 6)
§ 9.01.005 LOITERING; IN ENTRANCES TO PUBLIC PLACES.
   No person shall loiter, stand or sit in or at the entrance of, or approach
to, any church, hall, theater, park or place of public assemblage so as to in
any manner obstruct the entrance or approach.
(1966 Code, § 10-2) (Ord. 155, § 3)
§ 9.01.006 SEDITIOUS LANGUAGE.
   No person shall utter, publish or use any seditious language, words, remarks
or epithets, or address to another any such language, words, epithets, which
create or provoke, or tend to create or provoke, a breach of the peace.
(1966 Code, § 10-3) (Ord. 155, § 1)
§ 9.01.007 SOLICITING BY FIRMS RENDERING ASSISTANCE TO MOTOR VEHICLES ON PUBLIC
HIGHWAYS.
   It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to solicit patronage for
or on behalf of any person, firm or corporation engaged in the business of
rendering assistance to motor vehicles upon or along any public highway within
the county.
(1966 Code, § 10-4) (Ord. 257, § 1)
§ 9.01.008 (RESERVED)
§ 9.01.009 (RESERVED)
§ 9.01.010 (RESERVED)
§ 9.01.011 PROTECTION OF SHERIFF’S OFFICE CANINE UNITS.
   It is unlawful for any person to wilfully or maliciously torture, tease,
torment, beat, kick, strike, mutilate, injure, disable or kill any dog used by
the San Benito County Sheriff’s Office, or in the custody of the department or
its designated handlers while any such dog is in the performance of the
functions or duties of the Sheriff’s Office or to wilfully interfere with any
such dog while it is being used in the performance of any of the functions or
duties of the Department. Any person violating the provisions of this section
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
punished by a fine not exceeding $500 or by imprisonment in the county jail not
to exceed six months, or by both the fine and imprisonment.
(1966 Code, § 10-6) (Ord. 466, § 2)
ARTICLE II. AUTOMATED POINT-OF-SALE STATIONS (SCANNERS) INSPECTION AND
REGISTRATION CERTIFICATE
§ 9.01.025 PURPOSE AND AUTHORITY.
   (A)   It is unlawful to charge, at the time of sale, a price that is more
than the price that is advertised or posted. Pursuant to Cal. Business and
Professions Code §§ 12103.5, 12024.2 and 12024.6, the purpose of this article
is to ensure that the advertised or posted price of a commodity is the price
charged for that commodity. A location shall not be required to sell at a price
incorrectly stated in an advertisement which is incorrect as a result of a
typographical error or other inadvertent misprint and may also correct pricing
errors resulting from the misplacement of merchandise by consumers.
   (B)   This article establishes a system to identify, register and inspect
point-of-sale stations in retail commodity sales. In addition, this article
authorizes penalties for failure to obtain a scanner registration certificate
or for late payment of a scanner registration certificate and failure to make
available a current scanner registration certificate.
(1966 Code, § 10-7.1) (Ord. 777, § 5(part))
§ 9.01.026 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this article, the following words and phrases are
defined and shall be construed as having the following meaning.
   AUTOMATED POINT-OF-SALE STATION. Individual and separate equipment that is
capable of recovering electrically stored price information that is used to
charge consumers for the purchase of commodities. POINT-OF-SALE STATIONS shall
include, but are not limited to, equipment that uses universal product code
scanners, price look-up codes or any other system that relies on the retrieval
of electronically stored information to complete a transaction of commerce
between a retailer and consumer.
   COMMERCIAL PURPOSE. Any sale of a commodity or thing by a person.
   COMMISSIONER’S OFFICE. The Office of the Agricultural Commissioner and
Sealer of Weights and Measures of the County of San Benito.
   COMMODITY. Any article of commerce or anything that is bought or sold.
   LOCATION. Any room, enclosure, building, vehicle, space or area at a single
place on which a single business operates point-of-sale stations.
   PERSON. Any person, firm, corporation, business or association.
   SELL. Barter, exchange, trade, keep for sale, offer for sale or expose for
sale in any of their variant forms.
(1966 Code, § 10-7.2) (Ord. 777, § 5(part))
§ 9.01.027 SCANNER REGISTRATION CERTIFICATE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   It is unlawful for a person to use a point-of-sale station for
commercial purposes without first obtaining a scanner registration certificate
in accordance with the provisions of this article. A separate certificate shall
be required for each location.
   (B)   Scanner registration certificates shall be issued upon written
application on a form furnished by the Commissioner’s office and payment of
fees and late penalties as set forth in §
9.01.029 of this article.
   (C)   At each location, the applicable certificate shall be readily
available to any official of the Commissioner’s office.
      (1)   All certificates shall be valid for up to one year. Renewal of a
certificate shall be made in a manner similar to the issuance of the original
certificate.
      (2)   Certificates shall not be transferable between persons or
locations.
   (D)   A registration certificate holder shall not lease, sublet,
subcontract, or in any manner allow any other person or entity to engage in
activities regulated under the certificate, except as an employee of the
certificate holder.
(1966 Code, § 10-7.3) (Ord. 777, § 5(part))
§ 9.01.028 VIOLATIONS.
   It is unlawful for any person or any employee or agent thereof to use point-
of-sale stations without a current registration certificate.
(1966 Code, § 10-7.4) (Ord. 777, § 5(part))
§ 9.01.029 PENALTIES.
   Penalties for failure to obtain a registration certificate, failure to have
a current registration certificate or failure to make available a current
registration certificate shall be imposed as follows.
   (A)   Unless otherwise provided, any person violating any provisions of this
article shall be guilty of an infraction or misdemeanor, as hereinafter
specified in §
1.01.007 of the this code.
   (B)   In addition to the above penalties, the court may order that the
guilty party reimburse the county for all of its costs of investigating,
analyzing and prosecuting the enforcement action against the guilty party. The
court shall fix the amount of any such reimbursement upon submission of proof
of the costs by the county.
   (C)   In addition to all other remedies provided by this article or state
law, in the event of a continuing violation of the provisions of this article,
the Commissioner’s office may seek injunctive relief to restrain further
violation.
(1966 Code, § 10-7.5) (Ord. 777, § 5(part))
ARTICLE III. YOUTH PROTECTION
§ 9.01.050 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   (A)   The county has a compelling interest in reducing the rate of juvenile
crime and victimization. Minors are particularly vulnerable to violence and to
the pressure to participate in criminal activity due to their limited ability
to make critical decisions in an informed and mature manner. Enactment and
enforcement of a daytime and nighttime juvenile curfew reduces the amount of
juvenile crime and victimization.
   (B)   In addition to reducing the rate of juvenile crime and victimization,
a daytime curfew also serves to promote the county's compelling interest in
prohibiting daytime presence in public places by those subject to compulsory
education. State law requires all persons between the ages of six and 18 to
attend school. Regular school attendance provides important benefits not only
to the students themselves but also to the health, safety, and welfare of all
residents within the county.
   (C)   The community as a whole suffers when a minor student is not attending
school. Truancy also often leads to vandalism, petty theft, daytime burglaries,
and other criminal activity. Truants often tend to loiter in and about public
places. Frequently, persons going about their lawful business as well as public
property become targets of the delinquent behavior of truants when they should
be in school.
   (D)   This article is intended to assist with the policing of public places
in the county during specified daytime and nighttime hours, and the prevention
of crimes by and against minors during those hours. It is not intended to
interfere with or supersede the enforcement of state laws regulating education
or truancy or with local school district's truancy programs. Rather this
article is intended to provide the county with an additional proactive
intervention tool to protect youth and prevent crime.
(Ord. 896, § 1(part))
§ 9.01.051 DEFINITIONS.
   The following definitions shall govern the application and interpretation of
the youth protection regulations set forth in this article.
   DAYTIME CURFEW HOURS. The period of the minor's regular scheduled school
hours when the minor's school is in session.
   EMERGENCY. An unforeseen combination or circumstances or the resulting state
that calls for immediate action. EMERGENCY includes, but is not limited to, a
fire, a natural disaster, an automobile accident, or any situation requiring
immediate action to prevent or protect against serious bodily injury, loss of
life, or loss of property.
   ERRAND. A trip to carry a message or do a definite lawful thing.
   GUARDIAN.
      (1)   A person who, under court order, is the guardian of the person of a
minor;
      (2)   A public or private agency with whom a minor has been placed by a
court; or
      (3)   A person who is at least 18 years of age and authorized by a parent
or guardian to have the care and custody of a minor.
   HOME. The child's legal residence or other place where the minor is
permitted by the parent or guardian to be.
   MINOR. Any person under 18 years of age.
   NIGHTTIME CURFEW HOURS. On Sunday through Thursday nights, nighttime curfew
hours shall be defined as the hours between 10:00 p.m. in the evening until 5:
00 a.m. the following day. On Friday and Saturday nights, nighttime curfew
hours shall be defined as the hours between 11:00 p.m. in the evening until 5:
00 a.m. the following day.
   PARENT. A person who is a natural parent, adoptive parent, or a step-parent
of a minor.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Any place to which the public or a substantial group of the
public has access, including but not limited to, streets, highways, roads,
alleys, trails, sidewalks, parks, recreational areas, public grounds or
buildings, vacant lots or buildings, common areas of a school (except during
regular school hours), office buildings, transport facilities, restaurants,
retail establishments, places of amusement, parking lots, or other unsupervised
places.
   RESPONSIBLE ADULT. A person at least 18 years of age and authorized by a
parent or guardian to have the care and custody of a minor.
(Ord. 896, § 1(part))
§ 9.01.052 DAYTIME AND NIGHTTIME YOUTH PROTECTION REGULATIONS.
   Except as provided in §
9.01.053 below:
   (A)   Nighttime curfew. Every minor who is present in, about, or upon any
public place during nighttime curfew hours is guilty of a violation of this
section.
   (B)   Daytime curfew. Every minor who is subject to compulsory education or
to compulsory continuation education who is not in possession of a valid,
school issued, off-campus permit giving permission to leave campus or not
receiving instruction by a qualified tutor pursuant to Education Code § 48224
or not otherwise exempt from attendance at a public or private full-time day
school as set forth in the California Education Code, who is present in, about,
or on any public place during the daytime curfew hours is guilty of a violation
of this section.
   (C)   It is unlawful for any parent or guardian of a minor knowingly to
permit, or by insufficient control to allow, the minor to be present in any
public place in the County of San Benito during daytime curfew hours or
nighttime curfew hours.
   (D)   Each violation of this section shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 896, § 1(part))
§ 9.01.053 EXCEPTIONS.
   The provisions of §
9.01.052 shall not apply when:
   (A)   The minor is going directly to or coming directly home from a public
meeting, or a place of public entertainment, such as a movie, play, or sporting
event, without any detour or stop. This exception shall apply to nighttime
curfew hours only;
   (B)   The minor is exercising his or her First Amendment rights protected by
the United States or California Constitutions, or is going directly to or
coming directly home from, without any detour or stop, the exercising of those
First Amendment rights. This exception shall apply to nighttime curfew hours
only.
   (C)   The minor is authorized to be absent from his or her school pursuant
to applicable school rules, or under the provisions of the California
Educational Code or any applicable state or federal law. This exception shall
apply to daytime curfew hours only;
   (D)   The minor is receiving home or private school instruction pursuant to
California Education Code § 48222. This exception shall apply to daytime curfew
hours only;
   (E)   The minor is engaged in any employment activity for which the minor is
authorized to participate in, or is going directly to or coming directly home
from such employment activity, without any detour or stop;
   (F)   The minor is accompanied by his or her parent or guardian, or by a
responsible adult;
   (G)   The minor is engaged in an errand directed by his or her parent or
guardian or by a responsible adult;
   (H)   The minor is attending an official school, religions or other
cultural, educational or recreational activity supervised by adults and
sponsored by a local government agency, a civic organization, or another
similar entity or organization that takes responsibility for the minor; and/or
is going directly to and coming directly home from such religious, cultural,
educational or recreational activity without any detour or stop;
   (I)   The minor is responding to or acting pursuant to an emergency;
   (J)   The minor is in a motor vehicle involved in interstate travel;
   (K)   The minor is married, an active member of the United States Military,
or has been emancipated pursuant to law;
   (L)   The minor is going to or coming directly home from, without any
detours or stops, a school-approved or school related business, trade,
profession, occupation or program in which the minor is lawfully engaged, such
as a work study or work experience program, subject to verification by a proper
school authority;
   (M)   The minor is going directly to or coming directly home from an event
or activity that is directly related to any medical condition of a parent,
guardian, or spouse, without any detours or stops; or,
   (N)   The minor is traveling from an activity listed in this section to
another activity listed in this section, without any detour or stop.
(Ord. 896, § 1(part))
§ 9.01.054 ENFORCEMENT.
   A law enforcement officer, upon reasonable cause or suspicion based on
articulable facts that an individual is in violation of the youth protection
regulations, may detain that individual, ascertain whether the individual is a
minor, and if so, determine if the minor has a legitimate reason based on the
exceptions detailed in §
9.01.053 for being in apparent violation of the youth protection regulations
set forth in this article.
(Ord. 896, § 1(part))
§ 9.01.055 PENALTY.
   (A)   Penalties for minors.
      (1)   Upon the first violation of §
9.01.052, the law enforcement officer may issue a citation to the minor. Upon
the issuance of the first citation, the law enforcement agency, acting through
its designated representative, shall mail to the parent(s) or legal guardian(s)
of the minor a notification that the minor has been found in violation of the
youth protection regulations, and that any subsequent violation of §
9.01.052 may result in the parent(s) or legal guardian(s) being held liable for
actual administrative and transportation costs. This notice shall require the
parent(s) or legal guardian(s) to sign and return the notification and, if
appropriate, to explain in writing on space provided on the notification, any
circumstances relevant to any applicable exception from §
9.01.052 as well as any circumstances relevant to an applicable exception from
the fee as provided by subdivision (e) of Welfare & Institutions Code § 625.5.
This notice shall also state that any subsequent violation may result in the
issuance of an infraction citation to the minor and/or the parent(s) or legal
guardian(s).
      (2)   Upon any subsequent violation of §
9.01.052, a minor may be charged with an infraction, a conviction of which
shall be punished as allowed by law, including applicable juvenile court law
and procedure.
   (B)   Penalties for adults. Upon a violation of §
9.01.052(C), the parent(s) or guardian(s) of the minor may be charged with an
infraction, a conviction of which shall be punished by:
      (1)   A fine not exceeding $100 for the first infraction violation;
      (2)   A fine not exceeding $200 for the second infraction violation
within the same 12 month period; or
      (3)   A fine not exceeding $500 for the third, or each subsequent,
infraction violation within the same 12 month period.
   (C)   Additional provisions.
      (1)   This section shall not be construed to abridge the authority of a
law enforcement officer to assume temporary custody, during school hours, of
any minor subject to compulsory full time education or compulsory continuing
education found away from his or her home and who is absent from the school
without a valid excuse, and return such minor to their school of registration,
pursuant to California Education Code §§ 48264 and 48265, nor construed to
abridge the authority of a law enforcement officer to otherwise detain or take
into custody a minor as otherwise allowed by law. This section shall not be
construed to limit the authority of the court to render any disposition
authorized by Welfare and Institutions Code Section 258, subdivision (a), or
any other provision of the Juvenile Court Law.
      (2)   Upon the adoption of a resolution authorized by § 625.5 of the
California Welfare & Institutions Code, the city or county may charge a fee for
the actual costs of administrative and transportation services for the return
of the minor to his or her place of residence, or to the custody of his or her
parent(s) or legal guardian(s). This fee may be charged jointly or severally to
the minor, his or her parent(s), or legal guardian(s), in an amount not to
exceed those actual costs. Upon petition of the person required to pay the fee,
the county, acting through the County Administrative Officer, or his or her
designee, shall conduct a hearing as to the validity of the fees charged, and
may waive payment of the fee by the minor, his or her parent(s), or legal
guardian(s), upon a finding of good cause. The county may (1) provide for
waiver of the payment of the fee by the parent(s) or legal guardian(s) upon a
determination that the person has made reasonable efforts to exercise
supervision and control over the minor, (2) provide for a determination of the
ability to pay the fee and provide that the fee may be waived if neither the
minor nor the parent(s) or legal guardian(s) have the ability to pay the fee,
(3) provide for the performance of community service in lieu of imposition of
the fee, and (4) provide for waiver of the payment of the fee by the parent(s)
or legal guardian(s) upon a determination that the parent(s) or legal guardian
(s) have limited physical or legal custody and control of the minor.
(Ord. 896, § 1(part))
ARTICLE IV. OFFENSES ON BUREAU OF LAND MANAGEMENT LAND IN SAN BENITO COUNTY
§ 9.01.060 OFFENSES ON BUREAU OF LAND MANAGEMENT LAND.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purposes of this article, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      AUTHORIZED OFFICER. Any employee of the Bureau of Land Management to whom
has been delegated the authority to perform the duties described in this
division.
      PUBLIC LANDS. Any lands and interest in lands owned by the United States
within San Benito County, and administered by the Secretary of the Interior
through the Bureau of Land Management, without regard to how the United States
acquired ownership, except any land held for the benefit of Indians;
   (B)   Unlawful acts. Unless permitted in writing by the Authorized Officer,
it is prohibited on the public lands to:
      (1)   Resist or interfere with the efforts of firefighter(s) to
extinguish a fire;
      (2)   Enter an area which is closed by a fire prevention order; or
      (3)   Perform any act restricted by a fire prevention order.
   (C)   A violation of this section is a "wobblette", in that any person
violating this section may be cited or charged with either a misdemeanor or an
infraction. Criminal fines shall not exceed $1,000 for a misdemeanor, or $250
for an infraction, in addition to any court imposed fees and assessments.
   (D)   A violation of this section may also be enforced through the issuance
of administrative citations as set forth in the San Benito County Code.
   (E)   Any violation of this section may be enforced by a federal or state
law enforcement or peace officer, as well as any county enforcing officers.
(Ord. 1,023, § 2; Ord. 1,026, § 2)
CHAPTER 9.03: FALSE ALARMS
Section
   
9.03.001   Purpose
   
9.03.002   Definitions
   
9.03.003   Alarm business registration
   
9.03.004   Alarm agent registration required
   
9.03.005   Notification of change
   
9.03.006   Alarm agents: registration in possession
   
9.03.007   Alarm user’s permit
   
9.03.008   Correction of information
   
9.03.009   Alarm system standards
   
9.03.010   Alarm system regulations
   
9.03.011   False alarm cost
   
9.03.012   Right to discontinue response
   
9.03.013   Suspension/revocation of permits
   
9.03.014   Appeals
   
9.03.015   Confidentiality
   
9.03.016   Penalties
§ 9.03.001 PURPOSE.
   The Board of Supervisors of the county hereby finds and determines that the
regulation of false alarms is necessary to promote public health, welfare and
safety as well as to necessarily reduce the waste of manpower and tax dollars
in response to false alarms. The public is using alarm systems which either are
not properly operated by their users or which mechanically malfunction
resulting in an increase in false alarm reports thereby constituting a hazard
to the safety of peace officers and the public in general.
(1966 Code, § 20-1) (Ord. 568, § 1(part))
§ 9.03.002 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply.
   ALARM AGENT. Any person who is self-employed or employed either directly or
indirectly by an alarm business whose duties include any of the functions
within the leasing, servicing, repairing, altering, replacing, moving or
installing an alarm system in or on any building, place or premises.
   ALARM BUSINESS. Any person, firm or corporation engaged in the business of
selling, leasing, maintaining, servicing, repairing, altering, replacing,
moving, removing, installing or monitoring an alarm system in or on any
building, place or premises. This chapter specifically excludes retail
establishments which sell, as part of their products, components for alarm
systems; but which do not offer service, maintenance, repair, alteration,
replacement, moving or installation of systems in or on any business, place or
premises.
   ALARM SYSTEM. Any device, whether known as a burglary, robbery or intrusion
alarm, direct dial telephone service, silent or audible alarm or by any other
name, which is used for the detection of an unauthorized entry into a building,
structure or facility, or to signal the commission of an unlawful act or both,
and when activated emits a sound or transmits a signal to indicate that an
emergency situation exists, and to which police are expected to respond.
   ALARM USER. Any person using an alarm system at his or her place of
residence or business, whether it be owned, leased or rented and made available
for use by his or her agents, employees, representatives or family.
   AUDIBLE ALARM. A device designed for the detection of an unauthorized entry
on or attempted entry into a premises or structure or for alerting others of
the commission of an unlawful act or both; and which when activated, generates
an audible sound on the premises.
   BUSINESS. Any premises that qualify under non-residential use.
   DIRECT DIAL TELEPHONE SERVICE (AUTOMATIC DIALING DEVICE). Any device which
is connected to a voice grade telephone line and is programmed to select a
predetermined telephone number and transmit, by prerecorded message or code
signal, an emergency message indicating a need for emergency procedures.
   FALSE ALARM. An alarm signal activated by causes other than the commission
or attempted commission of an unlawful act which the alarm system is designed
to detect. An alarm signal activated by violent conditions of nature or other
extraordinary circumstances not subject to the control of the alarm user shall
not constitute a FALSE ALARM.
   PERSON. Any individual, partnership, corporation or entity.
   RESIDENTIAL. Any premises used as dwelling units and includes apartments and
lodging houses.
   SILENT ALARM. A device designed for the detection of the unauthorized entry
on or attempted entry into a premises or structure and for alerting others of
the commission of an unlawful act or both, and when activated, transmits a
signal or activates a device at a predesignated place other than the location
where the alarm has been installed.
(1966 Code, § 20-2) (Ord. 568, § 1(part))
§ 9.03.003 ALARM BUSINESS REGISTRATION.
   It is unlawful for any person, including the owners of an alarm business, to
act as an alarm agent with the unincorporated areas of the county without first
having registered with the Sheriff’s Department; provided, however, that
registration shall not be required with the Sheriff’s Department; provided,
however, that registration shall not be required for any business which only
sells or leases the alarm systems from a fixed location unless the business
services, installs, monitors or responds to an alarm system at the protected
premises. Registration shall be accomplished by furnishing such information as
may be required by the Sheriff’s Department, including, but not limited to the
full name of the business, and the name and business address of the manager of
operations for the area which includes the unincorporated areas of the county
and the number of the license issued by the state’s Director of Consumer
Affairs for the alarm business, pursuant to Cal. Business and Professions Code
§ 7593.8.
(1966 Code, § 20-3) (Ord. 568, § 1(part))
§ 9.03.004 ALARM AGENT REGISTRATION REQUIRED.
   It is unlawful for any person, including the owners of an alarm business, to
act as an alarm agent within the unincorporated areas of the county without
first having registered his or her name filed with the Sheriff’s Office a copy
of the alarm agent registration card issued to him or her by the state’s
Director of Consumer Affairs, pursuant to the provisions of Cal. Business and
Professions Code § 7593.7. However, nothing herein shall require a person to
register if the person is merely a salesperson for any business not required to
register under the provision of §
9.03.003 and if the salesperson does not engage in any other activities related
to alarm systems apart from selling. Further, nothing herein shall require a
person to register in order to install, service, repair, alter or move an alarm
system on the premises owned or occupied by the person.
(1966 Code, § 20-4) (Ord. 568, § 1(part))
§ 9.03.005 NOTIFICATION OF CHANGE.
   Any alarm business or alarm agent registered with the Sheriff’s Department
shall report, within five working days, to the Sheriff any change of address,
ownership, name of business or location of business.
(1966 Code, § 20-5) (Ord. 568, § 1(part))
§ 9.03.006 ALARM AGENTS: REGISTRATION IN POSSESSION.
   Every person acting as an alarm agent within the county shall carry on his
or her person, at all times so engaged, a valid state of California alarm
agent’s registration card and shall display the card upon request to any peace
officer.
(1966 Code, § 20-6) (Ord. 568, § 1(part))
§ 9.03.007 ALARM USER’S PERMIT.
   (A)   No person shall install or cause to be installed, use or maintain or
possess an alarm system at any residence or on any business premises owned or
in the possession or control of the person within the unincorporated area of
San Benito County without having obtained an alarm user’s permit from the
Sheriff’s Department. The application for an alarm user’s permit shall be filed
with the Sheriff. The Sheriff shall prescribe the form of the application and
request such information as is necessary to evaluate and act upon the permit
application. The application shall include the address of the premises where
the system is or shall be located and the name, address and telephone number of
the applicant, and the person who will render service or repairs during any
hour of the day or night. The application shall also include a statement that
the applicant has posted the house number of the premises at the street or
roadway next to the driveway of the premises. For those alarm systems already
in existence on the date of this chapter, permits shall be obtained within 90
days of the effective date of this chapter.
   (B)   Every application for an alarm user’s permit shall be accompanied by a
fee which shall be fixed, from time to time, by the Board of Supervisors by
ordinance.
   (C)   A permit shall be denied by the Sheriff if the alarm system does not
comply with this section or the standards adopted under §
9.03.009.
(1966 Code, § 20-7) (Ord. 568, § 1(part))
§ 9.03.008 CORRECTION OF INFORMATION.
   Whenever any changes occur relating to the written information required
pursuant to §
9.03.007, the permit holder, shall within five working days, give written
notice of the change to the Sheriff’s Department.
(1966 Code, § 20-8) (Ord. 568, § 1(part))
§ 9.03.009 ALARM SYSTEM STANDARDS.
   All alarm systems and appurtenant equipment installed on any premises shall
meet or exceed those standards which may hereafter be established by resolution
of the Board of Supervisors of the county. Subject to all applicable laws,
including, but not limited to Cal. Code of Civil Procedure §§ 1822.50 et seq.,
the county reserves the right to inspect all alarm systems.
(1966 Code, § 20-9) (Ord. 568, § 1(part))
§ 9.03.010 ALARM SYSTEM REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Automatic deactivation; audible alarms. Audible residential alarms
shall be equipped with an automatic shut-off mechanism capable of terminating
the audible annunciator after activation within a maximum of 15 minutes.
Audible commercial alarm systems shall be equipped with an automatic shut-off
mechanism capable of terminating the audible annunciator with a maximum of 30
minutes. Those audible alarms installed prior to the effective date of this
chapter will have 90 days to comply with annunciator shut-off requirements in
accordance with this chapter.
   (B)   Maintenance notification. The alarm user shall notify the county’s
Communications Center Supervisor prior to any service, test, repair,
maintenance, alteration or installation of an alarm system which might produce
a false alarm. Any alarm activated where the prior notice has been given shall
not constitute a false alarm. Testing shall be held to the minimum required to
ensure proper operation of systems.
   (C)   Power supply. Any alarm system which is subject to activation upon
failure or interruption of normal electricity shall be equipped with an
uninterruptible standby power supply. The power supply must be capable of at
least four hours of operation.
   (D)   Repairs. When any false alarm caused by a malfunction of an alarm
system has occurred, the alarm user shall cause the alarm system to be repaired
to eliminate the malfunction. The alarm system annunciator or alarm panel
termination shall be disconnected while repairs are made. Upon request by the
Sheriff, the alarm user shall provide a written report describing the actions
taken or to be taken to eliminate the cause of the false alarm(s). This report
shall be submitted within ten days of the date of request by the Sheriff.
   (E)   Panel alarm connections to County Communications Center. Person(s)
seeking alarm connections directly into the county’s Communications Center must
first obtain the permission of the county’s Communications Department.
   (F)   Panic alarms. After the effective date of this chapter, no person
shall install a panic alarm system for the purpose of contacting and summoning
responses or emergency responses from Sheriff’s units. A panic alarm system is
one which is manually activated and is designed to notify others of an
emergency, but which does not identify what type of emergency information
exists. The Sheriff’s Department shall have the right to refuse to respond to
panic alarms. The purpose of this subchapter is to encourage the public to
utilize the 9-1-1 Enhanced Emergency telephone system for reporting emergencies
rather than using panic alarm systems.
(1966 Code, § 20-10) (Ord. 568, § 1(part))
§ 9.03.011 FALSE ALARM COST.
   (A)   When any emergency alarms, messages, signals or notices are received
by the Sheriff’s Department showing that an alarm user has failed to meet any
of the requirements of this chapter, the Sheriff’s Department is authorized to
demand that the user of that alarm system disconnect the system until it is
made to comply with the requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   Any person having an alarm system which results in response by
Sheriff’s Deputies in which the alarm proves to be false, shall be cited and
pay to the county, a fee for the costs of response as follows:
      (1)   If, during any three-month period, false alarms exceed one in
number; an assessment shall be paid by the alarm user to the county, which
assessment shall be fixed from time to time by the Board of Supervisors by
ordinance.
      (2)   More than three alarms during a 12-month period from any alarm
system for which an alarm user permit has obtained shall constitute grounds for
revocation of the permit.
      (3)   For a period of six months following the installation of a new
alarm system, there shall be no cost assessment of costs for the first through
third false alarms. Fourth and subsequent false alarms during the initial six-
month period shall be subject to cost assessments.
   (C)   An alarm business or alarm agent registered with the Sheriff’s
Department shall not call the alarm use or customer in advance of the arrival
of the responding Sheriff unit to an activated alarm, until such time as the
responding unit clears the call. Any confirmation by telephone shall be made
only by the user directly to the Sheriff’s Department, Communications Center or
by the Communications Department Dispatcher at the direction of the Sheriff’s
units. A dispatch to an activated alarm shall constitute a response to that
alarm regardless of whether the alarm company or alarm agent has called the
Sheriff’s Department or the Communications Center to cancel the alarm. Any
alarm company or alarm agent who violates the provisions hereof either by
calling the alarm user, Sheriff’s Department or communications center prior to
the arrival and clearing call of the responding unit, shall be liable for $150
cost assessment for each such violation.
(1966 Code, § 20-11) (Ord. 568, § 1(part))
§ 9.03.012 RIGHT TO DISCONTINUE RESPONSE.
   (A)   The Sheriff’s Department may refuse to respond to any location of an
alarm where:
      (1)   No permit has been obtained;
      (2)   An alarm user’s permit has been suspended or revoked;
      (3)   For violation of any provisions of this chapter; or
      (4)   For any reason pursuant to law.
   (B)   Non-response to an alarm location shall continue until a permit has
been obtained, an alarm user’s permit has been reinstated or violation of the
provisions of this chapter corrected or eliminated and, if required by the
Sheriff’s Department, written documents of the correction or elimination
submitted to the Sheriff’s Department.
(1966 Code, § 20-12) (Ord. 568, § 1(part))
§ 9.03.013 SUSPENSION/REVOCATION OF PERMITS.
   (A)   The violation of any provisions of this chapter by the holder of an
alarm user’s permit shall constitute grounds for the suspension or revocation
of the permit by the Sheriff’s Department. If an alarm user’s permit is to be
suspended or revoked, the Sheriff’s Department shall give written notification
to the permit holder at least 72 hours before the effective hour of the
suspension or revocation.
   (B)   An alarm user’s permit may be suspended or revoked by the Sheriff’s
Department if:
      (1)   The alarm user has failed to pay any costs assessment;
      (2)   The alarm user has had six penalty assessments in any one-year
period; or
      (3)   Any person responsible for maintaining or servicing an alarm system
refused to respond to the scene and/or reset any alarm.
   (C)   An alarm user whose permit has been suspended or revoked is not
precluded from applying for reinstatement of the permit or for a new permit.
The Sheriff’s Department is not required to reinstate a permit or issue a new
permit unless satisfied that the alarm user’s system has been properly serviced
and any deficiencies corrected. The Sheriff’s Department may impose reasonable
restrictions and conditions on the reissuance of a permit or the issuance of a
new permit to an alarm user with respect to the particular system for which the
permit was suspended or revoked.
(1966 Code, § 20-13) (Ord. 568, § 1(part))
§ 9.03.014 APPEALS.
   Any person whose permit has been denied, suspended or revoked by the
Sheriff’s Department or who has been cited for costs assessment may appeal the
decision to the Board of Supervisors by filing a written notice of appeal with
the Clerk of the Board within ten days of the date of notice of denial,
suspension or revocation, the Clerk shall place the matter on the agenda for
consideration by the Board of Supervisors following the date of receipt of the
notice of appeal. The Board of Supervisors shall consider the appeal at the
meeting and shall affirm, modify or reverse the decision of the Sheriff’s
Department. The decision of the San Benito County Board of Supervisors shall be
final and conclusive.
(1966 Code, § 20-14) (Ord. 568, § 1(part))
§ 9.03.015 CONFIDENTIALITY.
   Unless otherwise required by law, information furnished and secured pursuant
to this chapter shall be confidential in character and shall not be subject to
public inspection and shall be kept so that the contents thereof shall not be
known except to persons charged with the administration of this chapter.
(1966 Code, § 20-15) (Ord. 568, § 1(part))
§ 9.03.016 PENALTIES.
   (A)   General. Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
punished as provided in
Chapter 1.03 of this code.
   (B)   Violation of chapter; public nuisance. Any violation of this chapter
is unlawful and a public nuisance and shall be abated, eliminated and enjoined
as provided in
Chapter 1.03 of this code.
   (C)   Remedies cumulative. Except as otherwise provided by law, the remedies
provided in this chapter are cumulative and not exclusive. Nothing in this
chapter is intended, or shall be deemed or construed, to limit or impair the
ability of the county, or any of its officers, agents or employees, to take any
administrative or judicial action, otherwise authorized by law, to abate any
public nuisance.
Chapter 1.03 of this code is hereby incorporated by reference as though its
provisions were fully set forth herein.
(1966 Code, § 20-16) (Ord. 568, § 1(part); Ord. 570, § 4(part))
CHAPTER 9.04: SAN BENITO RIVER REGULATIONS
Section
   
9.04.001   Definitions
   
9.04.002   Prohibition; encampment on private property
   
9.04.003   Prohibition; encampment on public property in the San Benito River
   
9.04.004   Storage of personal property in the San Benito River Area
   
9.04.005   Enforcement
§ 9.04.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CAMP. To pitch or occupy camp facilities, or to use camp paraphernalia, for
living purposes in an outdoor area.
   CAMP FACILITIES. Include, but are not limited to tents, huts, tarpaulin
shelters, unapproved shacks, or temporary shelters.
   CAMP PARAPHERNALIA. Includes, but is not limited to tents or tent-like
structures, cots, beds, sleeping pads, hammocks, or personal cooking facilities
and similar equipment.
   PERSONAL EFFECTS. For the purposes of §
9.04.004, personal property consisting of the following items:
      (1)   Medication, medical devices, eyeglasses, or other prescription
lenses;
      (2)   Sleeping bag or bed roll which is sanitary and non-verminous;
      (3)   Tents in usable and reasonably good condition;
      (4)   Clothes stored in a manner protecting them from the elements, which
are not unsanitary, soiled, or verminous.
      (5)   Non-perishable food items; and
      (6)   Personal property with an estimated individual fair market value of
at least $50.
   SAN BENITO RIVER or the SAN BENITO RIVER AREA. All portions of the San
Benito River, as shown on United States Geological Survey Quadrangle Maps,
located in the unincorporated County of San Benito which is designated as a
100-year flood zone by the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA). The
precise boundaries are depicted on the San Benito County's Geographic
Information System (GIS), available at https://cosb.maps.arcgis.com/home/
index.html.
   STORE. To put aside or accumulate for use when needed, to place for
safekeeping, or to put, place, or leave in a particular place, whether attended
or unattended.
(Ord. 1,025, § 2)
§ 9.04.002 PROHIBITION; ENCAMPMENT ON PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   It is unlawful for any person to camp in or on any occupied or unoccupied
private property without the express written permission of the owner or person
in current lawful possession of the property.
(Ord. 1,025, § 2)
§ 9.04.003 PROHIBITION; ENCAMPMENT ON PUBLIC PROPERTY IN THE SAN BENITO RIVER.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for anyone to camp, sleep, shelter, or reside on
any public property in the San Benito River.
   (B)   No person shall have any fire or campfire, propane, gasoline or
kerosene stove on public property in the San Benito River, except as otherwise
allowed by this Code or by license or permit, or in an area designated for such
purposes by the county.
(Ord. 1,025, § 2; Ord. 1069, § 2, 2024)
§ 9.04.004 STORAGE OF PERSONAL PROPERTY IN THE SAN BENITO RIVER AREA.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to store personal property, including
camp facilities and camp paraphernalia in the San Benito River, except:
   (A)   As otherwise provided by the Board of Supervisors;
   (B)   Pursuant to a valid license or permit; or
   (C)   With the express written permission of the property owner if the
personal property is stored on private property in the San Benito River Area.
Nothing herein shall be construed to allow storage where otherwise prohibited
by this code.
(Ord. 1,025, § 2)
§ 9.04.005 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Violation of the San Benito River Regulations shall be deemed a public
nuisance, and a misdemeanor subject to criminal or civil enforcement, including
administrative citations, in accordance with San Benito County Code.
   (B)   Before issuing a citation or making an arrest to enforce §
9.04.003(A), an officer charged with its enforcement who observes a violation
must:
      (1)   Notify the person engaged in the prohibited conduct that he or she
is in violation;
      (2)   Inform the person that resources are available through the Homeless
Outreach Coordinator; and
   (C)   It is an affirmative defense to a prosecution under this section that
any person so notified as described in division (B)(1) promptly ceased to
engage in the prohibited conduct following such notification.
(Ord. 1,025, § 2; Ord. 1069, §§ 3, 4, 2024)
TITLE 11: PUBLIC HEALTH AND SAFETY
   Chapter
      
11.01.   EMERGENCY SERVICES
      
11.03.   EMERGENCY ALARM SYSTEMS
      
11.05.   FIREWORKS
      
11.07.   HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES
      
11.09.   AMBULANCE SERVICE
      
11.11.   FIRST 5 SAN BENITO
      
11.12.   STANDARDS FOR BODY ART AND PIERCING
      
11.15.   PERSONAL CULTIVATION OF CANNABIS
      
11.17.   SANTA CRUZ-MONTEREY- MERCED-SAN BENITO-MARIPOSA MANAGED MEDICAL CARE
COMMISSION
      
11.18.   BAN ON THE USE OF CERTAIN AREAS OF PUBLIC RIGHTS-OF-WAY AS SLEEPING OR
LIVING ACCOMMODATIONS
CHAPTER 11.01: EMERGENCY SERVICES
Section
   
11.01.001   Purposes
   
11.01.002   Definitions
   
11.01.003   Disaster Council membership
   
11.01.004   Disaster Council powers and duties
   
11.01.005   Director and Deputy Director of Emergency Services
   
11.01.006   Powers and duties of the Director and Assistant Director of
Emergency Services
   
11.01.007   Operational area
   
11.01.008   Operational area emergency management plan
   
11.01.009   Expenditures
   
11.01.010   Punishment of violations
Editor’s note:
   Ord. 340, as amended by Ord. 483, was formerly set out as Chapter 6, Civil
Emergencies. Ord. 340, § 11, repealed county’s Civil Defense Ord. 171, set out
as the original Chapter 6, Civil Defense and Disaster. Ord. 495 repealed Ords.
340 and 483. Ord. 711 repealed Ord. 495. Ord. 898 repealed Ord. 711.
§ 11.01.001 PURPOSES.
   The declared purposes of this chapter are to provide for the preparation and
carrying out of plans for the protection of persons and property within this
county in the event of an emergency, the direction of the emergency
organization, and the coordination of the emergency functions of this county
with all other jurisdictions, special districts, public agencies, corporations,
organizations and affected private persons.
(1966 Code, § 6-1) (Ord. 898, § 1, 2012)
§ 11.01.002 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   EMERGENCY. The actual or threatened existence of conditions of disaster or
extreme peril to the safety of persons and property within this county caused
by such conditions as air pollution, fire, flood, storm, epidemic, riot,
earthquake or other conditions, including conditions resulting from war or
imminent threat of war, but other than conditions resulting from a labor
controversy, which conditions are, or are likely to be, beyond the control of
the services, personnel, equipment and facilities of this county, requiring the
combined forces of other political subdivisions to combat.
   STANDARDIZED EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT SYSTEM (SEMS). As defined in Cal. Gov’t
Code § 8607, SEMS will be used to coordinate multiple jurisdictions or multiple
agencies in a single operational area.
   NATIONAL INCIDENT MANAGEMENT SYSTEM (NIMS). San Benito County recognizes and
has adopted NIMS as its standardized flexible framework for incident
management. NIMS is applicable for incident management at all jurisdictional
levels and across the full spectrum of potential  incidents, regardless of
cause, size, location, or complexity.
(1966 Code, § 6-2) (Ord. 898, § 2, 2012; Ord. 933, § 2, 2015)
§ 11.01.003 DISASTER COUNCIL MEMBERSHIP.
   Cal. Gov’t Code § 8610 authorizes counties, cities and counties, and cities
to create disaster councils by ordinance. Therefore, the County of San Benito
Disaster Council is hereby created and shall consist of the following members:
   (A)   The following individuals or designee:
      (1)   The County Director of Emergency Services;
      (2)   The County Deputy Director of Emergency Services, who shall be
Chairperson;
      (3)   The County Emergency Services Specialist, who shall be Vice-
Chairperson;
      (4)   The County Sheriff;
      (5)   The County Health Officer;
      (6)   The County Emergency Medical Services Manager;
      (7)   The County Director of Public Works;
      (8)   The County Director of Health and Human Services;
      (9)   The County Fire Chief;
      (10)   Such representatives of civic, business, labor, veterans,
professional, or other organizations having an official emergency
responsibility, as may be appointed by the Director with the advice and consent
of the governing body.
(1966 Code, § 6-3) (Ord. 898, § 3, 2012; Ord. 933, § 3, 2015)
§ 11.01.004 DISASTER COUNCIL POWERS AND DUTIES.
   It shall be the duty of the County of San Benito Disaster Council, and it is
hereby empowered, to develop and recommend for adoption by the Board of
Supervisors emergency and mutual aid plans and agreements and such ordinances
and resolutions and rules and regulations as are necessary to implement the
plans and agreements. The Disaster Council shall meet upon call of the
Chairperson or, in his or her absence from the county or inability to call the
meeting, upon call of the Vice-Chairperson or as otherwise directed by the
County of San Benito Disaster Council bylaws.
(1966 Code, § 6-4) (Ord. 898, § 4, 2012)
§ 11.01.005 DIRECTOR AND DEPUTY DIRECTOR OF EMERGENCY SERVICES.
   (A)   There is hereby created the office of Director of Emergency Services.
The County Administrative Officer shall be the Director of Emergency Services.
   (B)   There is hereby created the office of Deputy Director of Emergency
Services. The Deputy Director, under the authority of the Director, shall have
the responsibility of managing the day to day administrative and operational
activities associated with the management of the County Emergency Management
Program as defined within this chapter or as stipulated by the Director. This
position is filled by the Emergency Services Manager of the San Benito County
Office of Emergency Services.
(Ord. 914, § 1, 2013; Ord. 933, § 4, 2015)
§ 11.01.006 POWERS AND DUTIES OF THE DIRECTOR AND ASSISTANT DIRECTOR OF
EMERGENCY SERVICES.
   (A)   The Director is hereby empowered to:
      (1)   Request the Board of Supervisors to proclaim the existence, or
threatened existence, of a “local emergency” if the Board of Supervisors is in
session or to issue the proclamation if the Board of Supervisors is not in
session. Whenever a local emergency is proclaimed by the Director, the Board of
Supervisors shall take action to ratify the proclamation within seven days
thereafter or the proclamation shall have no further force or effect;
      (2)   Recommend that the Chairperson of the Board of Supervisors request
the Governor to proclaim a “state of emergency” when, in the opinion of the
Director, the locally available resources are inadequate to cope with the
emergency;
      (3)   Control and direct the effort of the emergency organization of this
county for the accomplishment of the purposes of this chapter;
      (4)   Direct cooperation between and coordination of services and staff
of the emergency organization of this county to include the operational area
and resolve questions of authority and responsibility that may arise between
them;
      (5)   Represent this county in all dealings with public or private
agencies on matters pertaining to emergencies, as defined herein; and
      (6)   In the event of the proclamation of a “local emergency,” as herein
provided, the proclamation of a “state of emergency” by the Governor or the
Director of the state’s Office of Emergency Services, or the existence of a
“state of war emergency”, the Director is hereby empowered:
         (a)   To make and issue rules and regulations on matters reasonably
related to the protection of life and property as affected by the emergency;
provided, however, the rules and regulations must be confirmed at the earliest
practicable time by the Board of Supervisors;
         (b)   To obtain vital supplies, equipment and such other properties
found lacking and needed for the protection of life and property and to bind
the county for the fair value thereof and, if required immediately, to
commandeer the same for public use;
         (c)   To require emergency services of any county officer or employee
and, in the event of the proclamation of a “state of emergency” in the county
or the existence of a “state of war emergency,” to command the aid of as many
citizens of this county as he or she deems necessary in the execution of his or
her duties. The person shall be entitled to all privileges, benefits and
immunities as are provided by state law for registered disaster service
workers;
         (d)   To requisition necessary personnel or material of any county
department or agency; and
         (e)   To execute all of the special powers conferred upon him or her
by this chapter or by resolution or emergency plan pursuant hereto adopted by
the Board of Supervisors, all powers conferred upon him or her by any statute,
by any agreement approved by the Board of Supervisors and by any other lawful
authority.
   (B)   The Director of Emergency Services shall designate the order of
succession to that office, to take effect in the event the Director is
unavailable to attend meetings and otherwise perform his or her duties during
an emergency. The order of succession shall be approved by the Board of
Supervisors.
   (C)   The Assistant Director shall, under the supervision of the Director,
develop emergency plans and manage the emergency programs of this county and
shall have such other powers and duties as may be assigned by the Director.
(1966 Code, § 6-6) (Ord. 898, § 5, 2012; Ord. 914, § 2, 2013)
§ 11.01.007 OPERATIONAL AREA.
   (A)   The county operational area will consist of county government, cities,
special districts and private agencies having emergency management or public
safety related response functions.
   (B)   All entities will operate as an operational area for emergency
response purposes as prescribed by Cal. Gov’t Code § 8559.
(1966 Code, § 6-7) (Ord. 898, § 6, 2012)
§ 11.01.008 OPERATIONAL AREA EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT PLAN.
   The County of San Benito Disaster Council shall be responsible for the
development of the County of San Benito Operational Area Emergency Management
Plan. The Emergency Management Plan shall provide for the effective
mobilization and management of all of the resources of this county, both public
and private, to meet any condition constituting a local emergency, state of
emergency or state of war emergency, and shall provide for the organization,
powers and duties, services and staff of the emergency organization. The plan
shall take effect upon adoption by resolution of the Board of Supervisors.
(1966 Code, § 6-8) (Ord. 898, § 7, 2012)
§ 11.01.009 EXPENDITURES.
   Any expenditure made in connection with emergency activities, including
mutual aid activities, shall be deemed conclusively to be for the direct
protection and benefit of the inhabitants and property of the County of San
Benito.
(1966 Code, § 6-9) (Ord. 898, § 8, 2012)
§ 11.01.010 PUNISHMENT OF VIOLATIONS.
   It shall be a misdemeanor, punishable by a fine not to exceed $1,000, or by
imprisonment in the county jail not to exceed six months, or both, for any
person, during a state of war emergency, state of emergency or local emergency,
to:
   (A)   Willfully obstruct, hinder or delay any member of the emergency
organization in the enforcement of any lawful rule or regulation issued
pursuant to this chapter or in the performance of any duty imposed upon him or
her by virtue of this chapter;
   (B)   Do any act forbidden by any lawful rule or regulation issued pursuant
to this chapter, if the act is of such a nature as to give or be likely to give
assistance to the enemy, to imperil the lives or property of inhabitants of
this county or to prevent, hinder or delay the defense or protection thereof;
and/or
   (C)   Wear, carry or display, without authority, any means of identification
specified by the emergency agency of the state.
(1966 Code, § 6-10) (Ord. 898, § 9, 2012)
CHAPTER 11.03: EMERGENCY ALARM SYSTEMS
Section
   
11.03.001   Certain alarm systems prohibited
   
11.03.002   Application for sale and the like; requirements for approval
   
11.03.003   Monitoring panels, receiving devices and the like restricted
   
11.03.004   Installation and maintenance costs
   
11.03.005   Removal of unlawful equipment
§ 11.03.001 CERTAIN ALARM SYSTEMS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to use or cause to be used any telephone
device or telephone attachment that automatically selects a public primary
telephone trunk line of the county and then reproduces any prerecorded message
to report any burglary or other emergency.
(1966 Code, § 6B-1) (Ord. 316, § 1)
§ 11.03.002 APPLICATION FOR SALE AND THE LIKE; REQUIREMENTS FOR APPROVAL.
   (A)   Any person in the business of selling or leasing alarm systems who
desires to have the alarm system terminated in any county building shall submit
an application for the privilege, in writing, to the Sheriff of the county. The
application shall contain specific provisions relating to false alarms and
testing procedures.
   (B)   The Sheriff or his or her designated representative shall approve the
application if he or she finds that:
      (1)   Prerecorded alarm messages shall terminate on a private secondary
telephone line;
      (2)   The person seeking the termination of a private secondary telephone
line system agrees that no messages will be telephoned on the line except by an
agent of his or her with access to customer files;
      (3)   The termination of the alarm system will constitute no hindrance to
regular county activities; and
      (4)   The person seeking the termination maintains adequate equipment and
work force to repair, maintain or otherwise service alarm systems sold or
leased by him or her.
(1966 Code, § 6B-2) (Ord. 316, § 2)
§ 11.03.003 MONITORING PANELS, RECEIVING DEVICES AND THE LIKE RESTRICTED.
   No person shall place or cause to be placed any monitoring panels,
annunciators, light panels or receiving equipment in any county building
except, as provided in §
11.03.002 of this chapter, upon approval of the application and authorization
by the Sheriff or his or her designated representative.
(1966 Code, § 6B-3) (Ord. 316, § 3)
§ 11.03.004 INSTALLATION AND MAINTENANCE COSTS.
   All costs and recurring charges incurred in the installation and maintenance
of a private alarm system, permitted under §
11.03.002, shall be borne by the person requesting the alarm system
termination.
(1966 Code, § 6B-4) (Ord. 316, § 4)
§ 11.03.005 REMOVAL OF UNLAWFUL EQUIPMENT.
   In addition to any other remedy provided by law, the Sheriff may, whenever
he or she shall have knowledge of the use of any device or attachment not
operated or maintained in accordance with the provisions of this chapter, order
the removal of the device or attachment or the line termination to which the
device or attachment is connected.
(1966 Code, § 6B-5) (Ord. 316, § 5)
CHAPTER 11.05: FIREWORKS
Section
   
11.05.001   Fireworks defined
   
11.05.002   Sale of fireworks prohibited
   
11.05.002A   Fireworks; sale, possession, and the like
   
11.05.003   Violation; nuisance
   
11.05.004   Violation; criminal penalty
   
11.05.005   Administrative citations; penalties and fees
§ 11.05.001 FIREWORKS DEFINED.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   FIREWORKS. Anything defined as “fireworks” in the Cal. Health and Safety
Code § 12511, including “dangerous fireworks” (Cal. Health and Safety Code §
12505), “safe and sane fireworks” (Cal. Health and Safety Code § 12529), but
not including “auto flares” when used for the purpose of warning other vehicles
or other emergency signaling devices (Cal. Health and Safety Code § 12506), if
they are used for emergency purposes.
(1966 Code, § 6D-1) (Ord. 575, § 1(part))
§ 11.05.002 SALE OF FIREWORKS PROHIBITED.
   No person shall possess, for the purpose of sale, or sell any fireworks
within the unincorporated area of the county.
(1966 Code, § 6D-2) (Ord. 575, § 1(part))
§ 11.05.002A FIREWORKS; SALE, POSSESSION, AND THE LIKE.
   Other than "safe and sane fireworks," as defined in the Health and Safety
Code of the state, no person shall sell, possess, ignite, fire, permit to be
exploded, cause to be exploded or explode any fireworks, as defined in the
Health and Safety Code of the state, within the unincorporated area of the
county.
(Ord. 1,022, § 2)
§ 11.05.003 VIOLATION; NUISANCE.
   Violation of this chapter constitutes a public nuisance, per se.
(1966 Code, § 6D-3) (Ord. 575, § 1(part))
§ 11.05.004 VIOLATION; CRIMINAL PENALTY.
   Any person who violates this chapter is guilty of a misdemeanor.
(1966 Code, § 6D-4) (Ord. 575, § 1(part))
§ 11.05.005 ADMINISTRATIVE CITATIONS; PENALTIES AND FEES.
   
Chapter 11.05 may be enforced through the issuance of administrative citations.
Notwithstanding the maximum fine amounts set forth elsewhere in this code,
fines for violations of this chapter shall be as follows:
   (A)   First offense: $1,000.
   (B)   Second offense: $2,500.
   (C)   Third and subsequent offenses: $5,000.
(Ord. 1,022, § 3)
CHAPTER 11.07: HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES
Section
Article I. In General
   
11.07.001   Adoption of state law and regulations by reference
   
11.07.002   Designation of agency
Article II. Hazardous Wastes; Off-Site Facilities
   
11.07.020   Short title
   
11.07.021   Authority
   
11.07.022   Purpose of article
   
11.07.023   Definitions
   
11.07.024   Findings
   
11.07.025   County Hazardous Waste Management Plan
ARTICLE I. IN GENERAL
§ 11.07.001 ADOPTION OF STATE LAW AND REGULATIONS BY REFERENCE.
   The County of San Benito adopts by reference the requirements of Cal. Health
and Safety Code Chapter 6.7 of Division 20, §§ 25280 through 25299 inclusive,
and the regulations pursuant thereto as adopted by the state’s Water Resources
Control Board for the underground storage of hazardous substances.
(1966 Code, § 7B-1) (Ord. 494, § 1)
§ 11.07.002 DESIGNATION OF AGENCY.
   The County of San Benito designates the Environmental Health Division of the
San Benito County Health Department as the implementing agency responsible for
administration and enforcement of the provisions of state law and regulations
pursuant thereto adopted by the state’s Water Resources Control Board relating
to the underground storage of hazardous substances.
(1966 Code, § 7B-2) (Ord. 494, § 2)
ARTICLE II. HAZARDOUS WASTES; OFF-SITE FACILITIES
§ 11.07.020 SHORT TITLE.
   The ordinance codified in this article shall be known as the “Hazardous
Waste Facilities Consistency Ordinance”.
(1966 Code, § 7B-3) (Ord. 579, § 1(1.0))
§ 11.07.021 AUTHORITY.
   This article is enacted pursuant to Cal. Health and Safety Code § 25135.7
concerning off-site hazardous waste facilities.
(1966 Code, § 7B-4) (Ord. 579, § 1(2.0))
§ 11.07.022 PURPOSE OF ARTICLE.
   The purpose of the Hazardous Waste Facilities Consistency Ordinance codified
in this article is to require that land use decisions concerning off-site
hazardous waste facilities be consistent with the approved San Benito County
Hazardous Waste Management Plan.
(1966 Code, § 7B-5) (Ord. 579, § 1(3.0))
§ 11.07.023 DEFINITIONS.
   Unless otherwise specified in this section or indicated by the context, the
terms used in this article have the meanings ascribed to them in Cal. Health
and Safety Code Division 20, Chapter 6.5 (§§ 25100 et seq.).
   COUNTY HAZARDOUS WASTE MANAGEMENT PLAN. The San Benito County Hazardous
Waste Management Plan adopted by the Board of Supervisors, approved by the
cities in the county and approved by the state’s Department of Health Services.
   HAZARDOUS WASTE FACILITY. All contiguous land and structures, other
appurtenances and improvements on the land used for the treatment, transfer,
storage, resource recovery, disposal or recycling of hazardous waste. A
HAZARDOUS WASTE FACILITY may consist of one or more treatment, transfer,
storage, resource recovery, disposal or recycling hazardous waste management
units, or combinations of these units.
   OFF-SITE HAZARDOUS WASTE FACILITY. A hazardous waste facility that is not an
on-site facility.
   ON-SITE FACILITY. A hazardous waste facility at which a hazardous waste is
produced and which is owned by, leased to, or under the control of, the
producer of the waste.
(1966 Code, § 7B-6) (Ord. 579, § 1(4.0))
§ 11.07.024 FINDINGS.
   The Board of Supervisors finds as follows:
   (A)   San Benito County elected to prepare and did prepare a plan for the
management of hazardous materials and wastes within the Cities of Hollister,
San Juan Bautista and the unincorporated county;
   (B)   San Benito County and the Cities of Hollister and San Juan Bautista
certified an environmental impact report for the Hazardous Waste Management
Plan pursuant to the requirements of the California Environmental Quality Act;
   (C)   The California Department of Health Services approved the San Benito
County Hazardous Waste Management Plan pursuant to authority provided under
Cal. Health and Safety Code § 25135.7(a); and
   (D)   San Benito County and the Cities of Hollister and San Juan Bautista
have adopted the county’s Hazardous Waste Management Plan.
(1966 Code, § 7B-7) (Ord. 579, § 1(5.0))
§ 11.07.025 COUNTY HAZARDOUS WASTE MANAGEMENT PLAN.
   All applicable land use decisions concerning zoning, subdivision,
conditional use permits or variances granted for the operation or expansion of
an off-site hazardous waste facility shall be consistent with the provisions of
the county’s Hazardous Waste Management Plan which identify siting criteria,
siting principles or other policies applicable to hazardous waste facilities.
Before granting an application, the Planning Commission or Board of Supervisors
shall find that the application is consistent with the applicable siting
criteria, siting principles and other policies identified in the county’s
Hazardous Waste Management Plan.
(1966 Code, § 7B-8) (Ord. 579, § 1(5.0))
CHAPTER 11.09: AMBULANCE SERVICE
Section
   
11.09.001   Title
   
11.09.002   Purpose
   
11.09.003   Authority within the county and cities
   
11.09.004   Ordinance administration
   
11.09.005   Generally
   
11.09.006   Ambulance services
   
11.09.007   Certificate of operation and permits required
   
11.09.008   Certificate of operation and permit process
   
11.09.009   Changes to operations
   
11.09.010   Adding vehicles or ambulances
   
11.09.011   Renewal of certificate of operation
   
11.09.012   Fees
   
11.09.013   Hold harmless and liability insurance agreement
   
11.09.014   Financial responsibility
   
11.01.015   General performance standards
   
11.09.016   Ambulance compliance
   
11.09.017   Ambulance inspection and permit process
   
11.09.018   Ambulance communication capacity
   
11.09.019   Ambulance color scheme and design
   
11.09.020   Ambulance staffing
   
11.09.021   Ambulance personnel qualifications
   
11.09.022   Personnel standards
   
11.09.023   Medical control
   
11.09.024   Personal protective equipment
   
11.09.025   Ambulance station standards
   
11.09.026   Service level
   
11.09.027   Response standards
   
11.09.028   Dispatch
   
11.09.029   Prohibitions
   
11.09.030   Advertising
   
11.09.031   Service charges and rates
   
11.09.032   System status updates
   
11.09.033   Investigations and inspections
   
11.09.034   Consumer complaints
   
11.09.035   Penalties
   
11.09.036   Notice issuances
   
11.09.037   Hearings
   
11.09.038   Appeals
   
11.09.039   Emergency action
   
11.09.040   Decision
   
11.09.041   Quality improvement program
   
11.09.042   CCT continuous quality improvement plan
   
11.09.043   Exemptions
   
11.09.044   Medical direction
   
11.09.045   EMS special event notification
   
11.09.046   Emergency and disaster operations
   
11.09.047   Clinical experience program
   
11.09.048   County liability
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 11.09.001 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as the “San Benito County Emergency Medical
Services Ordinance”.
(Ord. 923, § 2 (part), 2014)
§ 11.09.002 PURPOSE.
   The purposes of this chapter are to:
   (A)   Establish formal policies and regulations for issuing certificates and
permits, and regulating the operation of air and ground ambulance services in
the county;
   (B)   Protect the public by assuring that ambulances operate safely and meet
certain minimum levels and standards of equipment, staffing, and mechanical
reliability;
   (C)   Allow for adequate, appropriate, and efficient ambulance services in
all areas of the county;
   (D)   Allow for the orderly and lawful operation of a local emergency and
non-emergency medical services system pursuant to the provisions of Cal. Health
and Safety Code §§ 1797 et seq.; and
   (E)   Allow for all ambulance services to be a part of the county EMS system
with the necessary training, policies, procedures, and communication systems.
(Ord. 923, § 2 (part), 2014)
§ 11.09.003 AUTHORITY.
   (A)   It is the intent of the Board of Supervisors with this chapter to
undertake the prescribed functions and responsibilities of a local government
entity concerning ambulance service as authorized by the State of California
pursuant to, among other authority, Cal. Health and Safety Code §§ 1443 and
1797 et seq., Cal. Welfare and Institutions Code § 17000 and Cal. Vehicle Code
§ 2512.
   (B)   It is the further intent of the Board of Supervisors, in enacting this
chapter, to exercise to the full extent allowable under the laws of the State
of California its discretion and authority to regulate emergency and non-
emergency ambulance transportation services throughout all the unincorporated
and incorporated areas of the county.
(Ord. 923, § 2 (part), 2014)
§ 11.09.004 ORDINANCE ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   The Agency shall be responsible for the administration of this
chapter, and shall make necessary and reasonable policies, procedures, and/or
protocols for the effective and reasonable administration of this chapter.
   (B)   All references herein to agency policies and medical orders/direction
by the EMS Medical Director shall be interpreted as referring to the current
version and all subsequent additions/deletions to such policies and
regulations.
(Ord. 923, § 2 (part), 2014)
§ 11.09.005 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   9-1-1 AMBULANCE SERVICE. An ambulance service that provides advanced life
support (ALS) and is contracted by the Agency to provide 9-1-1 emergency
ambulance service.
   9-1-1 EMERGENCY CALL. A 9-1-1 request for an ambulance to transport or
assist persons in apparent sudden need of medical attention; or an ambulance
transport that is initially classified as a non-emergency call that becomes a
9-1-1 EMERGENCY CALL due to a change in the patient’s medical condition; or a
medical emergency, as determined by a physician, to transport blood, or any
therapeutic device, accessory to such device, or tissue or organ for
transplant.
   ADVANCED LIFE SUPPORT or ALS. Special services designed to provide
definitive prehospital emergency medical care, including, but not limited to,
cardiopulmonary resuscitation, cardiac monitoring, cardiac defibrillation,
advanced airway management, intravenous therapy, administration of specified
drugs and other medicinal preparations, and other specified techniques and
procedures administered by authorized personnel under the direct supervision of
a base hospital as part of a local EMS system at the scene of an emergency,
during transport to an acute care hospital, during interfacility transfer, and
while in the emergency department of an acute care hospital until
responsibility is assumed by the emergency or other medical staff of that
hospital.
   AGENCY. The San Benito County Emergency Medical Services Agency.
   ALS AMBULANCE SERVICE. The service performed due to the patient’s medical
condition that requires paramedic level care. This service may be performed in
response to:
      (1)   Contracted 9-1-1 ambulance service;
      (2)   Interfacility transfer services; or
      (3)   Transportation of a patient, regardless of a presumption of death
of the patient, or transportation of a body for the purpose of making an
anatomical gift, as provided in Cal. Vehicle Code § 12811, and the Uniform
Anatomical Gift Act, Cal. Health and Safety Code §§ 7150 et seq.
   AMBULANCE. A ground transportation vehicle certified by the California
Highway Patrol that is specially constructed, modified or equipped and used for
the purpose of transporting sick, injured, convalescent, infirm, or otherwise
incapacitated persons and staffed with no less than two EMTs. The
specifications of this chapter also apply to air ambulance and Gurney or
wheelchair van where appropriate.
   AMBULANCE PERMIT. The document and/or decal issued by the Agency for each
vehicle conforming to the requirements of these regulations, which is owned or
controlled by a person holding a certificate of operation.
   AMBULANCE PROVIDER. A person, firm, partnership, corporation or other
organization, which furnishes or offers to furnish ambulance service.
   AMBULANCE SERVICE. The activity, business or service, for hire, profit or
otherwise, of transporting one or more persons by an ambulance or air ambulance
on, in, or from any of the streets, roads, highways, alleys, or any public way
or place in this county.
   AIR AMBULANCE. Any aircraft specially constructed, modified or equipped, and
used for the primary purposes of responding to emergency calls and transporting
critically ill or injured patients whose medical flight crew has at a minimum
two attendants certified or licensed in advanced life support.
   BASIC LIFE SUPPORT or BLS. Emergency first aid and cardiopulmonary
resuscitation procedures which, as a minimum, include recognizing respiratory
and cardiac arrest and starting the proper application of cardiopulmonary
resuscitation to maintain life without invasive techniques until the victim may
be transported or until advanced life support is available.
   BOARD. The Board of Supervisor of the County of San Benito.
   CERTIFICATE OF OPERATION. Written authorization from the Agency to operate
ALS and BLS ambulances, air ambulances, or Gurney and wheelchair vans in San
Benito County.
   CITIES. All incorporated cities within the County of San Benito.
   COUNTY. County of San Benito, California.
   COUNTY POLICIES. The policies and regulations as defined in the Agency’s
Policy, Procedure & Field Treatment Guidelines.
   CRITICAL CARE TRANSPORT or CCT. Any emergency or non-emergency transport of
a patient where the skill level required in the care of that patient during
transport requires, or may require, care within the CCT-paramedic or CCT-
registered nurse scope of practice.
   CRITICAL CARE TRANSPORT POLICIES. The policies and regulations as defined in
the Agency’s Policy, Procedure & Field Treatment Guidelines.
   EMERGENCY MEDICAL TECHNICIAN or EMT. An individual trained and certified in
basic life support care in accordance with the provisions contained in the
California Code of Regulations, Title 22, Division 9, Chapter 2 et seq.
   EXCLUSIVE OPERATING AREA or EOA. An EMS area or sub area as defined by the
Agency, which restricts operations to one or more ambulance providers.
   GURNEY VAN TRANSPORT. Any vehicle specially constructed, modified or
equipped and/or used for the purpose of transporting patients who cannot travel
in an upright, sitting position and for whom the need for any medical care,
treatment or procedure is not required, likely, or foreseeable.
   NON-EMERGENCY CALL. A request for an ambulance to transport or assist
persons that would not constitute a 9-1-1 emergency call.
   PARAMEDIC. An individual trained and licensed in advanced life support care
in accordance with the provisions contained in the California Code of
Regulations, Title 22, Division 9, Chapter 4 et seq. and accredited by the
Agency.
   PERMITTEE. A person, firm, partnership, corporation or other organization to
whom a certificate of operation and ambulance permit(s) have been issued for
purposes of operating an ambulance service.
   PERSONAL PROTECTIVE EQUIPMENT or PPE. The minimum equipment, supplies, and
personal protective equipment - per responder - to ensure safety and readiness.
   QUICK RESPONSE VEHICLE or QRV. A unit staffed with at least one EMT with BLS
equipment, or at least one California State licensed and San Benito County
accredited paramedic with ALS equipment capable of providing care at scenes of
medical emergencies or being utilized for community paramedicine and/or mobile
integrated healthcare programs, whether or not the vehicle is capable of
transporting patients.
   SPECIAL EVENT. A designated event, including, but not limited to street
fairs, concerts, sporting events, contests, or other events that place a
grouping or gathering of people in one general locale sufficient in number, or
subject to activity that creates the need to have one or more ambulances pre-
positioned at the event.
   WHEELCHAIR VAN TRANSPORT. Any vehicle specially constructed, modified or
equipped and/or used for the purpose of transporting patients in wheelchairs
for whom the need for any medical care, treatment or procedure is not required,
likely, or foreseeable.
(Ord. 923, § 2 (part), 2014)
§ 11.09.006 AMBULANCE SERVICES.
   (A)   ALS emergency ambulance services shall only be provided under a 9-1-
1 contract with the Agency under provisions of Cal. Health & Safety Code §
1797.224.
   (B)   BLS emergency and non-emergency transport service shall be provided
under the provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   CCT emergency and non-emergency transport service shall be provided
under the provisions of this chapter and the Agency’s policies.
   (D)   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed as regulating the clinical
work of registered nurses (RN) working in a CCT capacity.
(Ord. 923, § 2 (part), 2014)
§ 11.09.007 CERTIFICATE OF OPERATION AND PERMITS REQUIRED.
   (A)    No person (either as owner, agent, or otherwise) shall furnish,
operate, conduct, maintain, or otherwise engage in or advertise, offer, or
profess to engage in ambulance service within the county unless the person
holds (and is entitled to hold) a currently valid ambulance certificate of
operation issued by the Agency.
   (B)   No person (either as owner, agent, or otherwise) shall furnish and
operate an ambulance unless that ambulance has a currently valid ambulance
permit issued by the Agency.
   (C)   Quick response vehicles, gurney, and wheelchair van transport
providers are required to hold an ambulance certificate of operation. Gurney
van and wheelchair van medical transportation services will not be provided on
an exclusive basis. Each medical transportation entity providing service within
the county shall obtain a certificate of operation. A transportation vehicle
permit is required for each vehicle owned by the medical transportation entity
and operated within the county.
   (D)   No person (either as owner, agent, or otherwise) shall furnish and
operate a quick response vehicle, gurney, or wheelchair van unless that vehicle
has a currently valid ambulance permit issued by the Agency.
   (E)   No certificate of operation or ambulance permit is required for the
delivery into the county of persons picked up outside the county. No
certificate of operation or ambulance permit is required for specialized teams,
including, but not limited to, neonatal intensive care units permitted by
another emergency medical services agency, or transporting patients to acute
care hospitals based outside of the county.
   (F)   Exclusive operating areas. The county has not established EOA for BLS,
and/or CCT emergency and/or non-emergency transport, but retains its option to
do so in the future.
(Ord. 923, § 2 (part), 2014; Ord. 977, § 2, 2019)
§ 11.09.008 CERTIFICATE OF OPERATION AND PERMIT PROCESS.
   (A)    Application forms for an ambulance service certificate of operation
shall be supplied by the Agency.
   (B)   The applicant must be a licensed CHP ambulance service prior to
submitting an application.
   (C)   Required data. Each applicant who desires an ambulance service
certificate of operation shall submit the following on, or as attachments with,
their application:
      (1)   The names and addresses of the applicant(s), registered owner(s),
partner(s), officer(s), director(s), and controlling shareholder(s), hereafter
called "applicant";
      (2)   The name under which the applicant has engaged, does, or proposes
to engage, in ambulance service;
      (3)   The level(s) of service requested;
      (4)   A statement specifying whether the applicant has provided services
in the county prior to the establishment of this chapter, and if so, what type
and for how long;
      (5)   A statement specifying whether the applicant has previously
operated a company outside of the county, and if so, under what name, what
type, where, and for how long;
      (6)   A copy of a current CHP emergency ambulance non-transferable
license, if applicable;
      (7)   An assets and liabilities statement or a letter prepared by a
certified public accountant showing proof of financial solvency;
      (8)   A copy of the business license for the city in which the applicant
is doing business;
      (9)   A statement of the legal history of the applicant, including
criminal and civil convictions;
      (10)   A statement specifying the education, training, and experience in
the care and transportation of patients;
      (11)   A statement that the applicant will abide by the regulations of
the California Vehicle Code and the California Code of Regulations, Title 13,
Motor Vehicles;
      (12)   A statement that the applicant owns or has under his control, in
good mechanical condition, required equipment to consistently provide service
in the area for which they are applying, and that the applicant owns or has
access to suitable facilities for maintaining equipment in a clean and sanitary
condition;
      (13)   A statement that the applicant understands and will comply with
the county's staffing and equipment and supply specifications policies, or
contractual requirements regarding equipment carried for each level of service;
      (14)   A list of the actual number of vehicles or ambulances and for
each: the make and model, year, the vehicle identification number (VIN), state
vehicle license number and proof of current Department of Motor Vehicle
registration, and proof of California Highway Patrol ambulance inspection
report and ambulance identification certificate;
      (15)   A statement that the applicant understands and will comply with
the ambulance inspection process, including the required fees;
      (16)   A statement that the applicant has or will have sufficient
personnel adequately trained and available to deliver service of good quality
at all times, including copies of their certifications/licenses;
      (17)   A statement of the applicant's training and orientation programs
for EMTs, and/or paramedics and dispatchers;
      (18)   A description of the number and type, frequency, and private line
codes of the vehicle's radios, and if used, phone numbers of the vehicle's
cellular phones;
      (19)   A description of the company's program for maintenance of the
vehicles;
      (20)   A description and photo/image of the company's logo and color
scheme to be used to designate the vehicles or ambulances of the applicant;
      (21)   The number of vehicles or ambulances to be deployed on each shift;
      (22)   A description of the locations from which services will be
offered, noting the hours of operation and phone numbers;
      (23)   Evidence of insurance coverage compliance under §
11.09.013;
      (24)   A certificate of consent to self-insure issued by the California
State Director of Industrial Relations, or a certificate of workman's
compensation insurance;
      (25)   A quality improvement program as specified in §
11.09.041;
      (26)   A disaster response plan as specified in §
11.09.046;
      (27)   All service charges and rates to be charged, showing compliance
with any maximum charges established by the county;
      (28)   An acknowledgment and promise to pay the application fee for a
certificate of operation within ten days of receipt of invoice;
      (29)   An acknowledgment and promise to pay the inspection fee for each
vehicle or ambulance within ten days of receipt of invoice;
      (30)   If applying for a CCT certificate of operation, copies of all
paperwork for inter-facility transport as identified in the Agency CCT policy;
and
      (31)   Any other information the Agency deems necessary for determination
of compliance with this division.
   (D)   Upon submission of an application, an invoice will be mailed to the
applicant indicating the certificate of operations fee and the inspection fee
for each vehicle or ambulance.
   (E)   Within 30 days of receipt of a complete application and the required
fee, the Agency shall determine divisions (1) through (7) below, or if an
extension is necessary:
      (1)   Whether the applicant is a licensed CHP ambulance service; and
      (2)   Whether the applicant meets the requirements of this chapter and of
other applicable laws, ordinances, and regulations; and
      (3)   Whether the applicant is able to provide the requested service; and
      (4)   Whether the applicant has knowingly made a false statement of fact
in such application; and
      (5)   Whether the applicant has knowingly failed to disclose facts
pertinent to the application process; and
      (6)   Whether the applicant was previously a holder of a certificate of
operation issued under this chapter, which has been revoked or not renewed
based on the provisions of this chapter; and
      (7)   Whether the applicant's vehicles, equipment, and appurtenances,
including radios, are in good working order and the ambulances pass an
inspection, according to the provisions of §§
11.09.016 and
11.09.017.
   (F)   Approval or denial.
      (1)   If it is determined that the applicant does not meet all
requirements within this section, then the Agency shall deny the application
and notify the applicant in writing.
      (2)   If it is determined that the applicant meets all requirements
within this section, the Agency
shall approve the application and issue a certificate of operation, and, upon a
positive inspection, appropriate ambulance permits.
   (G)   Appeal from denial of issuance. Whenever the Agency denies an
application, the applicant may request a hearing on the denial at which the
applicant will have the burden of proof. The appeal will be made to the Board
of Supervisors according to the provisions of §
11.09.011.
   (H)   Decisions; finality. The decision of the Agency rendered pursuant to
this chapter shall be final, unless appealed to the Board of Supervisors within
30 days after such decision is rendered in writing, and notice of the same is
given to the applicant.
   (I)   Term.
      (1)   Certificates of operation shall be valid for one calendar year
beginning on January 1 and ending on December 31.
      (2)   Certificates of operation shall be continued upon conditions of §
11.09.037 unless earlier suspended, revoked, or terminated for cause.
      (3)   It is the responsibility of the permittee to maintain current data
with the Agency.
      (4)   Notice of intent to discontinue service. A permittee providing
ambulance service may discontinue such services only after providing notice in
writing of intent to discontinue services to the Agency or upon mutual written
agreement.
   (J)   Transfer of certificate of operation or ambulance permit. Application
for transfer of any permittee's certificate of operation shall be subject to
the same terms, conditions, and requirements as if the application were for an
original certificate. No ambulance permit shall be transferred to another
person(s) or company or corporation, except upon prior approval of the Agency.
   (K)   Interruption of service. In the event of any actual or anticipated
interruption of service, or any actual or anticipated substantial changes in
the ambulance services, which cause, or threaten to cause, the ambulance
service to be carried out differently than specified in the certificate of
operation, the certificate holder shall immediately notify the Agency verbally,
to be followed by written notification within three days, stating the facts of
the actual or anticipated change.
   (L)   Temporary or emergency certificates. The Agency may grant a temporary
or emergency certificate of operation to insure the public health, safety, or
welfare. The temporary or emergency certificate shall remain in effect for the
period indicated by the EMS Administrator, but shall not exceed 180 days.
(Ord. 923, § 2 (part), 2014; Ord. 977, § 3, 2019)
§ 11.09.009 CHANGES TO OPERATIONS.
   The permittee shall notify the county about changes to business location and
phone numbers; ambulance stations and phone numbers; hours of operations;
service charges and rates; insurance coverage; and changes to applicant(s),
registered owner(s), partner(s), officer(s), director(s) and controlling
shareholder(s) on file; within 15 days of such changes.
(Ord. 923, § 2 (part), 2014)
§ 11.09.010 ADDING VEHICLES OR AMBULANCES.
    If a permittee desires to include additional vehicles or ambulances under
its certificate of operation, the permittee shall submit a vehicle description
form for each additional unit, provide the designated fee per unit to the
Agency, and schedule an inspection. The term of the ambulance permit for
additional authorized units shall run concurrently with the last authorized
permit period.
(Ord. 923, § 2 (part), 2014; Ord. 977, § 4, 2019)
§ 11.09.011 RENEWAL OF CERTIFICATE OF OPERATION.
   (A)    Applicants for renewal of an ambulance service certificate of
operation under this chapter shall file with the Agency an application, which
shall include information required in §
11.09.008(C). Renewal applications may be submitted 60 days prior to the
expiration date but no later than 20 days prior to the expiration date. An
invoice will be provided to the applicant.
   (B)   The Agency reserves the right to inspect all vehicles specified by the
permittee and have their permits renewed in accordance with the provisions of §
11.09.017, Ambulance Inspection and Permit Process. The issuance of a renewed
certificate of operation shall be based on receipt of all documentation and
payment of fees.
   (C)   Renewal of a certificate of operation shall require conformance with
all requirements of an initial certificate. Nothing in this section shall be
construed as requiring the granting of a renewal certificate upon expiration of
a previous certificate without first having met all requirements. The applicant
bears the burden of proof that all requirements have been met for the issuance
of a renewal certificate for the specified period of operation.
   (D)   An ambulance provider shall submit with their renewal application a
financial statement of its business activities or a letter showing proof of
financial solvency, prepared by a certified public accountant. Renewal of a
certificate is contingent upon proof of financial solvency within the proper
time frames.
(Ord. 923, § 2 (part), 2014; Ord. 977, § 5, 2019)
§ 11.09.012 FEES.
   (A)    Once the application for an initial or renewal certificate of
operation is reviewed, an invoice will be provided for the highest level of
service intended, and all ambulance permit fees, including inspection fees, as
defined in the applicable county fee schedule.
   (B)   The Board of Supervisors shall set the fees by resolution. The fees
shall not exceed the reasonable cost of administering and enforcing this
chapter as determined by the Board of Supervisors.
(Ord. 923, § 2 (part), 2014; Ord. 977, § 6, 2019)
§ 11.09.013 HOLD HARMLESS AND LIABILITY INSURANCE AGREEMENT.
   (A)   Each permittee, at its sole cost and expense, shall obtain, maintain,
and comply with all county insurance coverage(s) and requirements. Types of
insurance coverage include commercial general liability, commercial or business
automobile liability, worker’s compensation and employers liability,
professional liability/errors and omissions, and endorsements and conditions.
   (B)   Lack of coverage as required at any time shall automatically suspend
the certificate of operation. Failure of the permittee to notify the Agency of
lack of coverage for any reason shall be deemed a violation of regulation
subject to fine.
   (C)   As a condition of being issued a permit, permittee shall be required
to indemnify and hold harmless the county from any and all claims or actions
for property damage, personal injury, sickness, disease, caused by the
permittee’s acts or omissions and will pay any and all judgment decrees, costs,
attorney’s fees which may be rendered against the county, its directors,
officers, agents, employees and volunteers in any and all such actions or
proceedings.
(Ord. 923, § 2 (part), 2014)
§ 11.09.014 FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY.
   Each permittee shall provide the county with information in reference to any
pending legal or administrative action or unpaid judgments or liens against the
permittee, and the notice of the transactions or acts giving rise to the
judgments or liens. The permittee shall notify the Agency in writing of the
actions within one week of the notification from the levying agency. The
reported information will be reviewed by the Agency who will make a
determination regarding the effect the action will have on the permittee’s
ability to provide continuous service in accordance with this section.
(Ord. 923, § 2 (part), 2014)
§ 11.09.015 GENERAL PERFORMANCE STANDARDS.
   (A)   Permittee shall maintain sufficient ambulances, operational procedures
and personnel, with valid certifications and licenses to meet performance
standards and permit specifications.
   (B)   Permittee shall follow the Agency’s policies.
   (C)   Permittee and their personnel shall follow the regulations of the
California Vehicle Code and the California Code or Regulations, Title 13, Motor
Vehicles.
   (D)   Permittee shall maintain supervisory or management personnel,
available on a 24 hour basis on site or on-call, authorized to make operational
decisions, direct personnel and commit resources for use.
   (E)   Permittee shall maintain a quality assurance program and perform
quality assurance activities in accordance with this chapter.
   (F)   Permittee shall maintain a disaster response plan that includes a
personnel call-back plan for disasters and mass casualty incidents in
accordance with §
11.09.046.
   (G)   Permittee shall ensure that all management, supervisory, dispatch and
field personnel maintain knowledge and familiarity with multi-casualty incident
medical operations, staging, and incident command structure.
(Ord. 923, § 2 (part), 2014)
§ 11.09.016 AMBULANCE COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   Each ambulance shall be equipped according to the standard vehicle
safety and equipment requirements of the California Vehicle Code and the
California Code or Regulations, Title 13, Motor Vehicles.
   (B)   Each ambulance shall carry a photocopy or original current vehicle
registration, current insurance identification, current CHP ambulance
identification card (or CHP inspection report valid for 30 days after an
initial inspection), and current county issued ambulance permit.
   (C)   Each ambulance shall carry standard patient carrying fixtures and
restraints necessary for the comfort and safety of patients.
   (D)   Each ambulance shall be equipped with no less than the standardized
equipment and supplies as established according to the county’s equipment and
supply specifications policy for the level of service provided. CCT ambulances
shall be equipped according to the county’s critical care transport policy.
   (E)   Permittee shall maintain its vehicles, equipment, and supplies in a
clean, sanitary, and safe mechanical condition at all times.
(Ord. 923, § 2 (part), 2014)
§ 11.09.017 AMBULANCE INSPECTION AND PERMIT PROCESS.
   (A)    No person, firm, partnership, corporation, or other organization,
except as identified in §
11.09.007, shall operate or cause any ambulance, quick response vehicle, and
gurney or wheelchair van to be operated in the county unless an ambulance
permit has been issued for that vehicle in accordance with these regulations.
   (B)   The county reserves the right to inspect each vehicle for which it
receives an application to ensure compliance with this chapter and the county's
policies,
protocols, and regulations as they pertain to that vehicle and the service
level applied for, according to the provisions of §§
11.09.016 and this section.
   (C)   The annual inspection for permit renewal shall be based on the list of
vehicles submitted by the permittee.
   (D)   The permittee shall be notified in a timely manner of the results of
the inspection and any corrective action required if a vehicle fails the
inspection.
   (E)   Upon passage of the inspection, the county shall issue an ambulance
permit or renewal of the permit to the permittee.
   (F)   The ambulance inspection will be for all equipment identified in the
county's policies which has not been inspected by the CHP under the Cal. Code
of Regulations, Title 13, Division 2, Chapter 2, Article 1, §§ 1103 and 1103.2.
(Ord. 923, § 2 (part), 2014; Ord. 977, § 7, 2019)
§ 11.09.018 AMBULANCE COMMUNICATION CAPABILITY.
   Each ambulance and quick response vehicle shall have a radio for
establishing and maintaining radio contact with county’s designated
communications center and county hospital(s) as prescribed by the county and in
compliance with FCC regulations.
(Ord. 923, § 2 (part), 2014)
§ 11.09.019 AMBULANCE COLOR SCHEME AND DESIGN.
   (A)    At the time of initial application, permittee shall request a
specific color scheme and design, and, upon approval by the county, shall apply
such color scheme and design to each vehicle receiving an ambulance permit.
   (B)   The color scheme and design shall not imitate or conflict with any
other color scheme authorized by this chapter in a manner that is misleading or
would tend to deceive the public.
   (C)   No sign, letter, color, appliance, or item of decorative or
distinguishing nature shall be attached or applied to any ambulance unless it
has first been approved in the color scheme authorized for each ambulance
provider.
(Ord. 923, § 2 (part), 2014; Ord. 977, § 8, 2019)
§ 11.09.020 AMBULANCE STAFFING.
    Each BLS ambulance shall be staffed with a minimum of two state certified
EMTs. Paramedics licensed in the state may also staff BLS ambulances but may
not utilize the paramedic scope of practice. Each ALS ambulance shall be
staffed with a minimum of one paramedic and one EMT. Each CCT ambulance shall
be staffed according to the county's CCT policy. Each gurney van and wheelchair
van must be staffed in accordance with Cal. Code of Regulations, Title 22,
Division 3, Chapter 3, Article 3, § 51231.1 for gurney vans and § 51231.2 for
wheelchair vans.
(Ord. 923, § 2 (part), 2014; Ord. 977, § 9, 2019)
§ 11.09.021 AMBULANCE PERSONNEL QUALIFICATIONS.
   (A)    All personnel while on duty must carry all applicable certificates
and permittee identification, and comply with the county's policies and
procedures.
   (B)   All EMT and paramedic personnel must have a current driver’s license,
ambulance driver certificate, and a medical examiner's certificate. EMTs hired
to solely provide patient care duties are exempt from this requirement. The
permittee is required to inform the county of these personnel and any changes
to their work status.
   (C)   Permittee's EMT personnel assigned to provide BLS service under this
chapter must meet the minimum qualifications:
      (1)   EMTs must hold current, valid EMT certification in the state;
      (2)   EMTs shall be certified in cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR/AED)
according to the policies of the county and state; and
      (3)   EMTs assigned to provide CCT driver/assistant service must meet the
additional qualifications specified in the county's CCT policy.
   (D)   Permittee's paramedic personnel assigned to provide ALS or CCT service
under this chapter must meet the minimum qualifications:
      (1)   Paramedics must hold current, valid paramedic license in the state;
      (2)   Paramedics shall be accredited by the county and hold current and
valid ALS certifications; and
      (3)   Paramedics assigned to provide CCT patient care must meet the
additional qualifications specified in the county's CCT policy.
   (E)   Permittee's registered nurse (RN) personnel assigned to provide CCT
service under this chapter must meet the minimum qualifications specified in
the county's CCT policy.
   (F)   All drivers must complete an emergency vehicle operation course
(EVOC), or its equivalent, related to responding to calls for emergency medical
service that includes, but is not limited to, the following didactic and
practical components: legal aspects of the emergency ambulance operation, the
practice of defensive driving, accident avoidance, principles of vehicle
control, routine vehicle safety checks, breaking and stopping, acceleration,
and steering.
   (G)   The permittee shall retain on file at all times, copies of all current
and valid licenses, certifications, and/or accreditations of all emergency
medical personnel performing services under this chapter.
(Ord. 923, § 2 (part), 2014; Ord. 977, § 10, 2019)
§ 11.09.022 PERSONNEL STANDARDS.
   Ambulance companies shall maintain personnel standards that include
orientation to the county policies and procedures, special training as deemed
necessary by the EMS Medical Director, uniforms and appearances, safety
apparel, identification, driver training, work-hour scheduling limitations,
with due consideration for collective bargaining agreements and/or state and
federal regulations where they apply.
(Ord. 923, § 2 (part), 2014)
§ 11.09.023 MEDICAL CONTROL.
   All 9-1-1 ambulance service personnel are to provide patient care in
accordance with the county’s policies and as directed by standing or specific
orders issued by the EMS Medical Director, or his or her designee.
(Ord. 923, § 2 (part), 2014)
§ 11.09.024 PERSONAL PROTECTIVE EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   Permittee shall supply and maintain standardized personal protective
equipment and supplies to ensure safety and readiness, according to Cal/OSHA
guidelines.
   (B)   Permittee shall ensure that all personnel receive training in all
available equipment, including fit testing, according to Cal/OSHA guidelines.
(Ord. 923, § 2 (part), 2014)
§ 11.09.025 AMBULANCE STATION STANDARDS.
   Ambulance company stations shall meet the minimum standards in § 8 of the
Federal Housing Authority, and include an EMS bulletin board, provisions for
storage, and protection of ambulance(s). Stations shall comply with all
applicable zoning, building, and occupational health and safety regulations.
(Ord. 923, § 2 (part), 2014)
§ 11.09.026 SERVICE LEVEL.
   The permittee shall be approved by the county prior to beginning service,
including the 9-1-1 ambulance service provider.
(Ord. 923, § 2 (part), 2014)
§ 11.09.027 RESPONSE STANDARDS.
   (A)    Any private call of a life threatening nature or a call requiring ALS
level care shall be immediately referred to the 9-1-1 emergency dispatchers.
   (B)   If an ambulance responds to a patient who appears to have a medical
emergency, the crew shall call 9-1-1 and request a 9-1-1 response, and render
appropriate care within their scope of practice until the ALS ambulance is on
scene.
   (C)   Permittee shall dispatch an ambulance to a non-emergency BLS call
within 15 minutes unless the caller is immediately advised of a delay in
responding to the call or the unavailability of an ambulance. The exception to
this is for calls that have been prescheduled.
   (D)   Permittee shall provide prompt transportation of the patient to the
most appropriate medical facility, licensed, equipped, and staffed to meet the
needs of the patient in accordance with applicable laws, rules, regulations,
and policies.
   (E)   The permittee or their employees shall report within one day to the
county, on an unusual occurrence form, any critical failure or call for service
where the unit that responded was not staffed and equipped at the appropriate
service level.
(Ord. 923, § 2 (part), 2014; Ord. 977, § 11, 2019)
§ 11.09.028 DISPATCH.
   (A)   Each ambulance company providing service under this chapter shall
assign at least one person or an agency to be responsible for receiving calls
and dispatching ambulances. The permittee shall have a dispatcher training
program that includes prioritizing tasks including, but not limited to, call
intake, unit assignment, crew utilization and computer input; documentation and
reporting; communication equipment; and compliance with the Agency’s policies,
procedures, and/or protocols covering ambulance service operation, ambulance
transport, equipment, ambulance personnel, and standards of dispatch.
Dispatchers shall be certified in CPR/AED.
   (B)   Each permittee ambulance dispatch center shall have access to Agency
approved resource management system for the purpose of county system status
updates.
(Ord. 923, § 2 (part), 2014)
§ 11.09.029 PROHIBITIONS.
   Ambulance companies are hereby prohibited from engaging in the following
activities:
   (A)   Permitting the operation of an ambulance in any manner contrary to the
provisions of this chapter or contrary to any applicable statute, rule, or
regulation;
   (B)   Responding to a call when not requested to respond to that call by an
individual requesting that service or the appropriate dispatch center;
   (C)   Causing or allowing its vehicles to respond to a 9-1-1 emergency call
location without first receiving a specific request from the county’s
designated communications center;
   (D)   Providing ALS service without possessing a current and valid ALS
certificate of operation and associated ambulance permit(s); and
   (E)   Providing critical care transport services without possessing a
current and valid critical care transport certificate of operation and
associated ambulance permit(s).
(Ord. 923, § 2 (part), 2014)
§ 11.09.030 ADVERTISING.
   (A)   No person or organization shall announce, advertise, offer, or in any
way claim that it provides non-9-1-1 ambulance, quick response vehicle, gurney
or wheelchair van service in San Benito County unless it possesses a current
and valid certificate of operation.
   (B)   No person or organization shall announce, advertise, offer, or in any
way claim that it provides emergency 9-1-1 service unless it has been approved
as an emergency 9-1-1 provider by the Agency.
   (C)   Any use of a telephone number on a vehicle shall include the phrase
“FOR EMERGENCIES, CALL 9-1-1” in capital letters that are at least as big as
the letters used for the telephone number.
(Ord. 923, § 2 (part), 2014)
§ 11.09.031 SERVICE CHARGES AND RATES.
   The permittee shall submit their service charges and rates to the Agency
with their application for a certificate of operation and with each renewal.
All service charges and rates must be defined in sufficient detail so as to be
understandable to the public. The Agency reserves the option, with Board of
Supervisor approval, to set base rates for 9-1-1 ambulance service calls.
(Ord. 923, § 2 (part), 2014)
§ 11.09.032 SYSTEM STATUS UPDATES.
   (A)   The permittee shall annually submit a system update to the Agency. The
update shall identify:
      (1)   Station locations.
      (2)   Posting locations.
      (3)   The number of vehicles normally available for response by time of
day and day of week, with any seasonal variations.
   (B)   The permittee shall, at the start of each calendar year, submit to the
Agency, in an electronic form, a list of all EMTs, paramedics and nurses
employed along with their certificate or license numbers. In addition, the
permittee shall notify the Agency within 30 days of any EMTs, paramedics, or
nurses who have been newly hired, terminated, retired, or have separated their
employment.
(Ord. 923, § 2 (part), 2014)
§ 11.09.033 INVESTIGATIONS AND INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   The Agency shall have the right to inspect the records, facilities,
equipment, supplies, personnel, and methods of operation of the permittee
whenever the Agency deems such inspection necessary.
   (B)   The permittee shall cooperate with the Agency, in any investigations
of possible violations of state laws and regulations, county ordinances, and
Agency’s policies, procedures, and/or protocols. Permittee shall make all
dispatch logs and similar dispatch records, including recordings, available for
inspection and copying at reasonable times at the Permittee’s regular place of
business. All recordings shall remain available for a minimum of 90 days from
the date the recording was made.
   (C)   The permittee shall allow the Agency to inspect, on a pre-announced or
unannounced basis, all vehicles used to provide services. The inspections
should be held, whenever possible, during normal business hours at the
permittee’s operations center. The purpose of such inspections is to determine
if the vehicle and its equipment and supplies are in good working order,
properly maintained and equipped for the provision of service for which it is
permitted. The inspection will be for all equipment identified in the Agency’s
policies, which has not been inspected by the CHP under the California Code of
Regulations, Title 13, Vehicle Code, Division 2, Chapter 2, Article 1, §§ 1103
and 1103.2.
   (D)   At the request of the Agency, the permittee shall submit self-
inspections of all vehicles on the Agency’s ambulance inspection form.
   (E)   The permittee shall inform the Agency of any suspension and/or
revocation of their California Highway Patrol ambulance service license, or
vehicle certificate, or authorized emergency vehicle permit for any of their
support vehicle(s).
(Ord. 923, § 2 (part), 2014)
§ 11.09.034 CONSUMER COMPLAINTS.
   (A)   Any user of a permitted service contending that he/she received
unsatisfactory service(s) may file a written complaint with the Agency. Such
written complaint(s) shall set forth the allegations. The Agency shall notify
the permittee of the complaint and provide the permittee with information about
the complaint.
   (B)   The Agency shall conduct an investigation of the allegation(s) in the
written complaint to determine the validity of said allegation(s). If the
allegation(s) are found to be valid, the Agency shall take actions to secure
compliance with the provisions of this chapter and any established regulations.
   (C)   If the Agency is unable to secure compliance, it will initiate action
to penalize, suspend or revoke the certificate of operation.
(Ord. 923, § 2 (part), 2014)
§ 11.09.035 PENALTIES.
   (A)   The Agency may suspend or revoke a certificate of operation for:
      (1)   Violating any provision, regulation, law, state or federal
standards or ordinances;
      (2)   Failure to make and retain records showing its operations in any
area covered by this chapter, including but not limited to dispatching,
response, personnel, vehicles, medical treatment or billing, or failure to make
such records available for inspection by the Agency;
      (3)   Accepting an emergency or non-emergency call when it is either
unable or unwilling to provide the requested service, or fails to inform the
person requesting such service of any delay, and fails to obtain consent of
such person before causing an ambulance to respond from a location more distant
than the one to which the request was directed; or
      (4)   Failure to pay any fine issued pursuant to this section within 30
business days.
   (B)   Suspension does not have to precede revocation.
   (C)   Fines.
      (1)   Fines may be issued by the Agency for:
         (a)   Failure to provide required clinical or operational reports,
including dispatch records;
         (b)   Failure to comply with requirements for personnel, equipment,
and vehicles; and
         (c)   Failure to comply with any other section of this chapter or any
regulation adopted pursuant to this chapter.
      (2)   Exceptions shall be granted for records destroyed by fire,
explosion, or theft beyond the
reasonable control of the permittee; a declaration of local, state, or federal
emergency impacting the permittee’s resources; and/or acts of God.
      (3)   Failure to remit amount of fine levied within 30 days of resolution
of appeal to the Board of Supervisors may result in revocation of the
certification of operation.
   (D)   Violations.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided, any permittee who violates any
provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor as provided under
Cal. Gov’t Code § 25132.
      (2)   A permittee who violates provisions of this chapter shall be
subject to a fine:
         (a)   Not exceeding $250 for a first violation;
         (b)   Not exceeding $500 for a second violation of the same section;
and
         (c)   Not exceeding $1,000 for each additional violation within one
year of the same section.
      (3)   A violation period is defined as each day or portion thereof that a
permittee is in violation of this chapter.
      (4)   The county or designee is hereby authorized to institute and
pursue, in the name of the county, pursuant to the provisions of Cal. Gov’t
Code § 25132, civil actions for the recovery of fines for violations of this
chapter.
      (5)   Payment of any fine herein shall not relieve the permittee from the
responsibility of correcting the violation.
(Ord. 923, § 2 (part), 2014)
§ 11.09.036 NOTICE ISSUANCES.
   Before any suspension or revocation, the Agency shall give written notice to
the permittee specifying why such action is contemplated and giving the
permittee up to 15 business days to comply with the provisions in question or
to request a hearing to show cause against suspension, revocation, or levying
of a fine and setting a date for hearing.
(Ord. 923, § 2 (part), 2014)
§ 11.09.037 HEARINGS.
   (A)   If an applicant for a certificate of operation or an ambulance permit
or a permitee is dissatisfied with any of the actions taken by the Agency, he/
she may request an administrative hearing.
   (B)   The request for an administrative hearing must be filed within 15
business days of the date of the notice. The hearing must be held within 30
business days of receipt of the request.
   (C)   The hearing shall be held at an Agency designated location. The Agency
shall mail to the claimant a written notice of the time and place of the
hearing no less than five days prior to the hearing.
   (D)   Hearings conducted pursuant to this chapter shall be conducted before
a hearing officer designated by the Agency. All hearings shall be
electronically recorded. Hearings need not be conducted according to the
California Code of Evidence. Hearsay evidence may be used for the purpose of
supplementing or explaining any direct evidence, but shall not be sufficient in
itself to support a finding unless it would be admissible over objection in
civil actions in courts of competent jurisdiction in this state. Any relevant
evidence shall be admitted if it is the type of evidence on which reasonable
persons are accustomed to rely in the conduct of serious affairs, regardless of
the existence of any common law or statutory rule which might make improper the
admission of such evidence over objection in civil actions in courts of
competent jurisdiction in this state. Irrelevant and unduly repetitious
evidence shall be excluded. The parties shall equally bear the expense of the
Hearing Officer and the cost of the hearing. Each party shall bear its own
expense.
   (E)   At the hearing, the Agency has the burden of proof and may present
evidence as to why such action should be taken and to answer the evidence
presented by the permittee.
   (F)   A written decision by the hearing officer shall be issued within ten
business days and notice given by mail. Service of the decision shall be deemed
complete at the time deposited in the mail.
(Ord. 923, § 2 (part), 2014)
§ 11.09.038 APPEALS.
   The permittee may file a written appeal with the Board of Supervisors within
ten days of receipt of the issuance of the Agency’s written decision by
certified mail. A copy of the written appeal must also be served to the Agency
either in person or by certified return receipt mail within ten days of receipt
of the issuance of the Agency’s written decision by certified mail. Appeals
will be heard at a meeting scheduled by the Board of Supervisors. The Board of
Supervisor’s decision shall be final. The permittee may appeal to the board of
Supervisors within ten days of receipt of the Agency’s written decision. The
appeal must be in writing and served on the Clerk of the Board and the Agency
either in person or by certified return receipt mail. Appeals will be heard at
a meeting scheduled by the Board of Supervisors. The Board of Supervisor’s
decision shall be final.
(Ord. 923, § 2 (part), 2014)
§ 11.09.039 EMERGENCY ACTION.
   The Agency may reduce the period of time for compliance under a suspension
or revocation notice to no less than 24 hours and set the matter for hearing
immediately upon expiration of the period when the Agency makes written
preliminary findings that such action is necessary to protect the public
health, safety and welfare. When, as a result of such an emergency proceeding,
a permit is suspended or revoked, the permittee may request an additional
hearing at which the permittee will have the burden of establishing renewed
compliance justifying reinstatement of the permit. Such additional hearings
will be commenced within five days of the permittee’s request. The request for,
or the scheduling of, an additional hearing shall not stay operation of the
suspension or revocation order.
(Ord. 923, § 2 (part), 2014)
§ 11.09.040 DECISION.
   (A)   At the conclusion of the hearings, the Hearing Officer or the Board
shall promptly prepare a written determination of the issues presented and the
proposed findings. A copy of the decision shall be served on the parties by
certified return receipt mail. Service of the decision shall be deemed complete
at the time deposited in the mail.
   (B)   At the conclusion of the hearings, the Hearing Officer or the Board
shall promptly prepare a written determination of the issues presented and the
proposed findings. A copy of the decision shall be served on the parties by
mail. Service of the decision shall be deemed complete at the time deposited in
the mail.
(Ord. 923, § 2 (part), 2014)
§ 11.09.041 QUALITY IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM.
    To ensure that ambulances are operating in the best interest of the public
health and safety, and that permittee is utilizing properly trained staff, each
permittee will be required to have a quality improvement program that:
   (A)   Utilizes a physician, RN, or paramedic with field experience in
quality management to direct and coordinate quality improvement activities
(exceptions to this may be made on an individual basis by the Agency);
   (B)   Reviews patient care provided by their employees;
   (C)   Meets the requirements of the State Emergency Medical Services
Authority's quality improvement program contained in Cal. Code of Regulations,
Title 22;
   (D)   Identifies problems or issues regarding patient care and proposes
solutions for corrective action;
   (E)   Participates in the Agency's collection of data regarding quality of
patient care;
   (F)   Includes disciplinary procedures to be used when appropriate;
   (G)   Maintains a radio recording of all calls for BLS/ALS services
requested, all dispatch instructions given, and all communications between the
dispatch center and the unit until the run is completed. Recordings must be
stored for a period of at least 90 days;
   (H)   Ensures that all drivers have completed an emergency vehicle operation
course (EVOC) driver training course, or its equivalent, related to responding
to calls for emergency medical service that includes, but is not limited to,
the following didactic and practical components: legal aspects of the emergency
ambulance operation, the practice of defensive driving, accident avoidance,
principles of vehicle control, routine vehicle safety checks, breaking and
stopping, acceleration, and steering;
   (I)   Requires the use of the Agency's designated prehospital care report,
the unusual occurrence form, and/or other approved reports that include all
required data elements for all emergency medical responses including refusal of
service and against medical advice (AMA);
   (J)   Requires staff to attend, at no expense to the county, EMS
orientation, and other education and training programs as may be reasonably
requested by the agency;
   (K)   Is consistent with the agency's quality improvement plan;
   (L)   Permittees, or a designated employee(s), shall actively participate on
any committees, at the request of the Agency, to provide for continued system
performance; and
   (M)   Documentation outlining the quality improvement program is to be
submitted to the Agency as part of the application process.
(Ord. 923, § 2 (part), 2014; Ord. 977, § 12, 2019)
§ 11.09.042 CCT QUALITY IMPROVEMENT PLAN.
   Critical care transport ambulance companies are additionally responsible for
submitting a quality improvement plan according to the specifications in the
county’s CCT policy.
(Ord. 923, § 2 (part), 2014)
§ 11.09.043 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   When the Agency has determined that adequate emergency ambulance
service will not be available from existing ambulance providers, this chapter
may be waived at the request of the county’s designated communications center,
any law enforcement agency, or fire protection agency during any “state of war
emergency”, “state of emergency”, or “local emergency” as defined in Cal. Gov’t
Code § 8558. Exemptions may be made for a period not over 30 days, but
renewable every 30 days.
   (B)   This chapter shall not prevent any peace officer from arranging for
the transportation of an individual in need of emergency medical care when no
ambulance with an appropriate ambulance service permit is available and such
transportation is required immediately for the preservation of life or to avoid
substantial impairment of the person to be transported. (13 CCR § 1107[a][2]).
(Ord. 923, § 2 (part), 2014)
§ 11.09.044 MEDICAL DIRECTION.
   All EMT and paramedic personnel working in San Benito County for the 9-1-
1 contract ambulance are required to provide patient care in accordance with
medical care policies, procedures and protocols promulgated by the EMS medical
director. All other EMT and paramedic personnel shall adhere to their standard
scope of practice as defined by Title 22 and/or under policies, procedures and
protocols approved by their agency’s medical director.
(Ord. 923, § 2 (part), 2014)
§ 11.09.045 EMS SPECIAL EVENT NOTIFICATION.
    Permittees providing special event standby coverage shall complete an EMS
special event notification form. This form shall be submitted to the Agency for
approval at least seven days prior to the beginning of the coverage. The Agency
may impose conditions on the approval of the request, which are necessary to
ensure the safety of the public according to the Agency's EMS coverage for
planned events and/or mass gatherings policy. This provision shall help to
ensure that adequate and integrated emergency medical services are available to
the public and event participants. Any unauthorized standby service by a
private EMS service, whether or not transportation is provided, may result in a
fine, permit suspension, or revocation.
(Ord. 923, § 2 (part), 2014; Ord. 977, § 13, 2019)
§ 11.09.046 EMERGENCY AND DISASTER OPERATIONS.
   (A)   In the event of a disaster or mass casualty incident, the ability of
the 9-1-1 ambulance service to provide necessary prehospital emergency
ambulance care and transportation may be disrupted or be inadequate for the
number of casualties. It is necessary; therefore, that all ambulances permitted
in San Benito County be available to assist when there is a disaster or mass
casualty incident. In the event of a disaster or mass casualty incident, the
Agency will determine the amount of assistance needed, acceptable ambulance
staffing and configuration, and may authorize the dispatch of any ambulance as
permitted by law. Each service shall make available, and place into service
whenever possible, all permitted units at the request of the Agency. The Agency
shall coordinate all medical mutual aid requests through the county’s
designated communications center, the medical mutual aid system, and the
Medical Health Operational Area Coordinator (MHOAC).
   (B)   The permittee shall have on file with the Agency, its disaster
response plan which includes a personnel call-back plan.
   (C)   All management and field personnel of the permittee shall follow the
Agency’s multi casualty incident (MCI) plan.
   (D)   The county may assist the permittee in seeking reimbursement for its
costs from any disaster relief monies. The county shall have no financial
responsibility for these costs or charges.
   (E)   When requested by the Agency, the permittee shall participate in a
county organized disaster exercise. All costs associated with their
participation in the disaster exercise shall be the sole responsibility of the
permittee.
(Ord. 923, § 2 (part), 2014)
§ 11.09.047 CLINICAL EXPERIENCE PROGRAM.
   All BLS ambulance companies, in business more than one year, shall work with
the Agency to develop and maintain a program that provides clinical experience
to students enrolled in EMT training programs approved by the Agency.
(Ord. 923, § 2 (part), 2014)
§ 11.09.048 COUNTY LIABILITY.
   Unless expressly agreed in writing, the Agency and the County of San Benito
and its officers and employees shall not be liable for any permittee costs or
charges associated with compliance under this chapter or the rules or
regulations promulgated hereunder.
(Ord. 923, § 2 (part), 2014)
CHAPTER 11.11: FIRST 5 SAN BENITO
Section
   
11.11.001   Findings and purpose
   
11.11.002   Definitions
   
11.11.003   Establishment of Commission
   
11.11.004   Establishment of Trust Fund
   
11.11.005   Membership
   
11.11.006   Terms; appointment
   
11.11.007   Terms; staggered
   
11.11.008   Vacancies and removal
   
11.11.009   Chairperson; rules and regulations
   
11.11.010   Commission subject to Ralph M. Brown Act
   
11.11.011   Compensation
   
11.11.012   Duties
   
11.11.013   Advisory committee
   
11.11.014   Statement of economic interest
   
11.11.015   Legal status of the Commission
§ 11.11.001 FINDINGS AND PURPOSE.
   The San Benito County Board of Supervisors find as follows.
   (A)   The voters of the State of California passed the California Children
and Families First Act of 1998. The Act recognizes that there is a compelling
need in California to create and implement a comprehensive, collaborative and
integrated system of information and services to promote, support and optimize
early childhood development from the prenatal stage to five years of age.
   (B)   The act further recognizes that there is a compelling need in
California to ensure that early childhood development programs and services are
universally and continuously available for children until the beginning of
kindergarten. Proper parenting, nurturing and health care during these early
years will provide the means for California’s children to enter school in good
health, ready and able to learn and emotionally well developed.
   (C)   It is the intent of this chapter to facilitate the creation and
implementation of an integrated, comprehensive and collaborative system of
information and services to enhance optimal early childhood development. This
system should function as a network that promotes accessibility to all
information and services from any entry point into the system. It is further
the intent of this chapter to emphasize local decision making, to provide for
greater local flexibility in designing delivery systems and to eliminate
duplicate administrative systems.
   (D)   The California Children and Families First Act of 1998 provided for
funding through an excise tax on tobacco products in order to implement the
goals and objectives which are outlined in the Act itself. It is the further
intent of this chapter to create First 5 San Benito Commission and First 5 San
Benito Trust Fund in order to receive funding through the act and to implement
the goals and objectives outlined in the California Children and Families First
Act of 1998.
(1966 Code, § 5E-1) (Ord. 718, § 1(part); Ord. 726, § 1(part))
§ 11.11.002 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions apply.
   ACT. The California Children and Families First Act of 1998 ( Cal. Health
and Safety Code §§ 130100 et seq.).
   CALIFORNIA CHILDREN AND FAMILIES COMMISSION. The state’s Commission
established in accordance with Cal. Health and Safety Code § 130110.
   COMMISSION. First 5 San Benito.
   COUNTY STRATEGIC PLAN. The plan adopted by the Commission and submitted to
the California Children and Families First Commission, pursuant to Cal. Health
and Safety Code § 130140.
   TRUST FUND. The First 5 San Benito Trust Fund.
(1966 Code, § 5E-2) (Ord. 718, § 1(part); Ord. 726, § 1(part); Ord. 771, § 2)
§ 11.11.003 ESTABLISHMENT OF COMMISSION.
   There is established a commission to be known as First 5 San Benito.
(1966 Code, § 5E-3) (Ord. 718, § 1(part); Ord. 726, § 1(part); Ord. 771, § 3)
§ 11.11.004 ESTABLISHMENT OF TRUST FUND.
   There is established a county trust fund to be known as First 5 San Benito
Trust Fund.
(1966 Code, § 5E-4) (Ord. 718, § 1(part); Ord. 726, § 1(part); Ord. 771, § 4)
§ 11.11.005 MEMBERSHIP.
   (A)   The Commission shall consist of up to nine members each who shall
either reside or work within San Benito County.
   (B)   The membership shall consist of one member of the Board of
Supervisors, the Health and Human Services Agency Director, the county’s Health
Officer and up to six members who represent any of the following categories:
      (1)   Recipients of project services included in the county strategic
plan;
      (2)   Educators specializing in early childhood development;
      (3)   Representatives of a local child care resource or referral agency
or a local child care coordinating group;
      (4)   Representatives of a local organization for prevention or early
intervention for families at risk;
      (5)   Representatives of community-based organizations that have the goal
of promoting nurturing and early childhood development;
      (6)   Representatives of local school districts; and
      (7)   Representatives of local medical; pediatric or obstetric
associations or societies.
(1966 Code, § 5E-5) (Ord. 718, § 1(part); Ord. 726, § 1(part); Ord. 771, § 5;
Ord. 925, § 1, 2014)
§ 11.11.006 TERMS; APPOINTMENT.
   Commission members shall be appointed by the Board of Supervisors.
Commission members shall serve at the pleasure of the Board of Supervisors. The
term of office of each member shall be for three years until the appointment of
his or her successor.
(1966 Code, § 5E-6) (Ord. 718, § 1(part); Ord. 726, § 1(part))
§ 11.11.007 TERMS; STAGGERED.
   Excluding the Health and Human Services Director and the county’s Health
Officer, who shall serve ex-officio, the terms of office of the other five
Commission members shall be staggered. At the first meeting of the Commission,
these members shall classify themselves by lot so that two members shall have a
term of office for one year, two members shall have a term of office of two
years and one member shall have a term of office for three years.
(1966 Code, § 5E-7) (Ord. 718, § 1(part); Ord. 726, § 1(part))
§ 11.11.008 VACANCIES AND REMOVAL.
   (A)   A vacancy on the Commission shall occur automatically on the happening
of any of the following events before the expiration of the term:
      (1)   Removal of the incumbent for any reason;
      (2)   Death or resignation of the incumbent;
      (3)   Ceasing to meet any of the criteria for membership as specified in
§
11.11.005; or
      (4)   Absence from three regular or special meetings in any 12-month
period.
   (B)   The Secretary of the Commission shall certify the happening of any
vacating event to the Board of Supervisors. The Board of Supervisors may waive
any vacating event for any member of the Commission by majority vote of the
Board of Supervisors.
   (C)   The Board of Supervisors shall make interim appointments to fill
unexpired terms in the event of vacancies occurring during the term of members
of the Commission.
(1966 Code, § 5E-8) (Ord. 718, § 1(part); Ord. 726, § 1(part))
§ 11.11.009 CHAIRPERSON; RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The members of the Commission shall mutually elect a chairperson who shall
serve for a term of one year. The Commission shall make such rules and
regulations as are necessary to conduct its business.
(1966 Code, § 5E-9) (Ord. 718, § 1(part); Ord. 726, § 1(part))
§ 11.11.010 COMMISSION SUBJECT TO RALPH M. BROWN ACT.
   The meetings of the Commission and the Commission’s advisory committee are
subject to the open meeting laws contained in the Ralph M. Brown Act.
(1966 Code, § 5E-10) (Ord. 718, § 1(part); Ord. 726, § 1(part))
§ 11.11.011 COMPENSATION.
   The members of the Commission shall serve without compensation, but may
receive actual and necessary expenses as are incurred in carrying out of his or
her official duties, as such expenses are authorized by the Commission
consistent with the policies of the Board of Supervisors and the county’s
Auditor.
(1966 Code, § 5E-11) (Ord. 718, § 1(part); Ord. 726, § 1(part))
§ 11.11.012 DUTIES.
   First 5 San Benito is charged with the following duties:
   (A)   To annually prepare and pass a budget for the moneys in the First 5
San Benito Trust Fund;
   (B)   To administer the moneys in the First 5 San Benito Trust Fund in
accordance with an approved budget and consistent with the goals and objectives
of the Act;
   (C)   The adoption of an adequate and complete county strategic plan for the
support and improvement of early childhood development within the county as
outlined in the Act;
   (D)   To conduct at least one public hearing on its proposed county
strategic plan and to revise the plan as is necessary and appropriate;
   (E)   To review on an annual basis, the county strategic plan and to revise
the plan as is necessary and appropriate;
   (F)   To conduct at least one public hearing on its annual review of the
county strategic plan before any revisions to the plan are adopted;
   (G)   To submit its adopted county strategic plan, and any subsequent
revisions thereto, to the state’s Commission and to the Board of Supervisors;
   (H)   To prepare and adopt an annual audit and report pursuant to Cal.
Health and Safety Code § 130150. The Commission shall conduct, at least one
public hearing prior to adopting any annual audit and report;
   (I)   Make copies of its annual audits and reports available to members of
the general public on request and at no cost;
   (J)   To exercise all powers, duties and functions as consistent with
federal, state and local laws and with the policies of the Commission; and
   (K)   The county’s Commission shall measure the outcomes of county-funded
programs through the use of applicable, reliable indicators and review that
information on a periodic basis as part of the public review of its county
strategic plan.
(1966 Code, § 5E-12) (Ord. 718, § 1(part); Ord. 726, § 1(part); Ord. 737 § 2;
Ord. 771, § 6; Ord. 799, § 2)
§ 11.11.013 ADVISORY COMMITTEE.
   The Commission shall establish one or more advisory committees as needed to
provide technical and professional expertise and support for any of the duties
of the Commission, as specified in §
11.11.012, and the advisory committee shall make recommendations or reports, as
deemed necessary and appropriate, upon the direction of the Commission.
(1966 Code, § 5E-13) (Ord. 718, § 1(part); Ord. 726, § 1(part); Ord. 771, § 7)
§ 11.11.014 STATEMENT OF ECONOMIC INTEREST.
   The Commission members shall prepare and file the statement of economic
interest, as prescribed by the Board of Supervisors pursuant to the Fair
Political Practices Act (Cal. Gov’t Code §§ 87100 et seq.). Until the county’s
Conflict of Interest Code is amended, the Commission members shall complete and
file all schedules adopted by the county.
(1966 Code, § 5E-14) (Ord. 718, § 1(part); Ord. 726, § 1(part))
§ 11.11.015 LEGAL STATUS OF THE COMMISSION.
   First 5 San Benito shall be established as a legal public entity separate
from the County, and shall be subject to conditions, as specified pursuant to
Section 5, Division 108, § 130140.1 of the Cal. Health and Safety Code.
(Ord. 937, § 1, 2015)
CHAPTER 11.12: STANDARDS FOR BODY ART AND PIERCING
Section
   
11.12.001   Purpose
   
11.12.002   Definitions
   
11.12.003   Jurisdiction
   
11.12.004   Exemptions
   
11.12.005   Prohibitions
   
11.12.006   Permits
   
11.12.007   Registration
   
11.12.008   Transfer of permit or registration
   
11.12.009   Suspension of practitioner registration
   
11.12.010   Temporary events
   
11.12.011   Health and safety standards for establishments
   
11.12.012   Health and safety standards for equipment
   
11.12.013   Practitioner and patient hygiene
   
11.12.014   Record maintenance
   
11.12.015   Lower ear lobe piercing practice
   
11.12.016   Practitioner professional standards
   
11.12.017   Required notifications
   
11.12.018   Inspection and closure of establishments
   
11.12.019   Fees
   
11.12.020   Separability
   
11.12.021   Penalty
   
11.12.022   Effective date
§ 11.12.001 PURPOSE.
   This chapter is enacted to establish standards for the design, construction,
operation, and maintenance of body art and piercing establishments, to prevent
disease transmission, meet consumer expectations, and for establishing
standards in body art and body piercing establishments. It sets forth
regulations for the persons owning body art establishments, the individuals
performing body art and piercing procedures, and the establishments where body
art procedures are performed.
(Ord. 907, § 1 (part), 2012)
§ 11.12.002 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AFTERCARE. Written instructions given to the client, specific to the
procedure(s) rendered, on caring for the body art and surrounding area.
   ANTISEPTIC. An agent that destroys disease-causing microorganisms on human
skin or mucosa as approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, as
indicated in the label.
   BLOOD. Human blood or any human body fluid that may cause contamination.
   BODY ART. Physical body adornment using, but not limited to, the following
techniques: body piercing, tattooing, and permanent cosmetic tattooing.
   BODY ART ESTABLISHMENT. Any place or premise, whether public or private,
temporary or permanent in nature or location, where the practices of body art,
whether or not for profit, are performed.
   BODY PIERCING. Creation of an opening in the body of a human being for the
purpose of inserting jewelry or other decoration. This includes, but is not
limited to, piercing of an ear, lip, tongue, nose or eyebrow as defined in the
Cal. Health and Safety Code.
   CONTAMINATED WASTE. Any material to be disposed of that has been soiled by
blood or other potentially infectious material in the process of tattooing,
body piercing, or the application of permanent cosmetics.
   DISINFECTION. The destruction of disease-causing microorganisms on inanimate
objects or surfaces, thereby rendering the objects safe for use or handling.
   EQUIPMENT. All machinery, including fixtures, containers, vessels, tools,
devices, implements, furniture, display and storage areas, sinks, and all other
apparatus and appurtenances used in the operation of a body art establishment.
   ESTABLISHMENT PLAN. A drawing of the establishment’s layout illustrating the
requirements of this chapter.
   EXPOSURE CONTROL PLAN. A written plan, applying to all those who perform
tattooing, application of permanent cosmetics, or body piercing within a
facility pursuant to Cal/OSHA (Cal. Code of Regulations) Title 8, § 3204 9(e)
and § 5193 Blood Borne Pathogens and Federal OSHA 29 CFR 1910.1030. It is
designed to eliminate or minimize employee and client exposure to blood borne
pathogens and other communicable diseases.
   HOT WATER. Water at least 120°F or as specified by the local building
authority.
   JEWELRY. Any personal ornament inserted into a newly pierced area in a
person’s body.
   LIQUID CHEMICAL GERMICIDE. A disinfectant or sanitizer registered with the
Environmental Protection Agency.
   LOCAL ENFORCEMENT AGENCY (LEA). The San Benito County Department of
Environmental Health and its designated employees, or other designated agents.
   OWNER. Includes a lessee and every person who operates, controls or has
custody of any place of business or employment.
   PERMANENT COSMETICS. The application of pigments to or under the skin of a
human being for the purpose of permanently changing the color or other
appearance of the skin. This includes, but is not limited to eyebrows,
permanent eyeliner, eye shadow, or lip color, as defined in the Cal. Health and
Safety Code § 119300(c).
   PERMIT. Written approval by the Local Enforcement Agency to operate a body
art establishment. Approval is given in accordance with these standards, and is
separate from any other licensing requirements that may exist within the local
jurisdiction.
   PERSON. Any individual, partnership, corporation, or association.
   PRACTITIONER. Any individual who controls, operates, manages, conducts or
practices body art activities at a body art establishment. The term includes
practitioners who work under the direction of the operator and perform body art
activities.
   PROCEDURE SURFACE. The surface area of furniture or accessories that may
come into contact with the client’s clothed or unclothed body during a body art
procedure. PROCEDURE SURFACE also means the area of the client’s skin where the
body art procedure is to be performed and the surrounding area of the skin.
   REMODEL. Any change to the current body art establishment requiring either a
building or trades permit for the work to proceed. REMODEL does not include
changes to the front desk area, waiting area, painting, wallpapering, or
carpeting, even if a permit is otherwise required. Adding a new workstation,
plumbing changes, or expanding into an adjacent space to add workstations are
examples of remodeling. REMODELING also means any changes to an establishment
plan previously submitted to the Local Enforcement Agency.
   SANITIZATION. Effective bactericidal and virucidal treatment of equipment
and surfaces by a process that is effective in destroying pathogens and has
been approved by the LEA. This is not the same as sterilization.
   SHARPS. Any device having acute edges, or protuberances capable of cutting
or piercing the skin, which has been used in the performance of body art,
permanent cosmetics or body piercing, including but not limited to the
following: tattoo needles, disposable piercing needles, disposable razors.
   SHARPS CONTAINER. A puncture-resistant, leak-proof container that can be
closed for handling, storage, transportation and disposal of “sharps” waste.
The SHARPS CONTAINER shall be labeled with the international biohazard symbol
as defined in the Medical Waste Management Act of the Cal. Health and Safety
Code.
   SINGLE USE. Products or items intended for one time use and are disposed of
after use on each client. Examples of SINGLE USE items include cotton swabs or
balls, tissues or paper products, paper or plastic cups, gauze and sanitary
coverings, razors, piercing needles, tattoo needles, scalpel blades, stencils,
ink cups, and protective gloves.
   STANDARD PRECAUTIONS. A set of guidelines and controls, published by the
Center for Disease Control (CDC) as “guidelines for prevention of transmission
of human immunodeficiency virus and hepatitis B virus to health-care and public
safety workers. (1)” This method of infection control  requires the employer
and the employee to assume that all human blood and specified human body fluids
are infectious for HIV, HVB and other blood pathogens. Precautions include hand
washing, using gloves, personal protective equipment, injury prevention, and
proper handling and disposal of needles, other sharp instruments, and blood and
body fluid contaminated products.
   STERILIZATION. A process resulting in the destruction of all forms of
microbial life, including highly resistant bacterial spores.
   TATOOING. Any method of placing ink or other pigments into or under the skin
or mucosa with needles or any other instruments used to puncture the skin,
resulting in permanent coloration of the skin or mucosa. This includes all
forms of cosmetic tattooing, as defined in the Cal. Health and Safety Code.
   TEMPORARY EVENT. Any place or premises operating at a fixed location where
an operator performs body art procedures for no more than 21 days in
conjunction with a single event or celebration.
(Ord. 907, § 1 (part), 2012)
§ 11.12.003 JURISDICTION.
   (A)   This chapter shall be applicable to the unincorporated area of the
County of San Benito, and shall be administered by the San Benito County
Department of Environmental Health, within the unit designated as the Local
Enforcement Agency (LEA)
   (B)   This chapter shall apply to all individuals performing body art
procedures and all body art establishments located within the County of San
Benito where the chapter applies. This chapter is not intended to preempt any
local zoning or health ordinances applicable to body art establishments.
(Ord. 907, § 1 (part), 2012)
§ 11.12.004 EXEMPTIONS.
   This chapter shall not apply to: Board-certified medical or dental personnel
that tattoo or pierce as part of a medical or dental procedure or to any
individuals piercing only the outer perimeter or lobe of the ear using a pre-
sterilized single use stud and clasp ear-piercing system.
(Ord. 907, § 1 (part), 2012)
§ 11.12.005 PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   No person shall own or operate a body art establishment in violation
of any state or federal law.
   (B)   No person shall own or operate a body art establishment within all
areas of San Benito County where the chapter applies without a current valid
permit to operate.
   (C)   No permittee shall allow an individual who does not possess a valid
registration to perform body art procedures at that establishment.
   (D)   No individual shall perform body art procedures without a valid
registration.
   (E)   No individual shall perform body art procedures in violation of any
state or federal law.
   (F)   No individual shall perform body art procedures at any place other
than a permitted body art establishment.
   (G)   No permittee or individual shall perform body art (tattooing) or
permanent cosmetic procedures without complying with the ordinance set forth in
this chapter.
   (H)   No individual shall perform body piercing procedures in violation of
the standards set forth in this chapter.
(Ord. 907, § 1 (part), 2012)
§ 11.12.006 PERMITS.
   All applicants for a permit to operate a body art establishment shall submit
to the Local Enforcement Agency all of the following:
   (A)   Completed application form.
   (B)   Establishment plans in sufficient detail to ascertain compliance with
conditions in this chapter.
   (C)   An exposure control plan.
   (D)   Such other information as the LEA determines is necessary for
implementation of this chapter; and
   (E)   Any applicable fees.
   (F)   Permits are valid for one year and shall be renewed annually.
   (G)   Permits must be prominently displayed within the body art
establishment.
(Ord. 907, § 1 (part), 2012)
§ 11.12.007 REGISTRATION.
   All practitioners shall submit to the Local Enforcement Agency all of the
following:
   (A)   The completed registration form;
   (B)   Current proof of successful completion of LEA approved courses on
bloodborne pathogens and prevention of disease transmission as set forth in
Cal. OSHA (Cal. Code of Regulations) Title 8, § 5193 and Federal OSHA 29 CFR
1910.1030;
   (C)   Such other information as the LEA determines is necessary for
compliance with this chapter;
   (D)   Show certification of vaccination for hepatitis B; and
   (E)   Pay any applicable fees.
(Ord. 907, § 1 (part), 2012)
§ 11.12.008 TRANSFER OF PERMIT OR REGISTRATION.
   A permit or registration shall not be transferable as to person or place.
(Ord. 907, § 1 (part), 2012)
§ 11.12.009 SUSPENSION OF PRACTITIONER REGISTRATION.
   (A)   An individual’s registration may be suspended for just cause, as set
forth in division (B) below, upon a finding by the Local Enforcement Agency,
after notice and opportunity to be heard, that:
      (1)   After the registration was issued it was determined that the
application for the registration is incomplete or inaccurate; or
      (2)   The individual has violated this chapter or any federal or state
related law.
   (B)   The time period for suspension of registration shall be based on the
following criteria:
      (1)   Upon the first time that the LEA makes the finding that either (A)
(1) or (A)(2) exist, the registration shall be suspended for up to 30 days.
      (2)   Upon the second time that the LEA makes the finding set forth in
division (A)(1) and (A)(2) within 12 months of the first determination, the
registration shall be suspended for up to 90 days.
      (3)   Upon the third and each subsequent time that the LEA makes the
finding set forth in division (A)(1) and (A)(2) within 12 months of the prior
determination, the registration shall be suspended for up to one year.
   (C)   The decision of the LEA may be appealed to the Director of Health and
Human Services or his or her designee.
(Ord. 907, § 1 (part), 2012)
§ 11.12.010 TEMPORARY EVENTS.
   Temporary body art establishments and individuals conducting body art
procedures at a temporary event must meet all requirements of this chapter.
Permit applications for temporary events shall be submitted to the Local
Enforcement Agency at a minimum of 14 working days prior to the start of the
event. Temporary event permits shall be issued for the specific days and hours
of operation specified on the application and approved by the LEA.
(Ord. 907, § 1 (part), 2012)
§ 11.12.011 HEALTH AND SAFETY STANDARDS FOR ESTABLISHMENTS.
   All establishments must meet the following structural standards in order to
qualify for a permit to operate:
   (A)   Any new or remodeled establishment shall obtain the appropriate
planning and building permits from the local building authority if applicable.
   (B)   A minimum of 45 square feet of floor space for must be provided for
each procedure area. The procedure area(s) must be separated from the retail
sales area, hair salon area, or any other area that may cause potential cross-
contamination of work surfaces. Items such as dividers, curtains, or partitions
shall separate multiple procedure areas.
   (C)   Each establishment shall have a readily accessible hand sink, separate
from the public or employees restroom, which is equipped with:
      (1)   Hot and cold running water under pressure.
      (2)   Non hand operated faucet controls such as wrist or foot operated.
      (3)   Liquid hand soap.
      (4)   Single use paper towels.
      (5)   An “approved” waste receptacle.
   (D)   Every body art establishment shall have at least one available
bathroom equipped with a toilet and a hand lavatory. The hand lavatory shall be
supplied with:
      (1)   Hot and cold running water under pressure.
      (2)   Liquid hand soap.
      (3)   Single use paper towels.
      (4)   An “approved” waste receptacle.
      (5)   An automatic self-closing door.
      (6)   Adequate ventilation.
   (E)   The body art establishment shall have an artificial light source
equivalent to 20 foot-candles at three feet above the floor. At least 100 foot-
candles of light shall be provided at the level where body art procedures are
performed, where sterilization takes place, and where instruments and sharps
are assembled.
   (F)   All procedure surfaces shall be smooth, nonabsorbent and easily
cleanable. Procedure surfaces shall be cleaned and sanitized after each client.
   (G)   All ceilings shall be in good condition and repair.
   (H)   All walls and floors shall be free of open holes or cracks and
washable.
   (I)   All facilities shall be maintained in good working order.
   (J)   All facilities shall be maintained in a clean and sanitary condition.
   (K)   No establishment shall be used or occupied for living or sleeping
quarters.
   (L)   Only service animals or service animals in training may be allowed in
the establishment. No animals shall be allowed in the procedure area(s).
   (M)   Effective measures shall be taken by the operator to prevent entrance,
breeding, and harborage of insects, vermin, and rodents in the establishment.
   (N)   No smoking shall be allowed inside of establishment or procedure area
pursuant to Cal. Labor Code § 6404.5.
   (O)   A copy of this chapter shall be available at all times on the
premises.
(Ord. 907, § 1 (part), 2012)
§ 11.12.012 HEALTH AND SAFETY STANDARDS FOR EQUIPMENT.
   All equipment and instruments must be maintained and operated in accordance
with the following procedures:
   (A)   All jewelry used as part of a piercing procedure shall be sterilized
before use. All reusable instruments shall be thoroughly washed to remove all
organic matter, rinsed, and sterilized before and after use. All needles shall
be single use needles and sterilized before use. All sterilization shall be
conducted using steam heat. Steam heat sterilization units shall be operated
according to the manufacturer’s specifications.
   (B)   At least once a month, but not to exceed 30 days between tests, a
spore test shall be conducted on the sterilizer to ensure that it is working
properly. If a positive spore test result is received, the sterilizer cannot be
used until a negative result is obtained.
   (C)   Jewelry must be made of surgical implant grade stainless steel, solid
14k or 18k white or yellow gold, niobium, titanium or platinum, and/or a dense
low-porosity plastic. Jewelry must be free of nicks, scratches or irregular
surfaces and must be properly sterilized prior to use.
   (D)   All inks, dyes, and other pigments shall be specifically manufactured
for tattoo procedures and FDA approved. The mixing of approved inks, dyes, or
pigments, or their dilution with distilled water or alcohol is acceptable.
   (E)   Immediately before applying a tattoo or permanent cosmetic, the
quantity of the dye used shall be transferred from the dye bottle and placed
into single use paper or plastic cups. Upon completion of the application,
these single use cups and their contents shall be discarded.
   (F)   All tables, chairs, furniture or other procedure surfaces that may be
exposed to blood or body fluids during the tattooing or piercing procedure
shall be constructed of stainless steel, or other suitable material that will
allow complete sanitization, and shall be sanitized between uses with a liquid
chemical germicide.
   (G)   Single use towels or wipes shall be provided to the client. These
towels shall be dispensed in a manner that precludes contamination and disposed
of in a cleanable garbage container with a liner.
   (H)   All bandages and surgical dressings used shall be sterile or bulk-
packaged clean and stored in a clean, closed container.
   (I)   All equipment and instruments shall be maintained in good working
order and in a clean and sanitary condition.
   (J)   All instruments and supplies shall be stored clean and dry in covered
containers.
(Ord. 907, § 1 (part), 2012)
§ 11.12.013 PRACTITIONER AND PATIENT HYGIENE.
   (A)   Skin preparation:
      (1)   Whenever it is necessary to shave the skin, a new disposable razor
must be used for each client.
      (2)   The skin area subject to a body art procedure must be thoroughly
cleaned with soap and water, rinsed thoroughly, and swabbed with an antiseptic
solution. Only single use towels or wipes shall be used in the skin cleaning
process.
      (3)   No body art procedure shall be performed on any area of the skin
where there is an evident infection, irritation, or open wound.
   (B)   Hand washing and hygiene:
      (1)   Each practitioner shall scrub his or her hands and wrists
thoroughly for 20 seconds before and after performing a body art procedure.
      (2)   Practitioners with skin infections of the hand shall not perform
body art procedures.
      (3)   The practitioner must wash his or her hands after contact with the
client receiving the procedure or after contact with potentially contaminated
articles.
      (4)   Practitioners shall wear clean clothing and use a disposable
barrier such as a lap cloth when performing body art procedures.
      (5)   For each client, single use disposable barriers shall be provided
on all equipment used as part of the procedure that cannot be sterilized.
Examples may include, but not limited to spray bottles, procedure light fixture
handles, and tattoo machines.
      (6)   Practitioners shall not smoke, eat, or drink while performing body
art procedures.
   (C)   The use of gloves:
      (1)   Single use gloves of adequate size and quality as to preserve
dexterity shall be used for touching clients, for handling sterile instruments,
or for handling blood or body fluids.
      (2)   Gloves must be changed if:
         (a)   They become soiled or damaged;
         (b)   They come in contact with any non-clean surface or objects; or
         (c)   They come in contact with a third person.
         (d)   Gloves shall be discarded after the completion of a procedure on
a client.
         (e)   Hands and wrists must be washed before putting on a clean pair
of gloves and after removing a pair of gloves.
         (f)   Gloves shall not be reused.
   (D)   Proper handling and disposal of medical waste:
      (1)   Contaminated waste that may release liquid blood or body fluids
when compressed or that may release dried blood or body fluids when handled,
must be placed in an approved “red” bag that is marked with the international
biohazard symbol. It must be disposed of by a licensed medical waste hauler at
an approved site, or at a minimum, in accordance with the requirements
contained in the California Medical Waste Management Act.
      (2)   Waste that does not release any liquid blood or bodily fluids when
compressed or handled, may be placed in a covered receptacle and disposed of
through normal, solid waste disposal methods.
      (3)   Sharps ready for disposal shall be disposed of in approved sharps
container as specified in the California Medical Waste Management Act.
      (4)   Storage of contaminated waste on-site shall not exceed the period
specified in the California Medical Waste Management Act.
(Ord. 907, § 1 (part), 2012)
§ 11.12.014 RECORD MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   Practitioner information. Each body art establishment, for each
practitioner, shall keep on file for two years and available for inspection by
the LEA:
      (1)   Full name of practitioner;
      (2)   Home address;
      (3)   Home phone number;
      (4)   Date of birth;
      (5)   Identification photo;
      (6)   Proof of a valid LEA registration; and
      (7)   Proof of approved bloodborne pathogen course, pursuant to Section:
   (B)   Client information. The body art establishment operator shall maintain
proper records for each client. The records of the procedure shall be kept for
two years and shall be available for inspection by the Local Enforcement Agency
upon request. The records shall include the following:
      (1)   The date of the procedure;
      (2)   The appropriate consent forms;
      (3)   Record of information on picture identification showing name, age,
and current address of the client;
      (4)   The type of the body art procedure performed; and
      (5)   The name and registration number of the practitioner performing the
procedure.
   (C)   Establishment information. The following information shall be kept on
file for three years on the premises and available for inspection by the LEA:
      (1)   A description of all the body art procedures available to be
performed in the body art establishment.
      (2)   An inventory of instruments, body jewelry, sharps, and inks or
pigments used for all procedures including the names of manufacturers, serial
and lot numbers. Invoices or orders shall satisfy this requirement.
      (3)   Copies of spore tests conducted on the sterilizer and maintenance
records as per manufacturer’s guidelines.
(Ord. 907, § 1 (part), 2012)
§ 11.12.015 LOWER EAR LOBE PIERCING PRACTICE.
   (A)   The ear piercing gun shall be made from a material that can be
disinfected after every use.
   (B)   This instrument shall not be used in any other part of the body.
   (C)   Shall be capable of being reloaded without the need to touch the studs
that are sterile.
   (D)   Only sterile studs shall be used and shall not be handled by bare
hands.
   (E)   The owner of the facility where the lower ear lobe piercing is
performed shall notify the LEA if any type of body art including but not
limited to tattooing or permanent cosmetics is being performed by the lower ear
lobe practitioner in this facility.
(Ord. 907, § 1 (part), 2012)
§ 11.12.016 PRACTITIONER PROFESSIONAL STANDARDS.
   (A)   Client limitations. No practitioners shall perform body art procedures
on individuals with:
      (1)   Diabetes;
      (2)   A history of hemophilia;
      (3)   A history of skin diseases, skin lesions, or skin sensitivities to
soap or disinfectants;
      (4)   A history of allergies to metals;
      (5)   A history of epilepsy, seizures, fainting or narcolepsy;
      (6)   A condition where the client takes medications, such as
anticoagulants, that thin the blood and/or interferes with blood clotting;
      (7)   Any evidence of unhealthy conditions without the clearance by a
physician licensed under Cal. Business and Professions Code Chapter 5
(commencing with § 2000) of Division 2; or
      (8)   Any evidence to be under the influence of alcohol or controlled
substances.
      (9)   Any individual that is less than 18 years of age regardless of
parental consent. Violation of this requirement is a misdemeanor pursuant to
Cal. Penal Code § 652. This does not apply to emancipated minors. Nipple and
genital piercing is prohibited on minors regardless of parental or guardian
consent.
   (B)   Written consent. No practitioner may perform body art without the
client’s written consent. The consent form shall at a minimum state the
following information:
      (1)   That any tattoo or permanent cosmetic should be considered
permanent; it may only be removed with a surgical procedure; and any effective
removal may leave scarring; or
      (2)   That any piercing may leave scarring; and
      (3)   Complications such as allergic reactions, potential skin
infections, or other tissue damage may occur to the site where the piercing,
tattooing, or application of permanent cosmetic is to be performed.
   (C)   Aftercare. Practitioners shall provide each client with printed
instructions on recommended care of the body art during the healing process.
These instructions shall include information on when to seek medical treatment.
(Ord. 907, § 1 (part), 2012)
§ 11.12.017 REQUIRED NOTIFICATIONS.
   Permittee and individuals shall notify the Local Enforcement Agency
immediately of any information that they have or receive regarding potential
blood borne pathogen transmission.
(Ord. 907, § 1 (part), 2012)
§ 11.12.018 INSPECTION AND CLOSURE OF ESTABLISHMENTS.
   (A)   Access to premises and records. Any permittee or individual who is
operating a body art establishment shall, upon request of the Local Enforcement
Agency permit access to all parts of the establishment at any reasonable time,
for the purpose of inspection.
   (B)   Permittee or individual who is operating a body art establishment
shall allow review of any records necessary for the Local Enforcement Agency to
ascertain compliance to this chapter.
   (C)   No individual shall interfere with or hinder the Local Enforcement
Agency in the performance of its duties, or refuse to permit the LEA to make
such inspections pursuant to state law.
   (D)   Each permittee and individual shall correct or remove each violation
upon receipt of an inspection report giving notification of one or more
violations of this chapter in a reasonable length of time as determined by the
Local Enforcement Agency. Failure to remove or correct each violation within
the time period noted on the inspection report shall constitute a separate
violation of this chapter.
   (E)   The Local Enforcement Agency may order a permittee or individual to
discontinue all operations of the body art establishment, if any of the
following conditions exist.
      (1)   Failure to possess a permit required by this chapter;
      (2)   Evidence of a sewage backup in an area of the establishment where
body art activities are conducted;
      (3)   Lack of potable, plumbed, hot or cold water to the extent that hand
washing, or toilet facilities are not operational;
      (4)   Lack of electricity or gas service to the extent that hand washing,
lighting, or toilet facilities are not operational;
      (5)   Significant damage to the body art establishment due to tornado,
fire, flood, or other disasters;
      (6)   Evidence of an infestation of rodents or other vermin;
      (7)   Evidence of contamination, filthy conditions, untrained staff or
poor personal hygiene;
      (8)   Any time a public health nuisance exists;
      (9)   Using instruments or jewelry that are not sterile;
      (10)   Failure to maintain required records;
      (11)   Failure to use gloves as required;
      (12)   Failure to properly dispose of sharps, blood or body fluids, or
blood or body fluid contaminated items;
      (13)   Failure to properly report complaints of potential blood borne
pathogen transmission to the LEA; or
      (14)   Evidence of a positive spore test on the sterilizer.
   (F)   Reopening after closure. Permittee may only reopen the body art
establishment with written permission from the Local Enforcement Agency.
(Ord. 907, § 1 (part), 2012)
§ 11.12.019 FEES.
   The amount of any fee to be paid under this chapter shall be set forth in
the San Benito County General Fee Ordinance, Chapter 5.01, Article III,
Subarticle V, § 5.01.091. All fees shall be paid in the amount stated in the
fee schedule at the time of the actual payment of the fee. Applicable permits
and registrations are for the exclusive use of the applicant and are
nontransferable.
(Ord. 907, § 1 (part), 2012)
§ 11.12.020 SEPARABILITY.
   If any provision or application of this chapter is held invalid, that
invalidity shall not affect other provisions or applications of this chapter.
(Ord. 907, § 1 (part), 2012)
§ 11.12.021 PENALTY.
   Any individual who fails to register and/or violates the sterilization,
sanitation, and safety standards can be charged for a misdemeanor and subject
to a civil penalty of $500 per violation pursuant to the Cal. Health and Safety
Code § 119323 provided if he/she;
   (A)   Violates this chapter;
   (B)   Permits a violation to exist on the premises under his or her control;
   (C)   Fails to take action to abate the existence of the violation(s) within
a specified time period, when ordered or notified to do so by the LEA; or
   (D)   Upon findings that any individual does not have a valid registration
and performs body art procedures as specified above.
(Ord. 907, § 1 (part), 2012)
§ 11.12.022 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This ordinance shall take effect and be in force 30 days after the date of
its passage and approval. Prior to the expiration of 15 days from the final
passage hereof, the Clerk of the San Benito County Board of Supervisors shall
cause this ordinance to be published in a newspaper of general circulation in
the County of San Benito.
(Ord. 907, § 1 (part), 2012)
CHAPTER 11.15: PERSONAL CULTIVATION OF CANNABIS
Section
   
11.15.010   Authority and title
   
11.15.020   Findings and purpose
   
11.15.030   Definitions
   
11.15.040   Nuisance declared; prohibition on cultivation
   
11.15.050   Nuisance Abatement Authority
   
11.15.060   No duty to enforce
   
11.15.070   Duty of owners and occupants; no unlawful activity permitted
   
11.15.080   Other nuisance
   
11.15.090   Administrative civil penalties
   
11.15.095   Notices
   
11.15.100   Service of notices
   
11.15.105   Recordation of notices
   
11.15.110   Administrative hearing
   
11.15.115   Enforcement of abatement order
   
11.15.120   Liability for abatement costs and/or administrative penalties;
interest
   
11.15.125   Lien hearing; alternative lien hearing procedure
   
11.15.130   No vested or non-conforming rights
   
11.15.140   Severability
   
11.15.145   Fees
   
11.15.150   Enforcement by civil action
   
11.15.160   Summary abatement
   
11.15.170   Remedies cumulative
   
11.15.180   No criminal penalty
§ 11.15.010 AUTHORITY AND TITLE.
   Pursuant to the authority granted by Article XI, Section 7 of the California
Constitution, Cal. Health and Safety Code §§
11362.2(b), 11362.777(g), and 11362.83, and Cal. Gov’t Code §§ 25845 and
53069.4, the Board of Supervisors does enact this Chapter, which shall be known
and may be cited as the “San Benito County Personal Cultivation of Cannabis
Ordinance.”
(Ord. 949, § 2(part), 2016; Ord. 959, § 3, 2017)
§ 11.15.020 FINDINGS AND PURPOSE.
   (A)   California's medicinal cannabis laws, the Compassionate Use Act (Cal.
Health and Safety Code § 11362.5), the Medical Marijuana Program (Cal. Health
and Safety Code §§ 11362.7 et seq.), and the Medical and Adult-Use Cannabis
Regulation and Safety Act (Cal. Business and Professions Code §§ 26000 et
seq.), each recognize and preserve the authority of cities and counties under §
7 of Article XI of the California Constitution to enact and enforce reasonable
regulations for the cultivation of medicinal cannabis and non-medicinal
cannabis (sometimes referred to as "recreational marijuana" or "recreational
cannabis").
   (B)   The county's unique geographic and climatic conditions, which include
areas of prime agricultural land, along with a minimal population in many areas
of the county, provide conditions that are favorable to cannabis cultivation.
There have been multiple cannabis grows located within the county within the
last year.
   (C)   The limited immunity from specified state cannabis laws provided by
the Compassionate Use Act and Medical Marijuana Program does not confer the
right to create or maintain a public nuisance. By adopting the regulations
contained in this chapter, the county will achieve a significant reduction in
the aforementioned harms caused or threatened by the unregulated cultivation of
cannabis in the unincorporated area of San Benito County.
   (D)   (1)   Local cannabis cultivation regulations have been upheld in other
parts of the state, including by the California Court of Appeal in Browne v.
County of Tehama (2013) 213 Cal. App. 4th 704. In that case, the Court
specifically held that "[n]either the Compassionate Use Act nor the Medical
Marijuana Program grants . . . anyone . . . an unfettered right to cultivate
marijuana for medical purposes. Accordingly, the regulation of cultivation of
medical marijuana does not conflict with either statute."
      (2)   Similarly, in City of Riverside v. Inland Empire Patients Health
and Wellness Center, Inc. (2013) 56 Cal. 4th 729, the California Supreme Court
concurred that nothing in the CUA or the MMP expressly or impliedly limits the
inherent authority of a local jurisdiction, by its own ordinances, to regulate
the use of its land.
   (E)   The unregulated cultivation of medicinal or non-medicinal cannabis in
the unincorporated area of San Benito County can adversely affect the health,
safety, and well-being of the county and its residents. Comprehensive
regulation of premises used for cannabis cultivation is proper and necessary to
avoid the risks of criminal activity, degradation of the natural environment,
malodorous smells, and indoor electrical fire hazards that may result from
unregulated cannabis cultivation, and that are especially significant if the
cultivation occurs outdoors, or if the amount of cannabis cultivated on a
single premises is not regulated and substantial amounts of cannabis are
thereby allowed to be concentrated in one place.
   (F)   Cultivation of cannabis has been associated with serious harmful
effects in the areas where cultivation sites are located, to owners of property
in such areas, and to people living, visiting, conducting business or otherwise
present in the area, as reported by numerous other California counties and
cities. Harmful effects at both outdoor and indoor cultivation operations have
included an increase in criminal activity because of the high monetary value of
the cannabis plants, adverse environmental impacts, noise pollution from
generators, interference with farming practices, fire danger from grow light
systems and cannabis oil extraction operations, excessive energy consumption,
and strong offensive odors.
   (G)   The cultivation of cannabis outdoors, where it is often readily
observable by neighbors and the general public, increases the risk of
trespassing and burglary, and acts of violence in connection with the
commission of such crimes or the occupants' attempts to prevent such crimes.
Outdoor cultivation further makes the premises more prone to act as an
attractive nuisance for children, and increases the likelihood of offensive
odors traveling off the premises. Additionally, experience in San Benito County
and elsewhere demonstrates that outdoor cultivation of cannabis is often
associated with violations of local, state, and federal environmental laws and
pesticide regulations, threatening harm to local waterways and groundwater
quality, and endangering the public health and safety. To adequately protect
the public health, safety, and welfare, it is proper and necessary to limit the
outdoor cultivation of cannabis within the unincorporated area of San Benito
County.
   (H)   The previous provisions of
Chapter 11.15, which allowed limited outdoor cultivation of cannabis, did not
fully mitigate these adverse effects. Prohibiting the personal cultivation of
cannabis outdoors is proper and necessary to avoid the aforementioned harms,
and to protect the health, safety, and welfare of the residents and businesses
within the unincorporated territory of the county.
   (I)   The indoor cultivation of cannabis within a residence or other
structure used or intended for human occupancy presents potential health and
safety risks to those living in the residence or otherwise occupying the
structure, especially to children, including but not limited to, increased risk
of fire from grow light systems, exposure to fertilizers, pesticides, anti-
fungus/mold agents, and exposure to potential property crimes. One goal of this
chapter is to reduce or mitigate these risks by limiting the number of plants
which may be cultivated indoors at any one location.
   (J)   Cannabis that is grown indoors may require excessive use of
electricity, which often is obtained or connected illegally, and which may
overload standard electrical systems creating an unreasonable risk of fire. If
indoor grow lighting systems are powered by diesel generators, improper
maintenance of the generators and fuel lines and the improper storage and
disposal of diesel fuel and waste oil may create an unreasonable risk of fire
and pollution.
   (K)   Cultivation of any amount of cannabis at locations or premises within
1,000 feet of schools, school bus stops, school evacuation sites, churches,
parks, child care centers, or youth-oriented facilities creates unique risks
that the cannabis plants may be observed by juveniles, and therefore be
especially vulnerable to theft or recreational consumption by juveniles.
Further, the potential for criminal activities associated with cannabis
cultivation in such locations poses heightened risks that juveniles will be
involved or endangered. Therefore, cultivation of any amount of cannabis in
such locations or premises is especially hazardous to public health, safety,
and welfare, and to the protection of children and the person(s) cultivating
the cannabis plants. To adequately address these risks, it is proper and
necessary that requests to cultivate cannabis in such locations be considered
on a case-by-case basis through a waiver process administered by the San Benito
County Resources Management Agency.
   (L)   The cultivation or other concentration of cannabis in any location or
premises without adequate security increases the risk that surrounding homes or
businesses may be negatively impacted by nuisance activity such as loitering or
crime.
   (M)   The cultivation of cannabis upon vacant lots (i.e., premises without a
permitted residential use) presents a heightened risk of the harms that
Chapter 11.15 was designed to prevent, including criminal activity, degradation
of the natural environment, malodorous smells, and indoor electrical fire
hazards, due to the absence of an onsite caretaker eligible to cultivate
cannabis in accordance with state law. Cannabis cultivation upon vacant lots is
more likely to violate the registration, setback, plant limit, security, and
location requirements of this chapter than cannabis cultivated accessory to a
permitted residential use, is more likely to be diverted to unlawful use, and
is less likely to serve the legitimate needs of persons cultivating cannabis in
accordance with state law. Limiting the cultivation of cannabis to premises
that contain a permitted residential use is proper and necessary to avoid the
aforementioned harms, and to protect the health, safety, and welfare of the
residents and businesses within the unincorporated area of the county.
   (N)   It is the purpose and intent of this chapter to implement state law by
providing a means for regulating the cultivation of cannabis in a manner that
is consistent with state law and which balances the interests of persons
choosing to cultivate and use cannabis and promotes the health, safety, and
welfare of the residents and businesses within the unincorporated area of the
county. This chapter is intended to be consistent with California's cannabis
laws, including the Medicinal and Adult-Use Cannabis Regulation and Safety Act,
and towards that end, is not intended to prohibit persons from individually or
jointly exercising any right otherwise granted by state law. Rather, the intent
and purpose of this chapter is to establish reasonable regulations upon the
manner in which cannabis may be cultivated, including restrictions on the
amount of cannabis that may be individually or jointly cultivated in any
location or premises, in order to protect the public health, safety, and
welfare in San Benito County.
   (O)   In order to ensure compliance with the regulations set forth in the
personal cultivation of cannabis chapter, facilitate enforcement in the event
of noncompliance, and reduce hazards to emergency and other public agency
personnel responding to premises where cannabis is cultivated, it is
reasonable, proper, and necessary to require that all premises where cannabis
is cultivated register annually with the San Benito County Resources Management
Agency.
   (P)   Neither California's medicinal cannabis laws nor the non-medicinal
cannabis laws confer the right to create or maintain a public nuisance. By
adopting the regulations contained in this chapter, the county will achieve a
significant reduction in the aforementioned harms caused or threatened by the
unregulated cultivation of cannabis in the unincorporated area of San Benito
County.
   (Q)   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to allow the cultivation or
use of cannabis for commercial or business purposes, or allow any activity
relating to the cultivation, distribution, or consumption of cannabis that is
otherwise illegal under state or federal law. No provision of this chapter
shall be deemed a defense or immunity to any action brought against any person
by the San Benito County District Attorney, the Attorney General of State of
California, or the United States of America.
(Ord. 959, § 4, 2017; Ord. 963, § 2, 2017)
§ 11.15.030 DEFINITIONS.
   Except where the context otherwise requires, the following definitions shall
govern the construction of this chapter:
   CANNABIS. Has the meaning set forth in the Cal. Business and Professions
Code § 26001, subdivision (f), the Medicinal and Adult-Use Cannabis Regulation
and Safety Act. This definition includes medicinal cannabis or non-medicinal
cannabis.
   CANNABIS PLANT. Any mature or immature cannabis plant, or any cannabis
seedling.
   CHILD CARE CENTER. Any licensed child care center, day care center, or
childcare home, or any preschool.
   CHURCH. A structure or leased portion of a structure, which is used
primarily for religious worship and related religious activities.
   CONTIGUOUS. Any two parcels of real property which share a mutual boundary.
Parcels shall be considered as contiguous units, even if it is separated by
roads, streets, utility easements or railroad rights-of-way.
   DAY CARE CENTER.  Has the meaning set forth in the Cal. Health and Safety
Code § 1596.76.
   COUNTY HEARING OFFICER. A person designated by the Board of Supervisors and
appointed to the position of Hearing Officer, as established by San Benito
County Code
Chapter 1.07, and who is independently authorized to conduct administrative
hearings and issue decisions and orders pursuant to and as authorized by the
San Benito County Code.
   CULTIVATION. Any activity involving the propagation, planting, growing,
harvesting, drying, curing, grading, processing, trimming, or storage of one or
more cannabis plants, or any part thereof in any location, indoor or outdoor,
including from within a fully enclosed and secure building.
   CULTIVATION SITE. A location where cannabis is cultivated.
   ENFORCING OFFICER or CODE ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. Means the San Benito County
Resources Management Agency Director, Building Official, Building Inspector,
Health Officer, Sheriff, Agricultural Commissioner, or their authorized
deputies or designee(s), and any person employed by the county and appointed to
the position of code enforcement officer, as established by San Benito County
Res. No. 90-27 and Ordinances 567 and 625, each of whom is independently
authorized to enforce this chapter.
   FENCE. A wall or a barrier connected by boards, masonry, rails, panels, wire
or any other materials for the purpose of enclosing space or separating parcels
of land. The term FENCE does not include retaining walls, plastic, tarp, bamboo
coverings, corrugated metal, or other materials not designed or manufactured
for use as a fence.
   IMMATURE PLANT. A cannabis plant that has not begun to bloom or flower.
   INDOOR CULTIVATION. Cultivation that is conducted within a fully enclosed,
permitted building or structure, accessible only through one or more locking
doors, which is secure against unauthorized entry. INDOOR CULTIVATION includes
cultivation within a greenhouse or similar structure.
   LEGAL PARCEL. Any parcel of real property for which one legal title exists
that may be separately sold in compliance with the Subdivision Map Act (Div. 2
(commencing with Section 66410) of Title 7 of the Cal. Gov’t Code). Where
contiguous legal parcels are under common ownership or control, such legal
parcels shall be counted as a single "premises" for purposes of this chapter.
   MATURE PLANT. A cannabis plant that has begun to bloom or flower; or that
contains one or more blooms, flowers, or buds.
   OUTDOOR CULTIVATION. Cultivation that is not conducted within a fully
enclosed, permitted building, accessible only through one or more locking
doors, which is secure against unauthorized entry. OUTDOOR CULTIVATION
includes, without limitation, cultivation of cannabis within a "hoop house" or
similar structure.
   PREMISES. A single, legal parcel of real property. Where contiguous legal
parcels are under common ownership or control, such contiguous legal parcels
shall be counted as a single PREMISES for purposes of this chapter.
   RESIDENCE or RESIDENTIAL STRUCTURE. Any structure designed, approved, and
maintained for permanent human habitation pursuant to Title 24 or Title 25 of
the Cal. Code of Regulations or constructed prior to the adoption of the
California Building Standards Code by the county. RESIDENCE or RESIDENTIAL
STRUCTURE does not include a structure that has been deemed substandard by the
county Building Official or his/her authorized agents.
   SCHOOL. An institution of learning for minors, whether public or private,
offering a regular course of instruction required by the California Education
Code, or any licensed child or day care facility. This definition includes a
nursery school, kindergarten, elementary school, middle or junior high school,
senior high school, or any special institution of education, but it does not
include a vocational or professional institution of higher education, including
a community or junior college, college or university.
   SCHOOL BUS STOP. Any location designated in accordance with Cal. Code of
Regulations, Title 13, § 1238, to receive school buses, as defined in Cal.
Vehicle Code § 233, or school pupil activity buses, as defined in Cal. Vehicle
Code § 546.
   SCHOOL EVACUATION SITE. Any location designated by formal action of the
governing body, superintendent, or principal of any school as a location to
which juveniles are to be evacuated to, or are to assemble at, in the event of
an emergency or other incident at the school.
   YOUTH-ORIENTED FACILITY. Elementary school, middle school, high school,
public park, any establishment that advertises in a manner that identifies the
establishment as catering to or providing services primarily intended for
minors, or the individuals who regularly patronize, congregate or assemble at
the establishment are predominately minors. This shall not include a day care
or preschool facility.
(Ord. 949, § 2(part), 2016; Ord. 959, § 7, 2017; Ord. 963, § 5, 2017)
§ 11.15.040 NUISANCE DECLARED; PROHIBITION ON CULTIVATION.
   The following regulations shall apply to premises used for cannabis
cultivation in the unincorporated area of San Benito County, and shall be
imposed regardless of the number of persons residing at the premises or
participating directly or indirectly in the cultivation, and shall further be
imposed notwithstanding any assertion that the person(s) cultivating the
cannabis are qualified patients or the primary caregiver(s) for qualified
patients or that such person(s) are collectively or cooperatively cultivating
cannabis:
   (A)   The outdoor cultivation of cannabis, in any amount or quantity, is
hereby declared to be unlawful and a public nuisance that may be abated in
accordance with this chapter. This subdivision shall not apply to those
cannabis cultivation sites that commenced cultivation prior to November 21,
2017, in full compliance with the provisions of
Chapter 11.15 of the San Benito County Code as it read prior to the adoption of
the chapter enacting this subdivision. Cannabis cultivation described in this
subdivision shall be required to comply with the provisions of this section as
it read prior to the adoption of the chapter enacting this subdivision
pertaining to outdoor cannabis cultivation until March 1, 2018.
   (B)   The cultivation of more than six cannabis plants on any premises is
hereby declared to be unlawful and a public nuisance that may be abated in
accordance with this chapter.
   (C)   Except as provided in a waiver granted in accordance with subdivision
(D), the cultivation of cannabis, in any amount or quantity, upon any premises
is hereby declared to be unlawful and a public nuisance that may be abated in
accordance with this chapter, unless all of the following conditions are
satisfied:
      (1)   The person(s) owning, leasing, occupying, or having charge or
possession of any premises have submitted the required annual registration for
the premises and provided all of the following current information and
documentation to the San Benito County Resources Management Agency:
         (a)   The name of each person, owning, leasing, occupying, or having
charge or possession of the premises;
         (b)   The name of each person who participates in the cultivation,
either directly or by providing reimbursement for cannabis or the services
provided in conjunction with the provision of that cannabis;
         (c)   A description of the cultivation site and number of cannabis
plants;
         (d)   The number of cannabis plants to be cultivated on the premises;
and
         (e)   If the person(s) cultivating cannabis on any legal parcel is/are
not the legal owner(s) of the parcel, such person(s) shall submit a notarized
letter from the legal owner(s) acknowledging and consenting to permit the
cultivation of cannabis to be conducted on the parcel by the registrant. This
letter shall be examined by the Resources Management Agency and may then be
returned. The Resources Management Agency may prescribe forms for such letter.
         (f)   Such other information and documentation as the San Benito
County Resources Management Agency determines is necessary to ensure compliance
with state law and this chapter.
      (2)   The information and documentation required by this section shall be
received in confidence, and shall be used or disclosed only for purposes of
administration or enforcement of this chapter or state law, or as otherwise
required by law.
      (3)   The San Benito Resources Management Agency may refuse to accept a
registration for any premises upon which cannabis cultivation is being
conducted, or is proposed to be conducted, in violation of this chapter. The
acceptance of a registration pursuant to this chapter shall not be deemed or
construed to be a permit for or approval of any violation of this chapter. The
acceptance of a registration shall not prevent the enforcing officer from
thereafter requiring correction of violations or from preventing cannabis
cultivation being carried out thereunder when in violation of this chapter.
      (4)   The Board of Supervisors may, by resolution, establish a fee for
such annual registration in accordance with all applicable legal requirements,
including, but not limited to a late registration penalty equal to 50% of the
applicable registration fee.
      (5)   Every registration under this chapter shall be valid for no more
than one calendar year and shall expire on December 31 of that year. An expired
registration shall be renewed in the same manner as an initial registration
hereunder. In the event that the registration of any premises for any calendar
year is submitted after March 1 of that year, the registration shall be deemed
late. The Director of the Resources Management Agency may waive the late
registration penalty if the failure to timely register was due to reasonable
cause and not due to willful neglect.
      (6)   The cultivation of cannabis must be conducted indoors, within a
fully enclosed and permitted structure which must comply with the following
standards:
         (a)   The structure shall comply with all applicable state and local
laws, codes and regulations, including without limit, the Cal. Building Code,
Electrical and Fire Codes as adopted by San Benito County. The structure shall
be equipped with permanently installed and permitted electricity, and shall not
be served by temporary extension cords.
         (b)   Windows shall have adequate coverings to prevent cannabis plants
from being visible from any location not part of the premises, including the
public right-of-way and/or neighboring properties. Such window coverings shall
not restrict emergency egress from the structure.
         (c)   The structure, or room in which the cultivation occurs, shall
have locking doors and shall be secured to prevent access by minors and/or
unauthorized persons.
         (d)   Structures used for cultivation shall be equipped with an odor
control filtration and ventilation system adequate to prevent an odor, humidity
or mold problem within the structure, on the parcel, or on adjacent parcels.
         (e)   Structures that are exempt from building permits shall not be
used for the cultivation of cannabis.
      (7)   The premises must contain a permitted residential use. For purposes
of this subdivision, PERMITTED RESIDENTIAL USE shall mean actual residential
use of the premises that is conducted in a residential structure or
manufactured home on a permanent foundation for which a final certificate of
occupancy has been issued in accordance with Titles 19, 21, and 25 of the San
Benito County Code.
      (8)   The premises upon which the cannabis is cultivated is located at
least 1,000 feet away from any school, school bus stop, school evacuation site,
church, park, child care center, or youth-oriented facility ("Sensitive Use
Setback"). Such distance shall be measured in a straight line from the boundary
line of the premises upon which the school, school bus stop, school evacuation
site, church, park, child care center, or youth-oriented facility is located to
the nearest exterior wall of the building or structure within which cannabis is
cultivated.
      (9)   The cultivation site shall be set back at least 100 feet from all
boundaries of the premises ("Boundary Line Setback"). Such distance shall be
measured in a straight line from the boundary line of the premises to the
nearest exterior wall of the building or structure within which cannabis is
cultivated.
   (D)   Prior to cultivation, the owner or occupant of the premises may submit
a written request that the Director of the Resources Management Agency waive
the application of the “Sensitive Use Setback” and/or “Boundary Line Setback”
provision(s) of subdivision (C) based upon a finding of unusual hardship or
other good cause. Waiver requests shall not be unreasonably denied. In the
event that the California Attorney General issues a determination under Cal.
Health and Safety Code § 11362.2(b)(4). The Director of the Resources
Management Agency shall grant or deny each waiver request in writing, and may
impose reasonable conditions upon any waiver granted. If granted, the waiver
shall remain valid until expiration of the registration, at which time the
waiver shall also expire. Renewal of any such waiver may be requested at the
same time as renewal of registration. If the waiver request is denied or
conditioned, the owner or occupant may submit a written appeal to the Clerk of
the Board of Supervisors within ten calendar days. If the Hearing Officer has
been appointed, as established by
Chapter 1.07 of the San Benito County Code, the appeal shall be heard by the
Hearing Officer; otherwise the appeal shall be heard by the Board of
Supervisors. The Board of Supervisors or the County Hearing Officer, as
applicable, shall consider the matter de novo, and may affirm, reverse, or
modify the determination of the Director of the Resources Management Agency.
The decision of the Board of Supervisors or Hearing Officer, as applicable,
shall be final and conclusive.
   (E)   The cultivation of cannabis, in any amount or quantity upon any
premises, in connection with any cannabis business as defined in
Chapter 7.02 of the San Benito County Code, or "commercial cannabis activity,"
as defined in the Medicinal and Adult-Use Cannabis Regulation and Safety Act,
or by any permittee, licensee, or person required to obtain a license from the
state, is hereby declared to be unlawful and a public nuisance that may be
abated in accordance with this chapter, except as expressly provided in
Chapter 7.02 of the San Benito County Code.
   (F)   No person owning, leasing, occupying, or having charge or possession
of any premises within the county shall cause, allow, suffer, or permit such
premises to be used for the cultivation of cannabis plants in violation of this
chapter.
   (G)   The extraction and refinement of chemical compounds from cannabis by
way of a solvent-based method utilizing compressed flammable gases or alcohol
in violation of state law is prohibited.
   (H)   Acts, omissions, or conditions in violation of this chapter that
continue, exist, or occur on more than one calendar day constitute separate
violations on each day. Violations continuing, existing, or occurring on the
service date, the effective date, and each day between the service date and the
effective date are separate violations.
(Ord. 949, § 2(part), 2016; Ord. 959, § 7, 2017; Ord. 963, § 7, 2017)
§ 11.15.050 NUISANCES ABATEMENT AUTHORITY.
   (A)   Whenever necessary to investigate and ascertain, and/or to abate any
violation of the provisions of this chapter, or whenever there is reasonable
cause to believe that there exists a violation of this chapter, the enforcing
officer may enter onto any premises or into any building upon presentation of
proper credentials to the owner and/or the occupant thereof. Notwithstanding
the foregoing, the enforcing officer may enter onto any premises or into any
building under authority of warrant issues pursuant to Cal. Code of Civil
Procedure §§ 1822.50 et seq. All costs incurred by the county in seeking and
obtaining an administrative warrant may be recoverable as abatement costs.
   (B)   Whenever the enforcing officer determines that a public nuisance as
described in this chapter exists on any premises within the unincorporated area
of San Benito County, he or she is authorized to do any one or more of the
following:
      (1)   Create a cause of action for civil penalty and/or abatement
pursuant to Chapters
1.03,
1.04, and/or
1.06 of the San Benito County Code, or any other action authorized by law;
      (2)   Abate the nuisance in accordance the procedures of §§
11.15.095 through and including
11.15.115;
      (3)   Determine and collect an administrative civil penalty in accordance
with the procedures provided in §§
11.15.090 through and including
11.15.115; or
      (4)   Seek relief from any court to abate the nuisance and/or collect
civil penalties through the Office of the County Counsel, without first going
through the administrative procedures set forth in this chapter.
      (5)   Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, when any
unlawful cannabis cultivation constitutes an immediate threat to public health
or safety, the enforcing officer may summarily abate the nuisance in accordance
with the procedures provided in §
11.15.160.
(Ord. 959, § 11, 2017; Ord. 963, § 9, 2017)
§ 11.15.060 NO DUTY TO ENFORCE.
   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed as imposing on the enforcing
officer or the County of San Benito any duty to issue any notice hereunder, nor
to abate any unlawful cannabis cultivation, nor to take any other action with
regard to any unlawful cannabis cultivation, and neither the enforcing officer
nor the County of San Benito shall be held liable for failure to issue any
noice hereunder, nor for failure to abate any unlawful cannabs cultivation, nor
for failure to take any other action with regard to any unlawful cannabis
cultivation.
(Ord. 949, § 2(part), 2016; Ord. 959, § 13, 2017)
§ 11.15.070 DUTY OF OWNERS AND OCCUPANTS; NO UNLAWFUL ACTIVITY PERMITTED.
   No person or entity owning, leasing, occupying or having charge or
possession of any premises within the unincorporated area of the County of San
Benito shall cause, permit, maintain, conduct or otherwise suffer or allow a
public nuisance as defined in this chapter to exist. It shall be the duty of
every owner, occupant, and person that controls any land or interest therein
within the unincorporated area of the County of San Benito to remove, abate,
and prevent the reoccurrence of the public nuisance upon such land. Such duty
of an owner shall exist regardless of whether the owner is in actual possession
of his or her real property, and may include an obligation to take action to
evict or otherwise remove an occupier who creates a public nuisance upon the
owner's property. Nothing in this chapter shall be deemed to authorize or
permit any activity that violates any provision of state or Federal law.
(Ord. 949, § 2(part), 2016; Ord. 959, § 13, 2017)
§ 11.15.080 OTHER NUISANCE.
   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed as a limitation on the county's
authority to abate any nuisance which may otherwise exist from the cultivation
of cannabis plants or any part thereof from any location, indoor or outdoor,
including from within a fully enclosed and secure building or structure.
(Ord. 949, § 2(part), 2016; Ord. 959, § 13, 2017)
§ 11.15.090 ADMINISTRATIVE CIVIL PENALTIES.
   (A)   In addition to any other remedy or penalty prescribed in this chapter,
any nuisance as described in this chapter may be subject to an administrative
penalty of up to $1,000 per day.
   (B)   In determining the amount of the administrative penalty, the enforcing
officer, or the court if the violation requires court enforcement without an
administrative process, shall take into consideration the nature,
circumstances, extent, and gravity of the violation or violations, any prior
history of violations, the degree of culpability, economic savings if any
resulting from the violation and any other matters justice may require.
   (C)   The administrative penalty may be imposed via the administrative
process set forth in §§
11.15.095 through and including
11.15.115, as provided in Cal. Gov’t Code § 53069.4, or may be imposed by the
court if the violation requires court enforcement without an administrative
process.
   (D)   The enforcing officer may commence the administrative process by
issuing an NOV in accordance with §§
11.15.095 and
11.15.100. In the case of a continuing violation, if the violation does not
create an immediate danger to health or safety, the enforcing officer or the
court shall provide for a reasonable period of time, not to exceed six calendar
days, for the person responsible for the violation to correct or otherwise
remedy the violation prior to the imposition of administrative penalties.
(Ord. 959, § 19, 2017; Ord. 963, § 11, 2017)
§ 11.15.095 NOTICES.
   Whenever the enforcing officer determines that a public nuisances as
described in this chapter exists on any real property within the unincorporated
area of San Benito County, he or she is authorized to issue notices pursuant to
Chapters
1.03,
1.04, and/or
1.06 of the San Benito County Code, except that the violator shall be provided
with six calendar days, from issuance of the notices provided in Ch.
1.06, to abate the nuisance before the imposition of any civil administrative
penalty under this chapter. Furthermore, the violator shall be provided with
ten calendar days, from issuance of an NOV provided in Ch.
1.06, to submit a written request for hearing to the Resources Management
Agency.
(Ord. 959, § 20, 2017)
§ 11.15.100 SERVICE OF NOTICES.
   (A)   Any notice issued by the enforcing officer in accordance with this
chapter shall be served in the following manner:
      (1)   By either:
         (a)   Delivering it personally to the owner and to the occupant.
Service shall be deemed to have been completed upon personal delivery; or
         (b)   By overnight mail, addressed to:
            1.   The owner at the address shown on the last equalized
assessment roll or as otherwise known to the enforcing officer; and
            2.   To anyone known to the enforcing officer to be in possession
of the property at the street address of the property subject to the notice, if
the property is capable of receiving mail. Service shall be deemed to have been
completed upon the deposit of said notice, postage prepaid, in the United
States mail; and
      (2)   In the event that, after reasonable effort, the enforcing officer
is unable to serve the notice as set forth above, service shall be accomplished
by posting a copy of such notice conspicuously along the frontage of the real
property subject to the notice, or if the property has no frontage, upon any
street, highway, or road then upon the portion of the property nearest to a
street, highway, or road, or most likely to give actual notice to the owner and
any person known by the enforcing officer to be in possession of the property.
Service shall be deemed to have been completed upon posting.
   (B)   The failure to serve any person described in this subsection shall not
affect the validity of service or the validity of any administrative penalties
imposed pursuant to this chapter upon any other person. The failure of any
owner or occupant to receive such notice shall not affect the validity of the
proceedings.
(Ord. 959, § 20, 2017)
§ 11.15.105 RECORDATION OF NOTICES.
   Whenever the enforcing officer determines that a public nuisance as
described in this chapter exists on any real property within the unincorporated
area of San Benito County, he or she is authorized to record notices pursuant
to §
1.06.100 of San Benito County Code.
(Ord. 959, § 23, 2017)
§ 11.15.110 ADMINISTRATIVE HEARING.
   (A)   If the enforcing officer determines that all violations have been
timely corrected, the enforcing officer shall not be required to clear the
notice. Timely abatement of a violation under this chapter shall not prohibit
the enforcing officer from seeking a determination of existence of such
violation from the County Hearing Officer.
   (B)   The Board of Supervisors may delegate its authority to conduct the
administrative proceedings set forth in this Section to the County Hearing
Officer appointed by the Board of Supervisors pursuant to
Chapter 1.07 of the San Benito County Code and Cal. Gov’t Code § 27720, as
amended. The hearing officer shall have full authority and duty to preside over
hearings in the manner set forth in
Chapter 1.07 of San Benito County Code.
   (C)   Administrative hearing and decision or order:
      (1)   Pursuant to Cal. Gov’t Code §§ 25845(i) and 27721(a), the county
hearing officer shall hold an administrative hearing as follows:
         (a)   If the enforcing officer issued a notice and order, the hearing
shall be held no less than six calendar days after service of the notice and
order. The county hearing officer shall determine whether:
            1.   The conditions existing on the property subject to the notice
and order constitute a nuisance under this chapter; and
            2.   There is any other good cause why those conditions should not
be abated;
         (b)   If the enforcing officer issued a NOV, the hearing shall be held
within ten days from receipt of the written request for hearing. The county
hearing officer shall determine whether:
            1.   The conditions existing on the property subject to the NOV
constitute a nuisance under this chapter;
            2.   To impose, modify, or disapprove, in whole or in part, the
proposed penalty set forth in the NOV; and
            3.   The enforcing officer may record the NOV.
         (c)   If the enforcing officer combined a notice and order with an
NOV, the hearing shall be held no less than six calendar days after service of
the notice. The county hearing officer shall determine whether:
            1.   The conditions existing on the property subject to the notice
constitute a nuisance under this chapter;
            2.   There is any other good cause why those conditions should not
be abated; and
            3.   To impose, modify, or disapprove, in whole or in part, by its
own order, the proposed penalty set forth in the notice.
      (2)   The owner(s) and/or occupant(s) of the property shall be given an
opportunity at the hearing to present and elicit testimony and other evidence
regarding whether the conditions existing on the property constitute a nuisance
under this chapter and whether there is any other good cause why those
conditions should not be abated, and/or to contest the proposed amount of
administrative penalty. Failure of the owner(s) and/or occupant(s) to appear
and present evidence at the hearing shall be deemed a withdrawal of the request
for hearing or a waiver of the right to be personally present at the hearing,
and shall constitute a failure to exhaust administrative remedies.
      (3)   In the event owner(s) and/or occupant(s) do not appear and present
evidence at the hearing, the county hearing officer may base its decision and
order solely upon the evidence submitted by the enforcing officer.
      (4)   Any hearing conducted pursuant to this chapter need not be
conducted according to technical rules relating to evidence, witnesses and
hearsay. Any relevant evidence shall be admitted if it is the sort of evidence
on which responsible persons are accustomed to rely in the conduct of serious
affairs regardless of the existence of any common law or statutory rule which
might make improper the admission of the evidence over objection in civil
actions. The county hearing officer has discretion to exclude evidence if its
probative value is substantially outweighed by the probability that its
admission will necessitate undue consumption of time.
      (5)   The standard of proof shall be by a preponderance of the evidence
and the burden of proof to establish the existence of the nuisance shall be
borne by the enforcing official. The burden of proof that the nuisance has been
abated shall be borne by the owner(s) and/or occupant(s).
      (6)   The county hearing officer may continue the administrative hearing
from time to time. Prior to a scheduled hearing, the enforcing officer or the
owner(s) and/or occupant(s) may submit a written request for continuance to the
county hearing officer within two calendar days following the time the party
discovered or reasonably should have discovered the event or occurrence which
establishes the good cause for the continuance. The county hearing officer
shall issue his or her determination by any means likely to provide notice to
the parties at the soonest time possible. In the event the request for
continuance is granted, the county hearing officer shall also provide the date
and time for the rescheduled hearing.
      (7)   The county hearing officer shall consider the matter de novo.
      (8)   After the hearing, the county hearing officer shall issue its
decision in the form of an order which shall be served by first class mail,
postage prepaid, to, or personally served upon, all parties appearing at the
hearing and any other parties upon whom the notice was served. The decision
shall include the following:
         (a)   If the enforcing officer issued a notice and order:
            1.   Whether the determinations contained in the notice and order
are affirmed, modified, or reversed; and
            2.   Findings related to the existence or non-existence of the
alleged nuisance, as well as findings concerning the propriety and means of
abatement of the conditions set forth in the notice and order.
         (b)   If the enforcing officer issued an NOV, whether the proposed
penalty set forth in the NOV is imposed, modified, or disapproved, in whole or
in part.
         (c)   If the enforcing officer combined a notice and order with an
NOV, a decision which shall include the contents of the decision set forth in
division (A)(8)(i) and division (A)(8)(h).
      (9)   The county hearing officer's decision shall be final and conclusive
when signed by the county hearing officer and served as provided herein.
Service shall be deemed to have been completed upon personal service and/or the
deposit of said decision, postage prepaid, in the United States mail. Payment
of an administrative penalty specified in the county hearing officer's decision
shall be made to the county within 20 calendar days of service of the decision,
unless timely appealed to the Superior Court in accordance with Cal. Gov’t Code
§ 53069.4(b).
(Ord. 959, § 25, 2017)
§ 11.15.115 ENFORCEMENT OF ABATEMENT ORDER.
   (A)   Any owner or occupant may abate the nuisance or cause it to be abated
at any time prior to commencement of abatement by, or at the direction of, the
enforcing officer. An owner or occupant abating unlawful cannabis cultivation
hereunder shall notify the enforcing officer upon completion of abatement.
Abatement shall not be deemed completed until the unlawful cannabis cultivation
has been completely removed from the premises and notification has been
provided as set forth in this section. Such abatement by any owner or occupant
shall not impair the enforcing officer's ability to impose any administrative
penalty accrued prior to such abatement.
   (B)   Notwithstanding the foregoing, whenever the enforcing officer becomes
aware that an owner or occupant has failed to abate any unlawful cannabis
cultivation within two calendar days of the date of service of the decision of
the County Hearing Officer under this chapter requiring such abatement, the
enforcing officer may enter upon the property and abate the nuisance by county
personnel, or by private contractor under the direction of the enforcing
officer. The enforcing officer may apply to a court of competent jurisdiction
for a warrant authorizing entry upon the property for purposes of undertaking
the work, if necessary. If any part of the work is to be accomplished by
private contract, that contract shall be submitted to and approved by the Board
of Supervisors prior to commencement of work. Nothing herein shall be construed
to require that any private contract under this code be awarded through
competitive bidding procedures where such procedures are not required by the
general laws of the State of California.
   (C)   The costs of abatement and administrative costs for every abatement
carried out under this section may be recovered in accordance with §§
11.15.120 through
11.15.125.
(Ord. 959, § 26, 2017; Ord. 963, § 12, 2017)
§ 11.15.120 LIABILITY FOR ABATEMENT COSTS AND/OR ADMINISTRATIVE PENALTIES;
INTEREST.
   (A)   In any enforcement action brought pursuant to this chapter, whether by
administrative proceedings, judicial proceedings, or summary abatement, each
person who causes, permits, suffers, or maintains the unlawful cannabis
cultivation to exist shall be liable for:
      (1)   All costs incurred by the county, including, but not limited to,
abatement costs, including administrative costs, and any and all costs incurred
to undertake, or to cause or compel any responsible party to undertake, any
abatement action in compliance with the requirements of this chapter, whether
those costs are incurred prior to, during, or following enactment of this
chapter. In addition, the prevailing party shall be entitled to a recovery of
the reasonable attorneys' fees incurred. Recovery of attorneys' fees under this
subdivision shall be limited to those actions or proceedings in which the
county elects, at the initiation of that action or proceeding, to seek recovery
of its own attorneys' fees. In no action, administrative proceeding, or special
proceeding shall an award of attorneys' fees to a prevailing party exceed the
amount of reasonable attorneys' fees incurred by the county in the action or
proceeding.
      (2)   Any administrative penalty imposed pursuant to this chapter. In the
event that an administrative penalty is imposed pursuant to §§
11.15.090 through and including
11.15.115 on two or more persons for the same violation, all such persons shall
be jointly and severally liable for the full amount of the administrative
penalty imposed. Payment of administrative penalties imposed pursuant to §§
11.15.090 through and including
11.15.115 does not excuse or discharge any continuation or repeated occurrence
of the violation that is the subject of the NOV. Payment of the administrative
penalty does not bar the county from taking any other enforcement action
regarding a violation that is not corrected.
   (B)   Interest shall accrue on all amounts due under this chapter, from the
effective date of the Board of Supervisors' decision, as set forth in §
11.15.110, to the date paid pursuant to the laws applicable to civil money
judgments.
   (C)   At such time as the information becomes known, the enforcing officer
shall make a demand for abatement costs and/or accrued administrative penalty
by issuing an invoice in accordance with §
1.06.080 of the San Benito County Code to the owner(s) and/or occupant(s) of
the premises subject to enforcement action.
   (D)   Whenever the amount of abatement costs, including administrative costs
incurred by the county to abate the nuisance, or the amount of any
administrative penalty imposed pursuant to this chapter has not been satisfied
in full within 90 calendar days after service of the invoice set forth in
Chapter 1.06, and/or has not been timely appealed to the Superior Court in
accordance with Cal. Gov’t Code § 53069.4(b), or if appealed, such appeal has
been dismissed or denied, all or any part of, this obligation may constitute a
lien against the real property on which the violation occurred in accordance
with the procedures set forth in §§
11.15.120 through
11.15.125.
   (E)   In addition to any other legal remedy, the county may prosecute a
civil action through the Office of the County Counsel to collect any costs
incurred to abate the nuisance and/or any administrative penalty imposed
pursuant to this chapter.
(Ord. 959, § 28, 2017; Ord. 963, § 15, 2017)
§ 11.15.125 LIEN HEARING; ALTERNATIVE LIEN HEARING PROCEDURE.
   At such time as abatement costs and/or administrative penalties due and
owing have no timely been paid, the enforcing officer shall follow the lien
hearing and/or alternative lien hearing procedures set forth in §§
1.06.140 and
1.06.150 of the San Benito County Code, except that in the event that the Board
of Supervisors sets the matter for de novo hearing, such hearing shall be held
in accordance with the provisions of §
11.15.110.
(Ord. 959, § 29, 2017)
§ 11.15.130 NO VESTED OR NON-CONFORMING RIGHTS.
   Neither this chapter, nor any other provision of this code or action,
failure to act, statement, representation, certificate, approval, or permit
issued by the county or its departments, or their respective representatives,
agents, employees, attorneys or assigns, shall create, confer, or convey any
vested or nonconforming right or benefit regarding any cannabis cultivation.
(Ord. 949, § 2(part), 2016; Ord. 959, § 31, 2017; Ord. 963, § 17, 2017)
§ 11.15.140 SEVERABILITY.
   If any section, subsection, sentence, clause, portion, or phrase of this
chapter is for any reason held illegal, invalid, or unconstitutional by the
decision of any court of competent jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect
the validity of the remaining portions hereof. The Board of Supervisors hereby
declares that it would have passed this chapter and each section, subsection,
sentence, clause, portion, or phrase hereof, irrespective of the fact that any
one or more sections, subsections, sentences, clauses, or phrases be declared
illegal, invalid or unconstitutional.
(Ord. 949, § 2(part), 2016; Ord. 963, § 19, 2017)
§ 11.15.145 FEES.
   The Board of Supervisors may establish fees related this chapter by
ordinance or resolution.
(Ord. 949, § 2(part), 2016; Ord. 963, § 21, 2017)
§ 11.15.150 ENFORCEMENT BY CIVIL ACTION.
   As an alternative to the procedures set forth in §§
11.15.090 through and including
11.15.115, the county may abate the violation of this chapter by the
prosecution of a civil action through the Office of the County Counsel,
including an action for injunctive relief. The remedy of injunctive relief may
take the form of a court order, enforceable through civil contempt proceedings,
prohibiting the maintenance of the violation of this chapter or requiring
compliance with other terms.
(Ord. 959, § 32, 2017; Ord. 963, § 23, 2017)
§ 11.15.160 SUMMARY ABATEMENT.
   Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, when any unlawful
cannabis cultivation constitutes an immediate threat to public health or
safety, and when the procedures set forth in §§
11.15.090 through and including
11.15.115 would not result in abatement of that nuisance within a short enough
time period to avoid that threat, the enforcing officer may direct any officer
or employee of the county to summarily abate the nuisance. The enforcing
officer shall make reasonable efforts to notify the persons identified in §
11.15.090, but the formal notice and hearing procedures set forth in this
chapter shall not apply. The county may nevertheless recover its costs for
abating that nuisance in the manner set forth in §§
11.15.120 through and including
11.15.125.
(Ord. 959, § 33, 2017; Ord. 963, § 25, 2017)
§ 11.15.170 REMEDIES CUMULATIVE.
   All remedies provided for herein are cumulative and not exclusive, and are
in addition to any other remedy or penalty provided by law.
(Ord. 959, § 34, 2017)
§ 11.15.180 NO CRIMINAL PENALTY.
   Notwithstanding any other provision of this code, violation of this chapter
shall not be an infraction or a misdemeanor.
(Ord. 959, § 35, 2017)
CHAPTER 11.17: SANTA CRUZ-MONTEREY-MERCED-SAN BENITO-MARIPOSA MANAGED MEDICAL
CARE COMMISSION
Section
   
11.17.010   Established
   
11.17.020   Purpose
   
11.17.030   Membership
   
11.17.035   Membership composition
   
11.17.040   Bylaws
   
11.17.050   Quorum
   
11.17.060   Status and power of the Commission
   
11.17.080   Reports
   
11.17.090   Vacancies
   
11.17.100   Severability
§ 11.17.010 ESTABLISHED.
   Pursuant to Cal. Welfare and Institutions Code § 14087.54, there is created
the Santa Cruz-Monterey-Merced-San Benito-Mariposa Managed Medical Care
Commission. This Commission is a multi-county commission representing Santa
Cruz, Monterey, Merced, San Benito and Mariposa Counties. The Santa Cruz-
Monterey-Merced-San Benito-Mariposa Managed Medical Care Commission shall be
established effective on that date that all five counties have in effect
substantially similar ordinances creating the Commission and a quorum of the
Commission's members have met to conduct its initial public meeting. Upon the
establishment of the Commission, all of the rights, duties, privileges, and
immunities vested in Santa Cruz County by Cal. Welfare and Institutions Code §§
14087.5 et seq. (Division 9, Part 3, Chapter 7, Article 2.8) are instead
transferred to and vested in the Commission and shall continue to be so vested
until Santa Cruz County formally terminates its participation in the
Commission. Any action to terminate participation must be preceded by a 90-day
notice to the other member counties and notice to the State Department of
Health Care Services as set forth in Cal. Welfare and Institutions Code §
14087.54(g).
(Ord. 1033, § 1, 2021)
§ 11.17.020 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The purpose of the Commission is to negotiate exclusive contracts with
the California Department of Health Care Services and to arrange for the
provision of health care services to qualifying individuals in Santa Cruz
County, Monterey County, Merced County, San Benito County and Mariposa County
who lack sufficient annual income to meet the cost of health care, and whose
other assets are so limited that their application toward the cost of health
care would jeopardize the person or family's future minimum self-maintenance
and security, pursuant to Chapter 7 of Part 3 of Division 9 of the Cal. Welfare
and Institutions Code.
   (B)   The Commission shall design and operate a program that:
      (1)   Delivers primary care via a contracted provider network which
significantly improves access to primary care and related specialty and
ancillary services for enrolled Medi-Cal recipients;
      (2)   Includes mechanisms for ensuring that Commission-financed medical
care services meet appropriate quality of care standards;
      (3)   Incorporates a plan of service delivery and implements
reimbursement mechanisms which will promote the long-term viability of a
locally operated Medi-Cal managed care system and participating "safety net"
providers herein defined as Medi-Cal disproportionate share hospitals, county
clinics and licensed community clinics;
      (4)   Implements a financial plan which includes the creation of a
prudent reserve within three years of commencing operations, and which provides
that if additional surplus funds accrue, they shall be used to expand access,
improve benefits and augment provider reimbursement;
      (5)   Gives a high priority to increasing prevention, education, and
early intervention services for enrolled recipients;
      (6)   Ensures that all program obligations, statutory, contractual or
otherwise, shall be the obligations of the program and shall not be the
obligations of Santa Cruz County, Monterey County, Merced County, San Benito
County, Mariposa County or the state; and
      (7)   Implements programs and procedures to ensure that a high level of
member satisfaction is maintained.
   (C)   The Commission shall also be authorized to contract with public
insurers, payors or plan sponsors to offer and/or administer their health care
programs, and to contract with private insurers or plan sponsors to administer
their health care programs.
(Ord. 1033, § 1, 2021)
§ 11.17.030 MEMBERSHIP.
   (A)   The Commission shall consist of a maximum of 25 voting members who,
with the exception of the Director or designee of the Health Department (or
Health Services Agency), shall work in the respective county and be appointed
by the respective Board of Supervisors, shall be legal residents of the County
of Santa Cruz appointed by the Board of Supervisors of Santa Cruz County, legal
residents of Monterey County appointed by the Board of Supervisors of Monterey
County, legal residents of Merced County appointed by the Board of Supervisors
of Merced County, legal residents of San Benito County appointed by the Board
of Supervisors of San Benito County, and legal residents of Mariposa County
appointed by the Board of Supervisors of Mariposa County. The Commission shall
be generally representative of the diverse skills, backgrounds, interests, and
demography of persons residing in each county.
   (B)   Each member of the Commission shall have a commitment to a health care
system which seeks to improve access to high quality health care for all
persons, regardless of their economic circumstances, and which in fact delivers
high quality care, and which in fact is financially viable. Members of the
Commission shall likewise have an abiding commitment to, and interest in, a
quality publicly assisted health care delivery system.
   (C)   The number of voting members of the Commission shall be based upon the
number of Medi-Cal beneficiaries within each county, and includes a maximum of
five members within a county with the number of Commissioners within a county
and Commission representation categories determined according to the following
formula:
      (1)   Zero to 15,000 Medi-Cal beneficiaries within the county equals one
Commission seat to be filled by the Director of the County Health Department
(or Health Services Agency) or their designee;
      (2)   Fifteen thousand to 30,000 Medi-Cal beneficiaries within the county
equals two Commission seats to be filled as follows:
         (a)   The Director of the County Health Department (or Health Services
Agency) or their designee; and
         (b)   One at-large representative of either the health care provider
population or the population of beneficiaries to be served by the Commission.
      (3)   Thirty thousand to 45,000 Medi-Cal beneficiaries within the county
equals three Commission seats to be filled as follows:
         (a)   The Director of the County Health Department (or Health Services
Agency) or their designee;
         (b)   One person representing health care providers; and
         (c)   One person from the public representing the population of
beneficiaries to be served by the Commission.
      (4)   Forty-five thousand to 60,000 Medi-Cal beneficiaries within the
county equals four Commission seats to be filled as follows:
         (a)   The Director of the County Health Department (or Health Services
Agency) or their designee;
         (b)   One member of the Board of Supervisors;
         (c)   One person representing health care providers; and
         (d)   One person from the public representing the population of
beneficiaries to be served by the Commission.
      (5)   60,000 or more Medi-Cal beneficiaries within the county equals five
Commission seats to be filled as follows:
         (a)   The Director of the County Health Department (or Health Services
Agency) or their designee;
         (b)   One member of the Board of Supervisors;
         (c)   One person representing health care providers;
         (d)   One person from the public representing the population of
beneficiaries to be served by the Commission; and
         (e)   One at-large representative of either the public representing
the population of beneficiaries to be served by the Commission or one person
representing health care providers.
   (D)   Any deletion of commissioners required based upon a change in the
population of Medi-Cal beneficiaries within a county will be achieved through
attrition, with a maximum of two years to come into compliance with the
membership provisions of this chapter.
   (E)   Commissioners shall be appointed by majority vote of the Board of
Supervisors of the respective county. Any Commission member may be removed from
office by a four-fifths vote of the Board of Supervisors of the county
originally appointing that member.
   (F)   Commissioners appointed by the San Benito County Board of Supervisors
shall serve terms of four years, with the exception of the initial selection of
members. The majority of the Commission members initially appointed by the San
Benito County Board of Supervisors shall serve terms commencing on November 1
of the year in which the second district Supervisor began a full term. The
remaining members initially appointed shall serve terms commencing on November
1 of the year in which the third district Supervisor began a full term. The
initial appointment terms shall be drawn by lots. At the conclusion of a term,
a member may be reappointed to a subsequent four-year term or terms.
(Ord. 1033, § 1, 2021)
§ 11.17.035 MEMBERSHIP COMPOSITION.
   The Board of Supervisors declares that the individuals representing health
care providers appointed to the Commission are intended to represent and
further the interests of the providers, and that such representation and
furtherance will ultimately serve the public interest. Accordingly, the Board
finds that for purposes of determining whether any such Commissioner has a
"financial interest" within the meaning of Cal. Gov't Code § 87100, the
industry, profession, and providers are tantamount to and constitute the public
generally within the meaning of Cal. Gov't Code § 87103.
(Ord. 1033, § 1, 2021)
§ 11.17.040 BYLAWS.
   Procedures for the conduct of business not otherwise specified in this
chapter, including provisions for the creation of standing committees, shall be
contained in bylaws adopted by the Commission and submitted to the Board of
Supervisors of each county for final approval.
(Ord. 1033, § 1, 2021)
§ 11.17.050 QUORUM.
   A majority of the appointed members of the Commission (excluding any
positions that are vacant) shall constitute a quorum, and no act of the
Commission shall be valid unless a majority of those members appointed and not
disqualified from voting due to a conflict of interest concur therein. Any act
of the Commission shall be accomplished by a roll call vote when such a vote is
requested by any member in attendance.
(Ord. 1033, § 1, 2021)
§ 11.17.060 STATUS AND POWER OF COMMISSION.
The Commission shall be considered an entity separate from the County of Santa
Cruz, the County of Monterey, the County of Merced, the County of San Benito
and the County of Mariposa. The Commission shall have all of the powers made
available generally to commissions under Cal. Welfare and Institutions Code §
14087.54. The Commission shall have the power to acquire, possess, and dispose
of real or personal property, as may be necessary for the performance of its
functions, to employ personnel and contract for services to meet its
obligations, and to sue or be sued. Any obligations of the Commission,
statutory, contractual, or otherwise, shall be the obligations solely of the
Commission and shall not be the obligations of the County of Santa Cruz, the
County of Monterey, the County of Merced, the County of San Benito, or the
County of Mariposa.
(Ord. 1033, § 1, 2021)
§ 11.17.080 REPORTS.
   (A)   The Commission shall submit an annual report to each respective Board
of Supervisors and County Administrative Office on or before January 31 of each
year. The report shall highlight the activities, accomplishments, and future
goals of the Commission.
   (B)   Any of the respective Boards of Supervisors may request that the
Commission submit progress reports and recommendations at any time.
(Ord. 1033, § 1, 2021)
§ 11.17.090 VACANCIES.
   Vacancies occurring in the Commission shall be filled by the Board of
Supervisors of the appointing County for the remainder of the unexpired term
only.
(Ord. 1033, § 1, 2021)
§ 11.17.100 SEVERABILITY.
   The provisions of this chapter are severable. If any section, paragraph,
sentence, phrase, or word of this chapter is declared invalid for any reason,
that decision shall not affect any other portion of this chapter, which shall
remain in full force and effect.
(Ord. 1033, § 1, 2021)
CHAPTER 11.18: BAN ON THE USE OF CERTAIN AREAS OF PUBLIC RIGHTS-OF-WAY AS
SLEEPING OR LIVING ACCOMMODATIONS
Section
   
11.18.001   Definitions
   
11.18.002   Prohibition of using public rights-of-way as sleeping or living
accommodations
   
11.18.003   Other public rights-of-way
   
11.18.004   Penalties
§ 11.18.001 DEFINITIONS.
   The definitions contained in this section shall govern the construction,
meaning and application of words and phrases used in this chapter, and shall
not apply to any other chapter of the County Code.
   COUNTY EMPLOYEE. Any full or part-time employee of the County of San Benito.
   PERSONAL PROPERTY. Any tangible property, and includes, but is not limited
to, goods, materials, merchandise, tents, tarpaulins, bedding, sleeping bags,
hammocks, sheds, structures, mattresses, couches, chairs, other furniture,
appliances, and personal items such as household items, luggage, backpacks,
clothing, documents and medication.
   PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY. All property that is owned, managed, or maintained by
the county, or where the county possesses a property interest allowing public
use of such property (such as a right-of-way interest), and shall include, but
not be limited to, any public street, space, ground, building or structure.
   SIDEWALK. That portion of a street, other than the roadway, set apart by
curbs, barriers, markings or other delineation, for pedestrian travel.
   STREET. A way or place of whatever nature, publicly maintained and open to
the use of the public for purposes of vehicular travel or parking, and includes
every highway, avenue, lane, alley, court, place, square, sidewalk, parking
lot, parkway, curbs, bikeway or other public way in this county which has been
or may hereafter be dedicated and open to public use, or such other public
property so designated in any law of this state.
   TENT. A collapsible shelter made of fabric or a tarp stretched and sustained
by supports, which is not open on all sides and which hinders an unobstructed
view behind or into the area surrounded by the fabric.
(Ord. 1067, § 2 (part), 2024)
§ 11.18.002 PROHIBITION OF USING PUBLIC RIGHTS-OF-WAY AS SLEEPING OR LIVING
ACCOMMODATIONS.
   (A)   Parks and playgrounds. No person shall obstruct by sitting, lying, or
sleeping, or by storing, using, maintaining, or placing personal property on a
street, sidewalk, or other public right-of-way in the following locations when
it reasonably appears, in light of all the circumstances, the participants in
conducting these activities are in fact using the area as a sleeping or living
accommodation regardless of the intent of the participants or the nature of any
other activities in which they may also be engaging:
   (B)   Within 500 feet of any park or playground. This prohibition applies
all year, overnight, on any weekends and weekdays, even when such facilities
may be generally considered closed.
(Ord. 1067, § 2 (part), 2024)
§ 11.18.003 OTHER PUBLIC RIGHTS-OF-WAY.
   (A)   No person shall obstruct by sitting, lying, or sleeping, or by
storing, using, maintaining, or placing personal property on a street,
sidewalk, or other public right-of-way in the following locations:
      (1)   In a manner that impedes passage, as provided by the Americans with
Disabilities Act of 1990, Pub. L, No. 101-336, 104 Stat. 328 (1990), as amended
from time to time;
      (2)   Within 500 feet of any school or daycare facility. This prohibition
applies all year, overnight, on any weekends and weekdays, even when such
facilities may be generally considered closed.
      (3)   Within 100 feet of critical infrastructure, including water wells,
storm drain basins, railways, bridges and under- and over-passes.
      (4)   Within ten feet of any operational or utilizable building entrance,
exit, driveway or loading dock.
      (5)   Within five feet of any fire hydrant, fire plug, or other fire
department connection.
      (6)   In a manner that obstructs or unreasonably interferes with the use
of the right-of-way for any activity for which the county has issued a permit.
      (7)   In a manner that obstructs any portion of any street or other
public right-of-way open to use by motor vehicles, including any portion
thereof marked as a bike lane.
      (8)   County creeks and creek embankments within county limits.
(Ord. 1067, § 2 (part), 2024)
§ 11.18.004 PENALTIES.
   A violation of any section of
Chapter 11.18 involving a person who willfully resists, delays, or obstructs a
county employee from enforcing this section or who willfully refuses to comply
after being requested to do so by a county employee shall be punishable as a
misdemeanor. All other violations of
Chapter 11.18 shall be enforceable only as infractions pursuant to San Benito
County Code §
1.03.002 or by civil action pursuant to San Benito County Code §
11.03.003.
(Ord. 1067, § 2 (part), 2024; Ord. 1069, § 1, 2024)
TITLE 13: ANIMALS
   Chapter
      
13.01.   ANIMALS AND FOWL
CHAPTER 13.01: ANIMALS AND FOWL
Section
Article I. General Provisions
   
13.01.001   County Veterinarian
   
13.01.002   Animal control; duties of poundmaster; delegation of powers and
duties
   
13.01.003   Poundmaster authority granted to City of Hollister
   
13.01.004   Failure to provide information
   
13.01.005   Reporting stray animals
   
13.01.006   Keeping of sheep, goats, horses, donkeys, mules, ponies, cows or
other large animals
   
13.01.007   Running at large prohibited
   
13.01.008   Rabid animals generally
   
13.01.009   [Reserved]
   
13.01.010   Interference with poundmaster or law enforcement prohibited
   
13.01.011   [Reserved]
   
13.01.012   [Reserved]
   
13.01.013   [Reserved]
   
13.01.014   [Reserved]
   
13.01.015   Construction of certain stables
   
13.01.016   Maintenance of structures, pens, etc.
   
13.01.017   [Reserved]
   
13.01.018   [Reserved]
   
13.01.019   [Reserved]
Article II. Dogs
   
13.01.020   Running at large prohibited
   
13.01.021   Vicious or dangerous dogs and female dogs in heat
   
13.01.022   [Reserved]
   
13.01.023   Vaccination required
   
13.01.024   Curbing dogs
   
13.01.025   Noise disturbances caused by dog declared a nuisance
   
13.01.026   Rabies emergencies
   
13.01.027   Dangerous dogs; revocation of licenses
   
13.01.028   Confinement after having twice bitten human beings; reinstatement
of licenses
   
13.01.029   Destruction of dogs with revoked licenses which are not properly
confined
Article III. Licenses
   
13.01.030   License required; fees; term
   
13.01.031   Application for license
   
13.01.032   Application for "seeing eye" dog
   
13.01.033   Tags
   
13.01.034   Charges to be debt to the county
Article IV. Impoundment
   
13.01.035   Duty of poundmaster and law enforcement officers; registry of
impounded dogs
   
13.01.036   Notice of impoundment; right of redemption by owner
   
13.01.037   Charges and fees
   
13.01.038   Disposition of unredeemed dogs; destruction of diseased dogs
   
13.01.039   [Reserved]
Article VI. Dangerous Animals
   
13.01.040   Purpose
   
13.01.041   Definitions
   
13.01.042   Inspection
   
13.01.043   Animals at large
   
13.01.044   Temporary impoundment or confinement
   
13.01.045   Hearing procedures
   
13.01.046   Notification and appeal
   
13.01.047   Dangerous animals; disposition
   
13.01.048   Transfer and training of dangerous animals
   
13.01.049   Enforcement and penalties
   
13.01.050   Exemptions
Cross-reference:
   Zoning, see Title 25 of this Code of Ordinances
Statutory reference:
   Authority of county relative to animals generally, see Cal. Gov’t Code §§
25800 to 25803
   Authority of county to appoint livestock inspectors, see Cal. Food and
Agriculture Code § 2126
   Regulation and licensing of dogs, see Cal. Food and Agriculture Code §§
30501 et seq.
ARTICLE I. GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 13.01.001 COUNTY VETERINARIAN.
   There is hereby created the office of County Veterinarian. The Board of
Supervisors shall appoint a licensed veterinarian to serve and hold office at
the pleasure of the Board.
(Ord. 836, § 1 (part))
§ 13.01.002 ANIMAL CONTROL; DUTIES OF POUNDMASTER; DELEGATION OF POWERS AND
DUTIES.
   (A)   The poundmaster shall supervise the animal shelter and the care of
animals impounded therein and shall personally, or through duly appointed
deputies, administer and enforce the sections of this article and all
applicable state laws relative to animal control. (SBC § 13.01.21.)
   (B)   Any power granted to, or duty imposed upon the poundmaster in the
conduct of his or her office may be exercised by a person authorized pursuant
to law. The poundmaster's deputies, if any, may enforce any provisions of this
article that the poundmaster may lawfully enforce. (SBC § 13.01.21.)
(Ord. 836, § 1 (part))
§ 13.01.003 POUNDMASTER AUTHORITY GRANTED TO CITY OF HOLLISTER.
   (A)   Poundmaster authority is granted to the City of Hollister, who
maintains an Animal Control Bureau and Animal Shelter. This division is under
the direction of the Hollister Police Department.
   (B)   If at any time there should be no duly appointed and acting
poundmaster, the duties of poundmaster shall be performed by the City of
Hollister's Chief of Police or the Chief's duly authorized representative until
a poundmaster is appointed.
(HMC § 6.04.030)
   (C)   This section shall only apply as long as a valid agreement is in
effect between the City of Hollister and the County of San Benito in which the
City of Hollister, and/or its Chief of Police, as applicable, agree to perform
the duties of poundmaster.
(Ord. 836, § 1 (part))
§ 13.01.004 FAILURE TO PROVIDE INFORMATION.
   No person owning or having charge of any dog shall fail or refuse to state
his or her true name and residence address, or to exhibit evidence of rabies
vaccination required by this code, when requested to do so by the poundmaster
or his or her deputies or by any peace officer or by the county health officer
or the health officer's designees. (SBC § 13.01.113)
(Ord. 836, § 1 (part))
§ 13.01.005 REPORTING STRAY ANIMALS.
   Every person, excluding the poundmaster and his or her deputies, who takes
up and confines a stray dog or other animal, shall report, within 72 hours of
acquiring such stray animal, to the City of Hollister Animal Shelter that:
   (A)   The animal is confined in his/her possession;
   (B)   The animal shall be fully described as to physical characteristics;
   (C)   Whether the animal is vaccinated for rabies, and is licensed as
determined by the presence of two metal tags; and
   (D)   If rabies and licensure tags are present, the tag numbers and by whom
the tag was issued. (SBC § 13.01.023, as modified.)
(Ord. 836, § 1 (part))
§ 13.01.006 KEEPING OF SHEEP, GOATS, HORSES, DONKEYS, MULES, PONIES, COWS OR
OTHER LARGE ANIMALS.
   No person shall keep one or more sheep, goats, horses, donkeys, mules,
ponies, cows or other large animals within the county except on a parcel zoned
for such use.
(Ord. 836, § 1 (part))
§ 13.01.007 RUNNING AT LARGE PROHIBITED.
   No person shall permit any horses, mules, donkeys, ponies, cattle, sheep,
goats, or swine of which the person is the owner, caretaker or custodian to be
at large within the county. Any such creature shall be deemed to be at large
when it shall be off the premises owned or rented by its owner and
unaccompanied by the owner or an agent or employee of the owner, the caretaker
or the authorized custodian. (HMC §6.04.010, as modified to eliminate the
restrictions on rabbits, chickens, geese, ducks or turkeys.)
(Ord. 836, § 1 (part))
§ 13.01.008 RABID ANIMALS GENERALLY.
   The following are provisions relative to rabid animals:
   (A)   Knowledge of whereabouts. Any person having knowledge of the
whereabouts of an animal known to have rabies or suspected of having rabies
shall report the facts immediately to the health officer. The health officer
shall likewise be notified of any person or animal bitten by a rabid or
suspected rabid animal. The health officer shall be notified when any person is
bitten by an animal of a species subject to rabies, whether or not the animal
is suspected of having rabies. (HMC § 6.04.020)
   (B)   Isolation. Any clinically suspected rabid animal or biting animal
shall be isolated in strict confinement as follows:
      (1)   Any clinically suspected rabid animal shall be isolated in strict
confinement under proper care and under the observation of a licensed
veterinarian in the pound, in a veterinary hospital or in other adequate
facilities in a manner approved by the health officer and shall not be killed
or released for at least ten days after the onset of symptoms suggestive of
rabies.
      (2)   Any animal which bites or otherwise exposes a person to rabies
shall be isolated in strict confinement in a place and manner approved by the
health officer and observed for at least ten days after the day of infliction
of the bite; except, that the following alternative is permitted in the case of
dogs: Dogs which have been isolated in strict confinement under proper care and
under observation of a licensed veterinarian in a pound, veterinary hospital or
other adequate facilities, in a manner approved by the health officer, may be
released from isolation by the health officer after five days of veterinary
observation, if upon conducting a thorough physical examination on the fifth
day or more after infliction of the bite, the observing veterinarian certifies
that there are no clinical signs or symptoms of any disease. (HMC § 6.04.020,
with minor modifications.) The confinement ordered shall be at the owners'
expense.
   (C)   Euthanization. Unvaccinated dogs and cats exposed to a rabid or
suspect rabid animal should be euthanized immediately. An alternative to
euthanasia is immediate vaccination of the animal and placement in a strict
isolation for six months (180 days). Isolation provisions are at the discretion
of the local health officer and must preclude contact between the isolated
animal and other animals or the public. Euthanasia is strongly recommended for
unvaccinated juvenile animals due to their higher susceptibility to rabies
infection. Protocols for the post-exposure vaccination of previously
unvaccinated animals have not been validated, and there is evidence that the
use of vaccine alone will not prevent the disease. Dogs and cats that are
currently vaccinated should be revaccinated immediately and placed in strict
isolation for 30 days.
(Ord. 836, § 1 (part))
§ 13.01.009 [RESERVED.]
   Police Chief to perform poundmaster duties - HMC § 6.04.030. See §
13.01.003.
(Ord. 836, § 1 (part))
§ 13.01.010 INTERFERENCE WITH POUNDMASTER OR LAW ENFORCEMENT PROHIBITED.
   No person shall in any manner interfere or attempt to interfere with the
poundmaster or any law enforcement officer in the performance of any duty
imposed by the provisions of this chapter. No person shall unlawfully take or
attempt to take any animal seized pursuant to the provisions of this chapter
from the custody of the poundmaster or any law enforcement officer. No person
shall remove or attempt to remove from the public pound any animal impounded
therein without having first redeemed the same as provided in this chapter or
obtained permission of the poundmaster to do so. (HMC § 6.04.040)
(Ord. 836, § 1 (part))
§ 13.01.011 [RESERVED.]
   "Poultry" defined - HMC § 6.04.050.
(Ord. 836, § 1 (part))
§ 13.01.012 [RESERVED.]
   Registration with Health Department required - HMC § 6.04.060.
(Ord. 836, § 1 (part))
§ 13.01.013 [RESERVED.]
   Restrictions on keeping of poultry, rabbits and other small fur-bearing
animals - HMC § 6.04.070.
(Ord. 836, § 1 (part))
§ 13.01.014 [RESERVED.]
   Keeping of sheep, goats, horses or other large animals - HMC § 6.04.080. See
§ 13.01.006.
(Ord. 836, § 1 (part))
§ 13.01.015 CONSTRUCTION OF CERTAIN STABLES.
   (A)   Every stable or other building wherein any animals such as swine,
sheep, goats, horses, asses, donkeys, mules, ponies, cows or animals raised for
fur-bearing purposes are kept shall be constructed of such material and in such
manner that it can be kept clean and sanitary at all times. (HMC § 6.04.090)
   (B)   All manure, feces, soiled litter and other refuse shall be regularly
removed and stored in places where it will not be offensive to human beings or
domestic animals, or it may be cremated, if allowed by law. (SBC §
13.01.002, as modified.)
(Ord. 836, § 1 (part))
§ 13.01.016 MAINTENANCE OF STRUCTURES, PENS, ETC.
   (A)   All structures, pens, coops or yards wherein animals, poultry or birds
are kept or permitted to be kept shall be maintained in a clean and sanitary
condition, devoid of all rodents and vermin and free from objectionable odors.
(HMC § 6.04.100)
   (B)   The health officer, upon the complaint of any person, shall inspect
any such structure or premises and issue any such order as may be necessary to
carry out the provisions of this chapter. (HMC § 6.04.100, except that the
requirement that all interior walls, ceilings, floors be whitewashed or painted
has been deleted.)
(Ord. 836, § 1 (part))
§ 13.01.017 [RESERVED.]
   Cooking of waste matter used as animal feed prohibited - HMC § 6.04.110.)
(Ord. 836, § 1 (part))
§ 13.01.018 [RESERVED.]
   Fowl or animals which disturb peace - HMC § 6.04.120.
(Ord. 836, § 1 (part))
§ 13.01.019 [RESERVED.]
   Continuation of use of premises after annexation - HMC § 6.04.130.
(Ord. 836, § 1 (part))
ARTICLE II. DOGS
§ 13.01.020 RUNNING AT LARGE PROHIBITED.
   No dog, whether licensed under this chapter or not, shall be allowed to run
at large on any public street, alley, park, square, school or place; or upon
the premises of a person other than the owner, without the knowledge and
consent of such other person. All dogs shall be deemed running at large, within
the meaning of this chapter, unless under restraint by a substantial leash,
chain, strap or cord, not to exceed eight feet in length, attached to their
collars and actually held by an able bodied person or made fast to some
stationary object. The term "at large" shall mean off the premises of the owner
and not under restraint. (HMC § 6.08.010)
   (A)   Any dog found at large may be seized and impounded or cited by the
poundmaster. Private citizens may seize at large dogs if such dogs stray onto
public or private property other than that of the dog's owner. (SBC §
13.01.085, as amended.)
   (B)   Any dog maintaining watch over any herd or livestock shall not be
considered at large. Any dog free running that is a participant in an open
field trial shall not be considered at large. Any dog engaged in the process of
hunting wild animals, if under voice control of the hunter, shall not be
considered running at large. (SBC § 13.01.086)
   (C)   Proof that a dog was found at large in violation of any of the
provisions of this article, together with proof that defendant was the owner or
caretaker of the dog at the time, shall constitute prima facie evidence that
the defendant permitted the dog to be at large or otherwise act in violation of
the provisions of this article. (SBC § 13.01.092)
(Ord. 836, § 1 (part))
§ 13.01.021 VICIOUS OR DANGEROUS DOGS AND FEMALE DOGS IN HEAT.
   All dogs of fierce, dangerous or vicious propensities and all female dogs in
heat, whether licensed or not, shall be at all times confined in a substantial
pen in such a manner that no other dog, except another dog of the same owner,
may come in contact with such dog. If any such dog is found running at large in
violation of this section, it shall be taken up and impounded and shall not be
released except upon approval of the poundmaster after the payment of the fees
provided in §
13.01.037; provided, that if any dangerous, fierce or vicious dog so found at
large cannot be safely taken up and impounded, such dog may be slain forthwith
by the poundmaster or any law enforcement officer. (HMC § 6.08.020, as
modified)
(Ord. 836, § 1 (part))
§ 13.01.022 [RESERVED.]
   Keeping of more than three dogs in certain areas prohibited - HMC §
6.08.030.)
(Ord. 836, § 1 (part))
§ 13.01.023 VACCINATION REQUIRED.
   (A)   The owner of every dog over the age of four months shall ensure that
his or her pet is currently vaccinated for rabies by a licensed veterinarian
and secure a license. The provisions of this section shall not apply to any dog
that has been certified in writing by a licensed veterinarian to be unable to
undergo a vaccination on account of a danger to the health of the dog and if
the exemption is approved by the Health Officer or County Veterinarian.
   (B)   Within 28 days after primary vaccination, a peak rabies antibody level
is reached and the animal can be considered immunized. Dogs less than four
months of age must be confined at home or kept under close leash supervision by
the owner.
   (C)   Regardless of the age of the animal at initial vaccination, a second
rabies booster vaccination shall be given one year later, and the three-year
booster schedule followed thereafter. Because a rapid anamnestic response is
expected, an animal is considered currently vaccinated immediately after a
booster vaccination. An animal that is overdue for a rabies vaccine should
receive a booster as soon as possible and then be placed on a three-year
booster schedule.
   (D)   Any dog found to be in violation of vaccination requirements of this
chapter may be impounded and subject to the provisions of §§
13.01.035 et seq. (Reference: Cal. Health and Safety Code § 121690)
   (E)   Vaccination - cats. No person owning, having an interest in,
harboring, or having the care, charge, custody or possession of a cat shall
allow or permit such cat to go on the public streets in any manner, or to go
free and run at large in or upon any place outside of incorporated cities in
the county, unless such cat has been vaccinated with anti-rabies vaccine
approved by the health officer at intervals of not over three years. (SBC §
13.01.125; modified to allow intervals of up to three years.)
   (F)   Transportation of dogs or cats from areas where rabies exists. No
person shall take a dog or cat or permit or encourage a dog or cat to go from a
city or town in which rabies exists or has existed within six months
previously, or from a place in the county within five miles of which rabies
exists or has existed within six months previously, to any place in the county
in which rabies does not exist, or has not been known to be present within six
months. (SBC § 13.01.130) A USDA licensed feline rabies vaccine shall be
administered according to the vaccine label instructions.
   (G)   No person shall bring a dog or cat into the county from a county in
which rabies is present or has been known to be present within six months. (SBC
§ 13.01.130)
(Ord. 836, § 1 (part))
§ 13.01.024 CURBING DOGS.
   No person shall allow an animal in his or her custody or control to defecate
on property other than that of the animal's owner. It shall be the duty of any
person having custody or control of a dog to curb such dog and to immediately
remove such dog's feces to a proper receptacle. Sight-impaired persons shall be
exempt from this section with regard to their reliance on a guide dog. (HMC §
6.08.050)
(Ord. 836, § 1 (part))
§ 13.01.025 NOISE DISTURBANCES CAUSED BY DOG DECLARED A NUISANCE.
   It is unlawful for any person to keep any dog which by habitual howling,
barking or yelping or other noises, disturbs the peace of any person. (SBC §
13.01.090.)
(Ord. 836, § 1 (part))
§ 13.01.026 RABIES EMERGENCIES.
   (A)   Whenever it becomes necessary to safeguard the public from the dangers
of rabies, the Health Officer may issue a proclamation declaring a 30 day
period of emergency and ordering every person owning or keeping a dog to
confine it securely on the person's premises during such emergency period,
unless such dog shall have a muzzle of sufficient strength to prevent its
biting any person or animal. Any unmuzzled dog running at large during the
period of the emergency shall be seized and impounded unless noticeably
infected with rabies.
   (B)   All dogs noticeably infected with rabies and displaying vicious
propensities may be killed by the poundmaster or any law enforcement officer
forthwith and without notice to the owner. The provisions of §§
13.01.035 to
13.01.038 shall apply to all dogs not noticeably infected with rabies. If at or
near the end of the first or any subsequent 30 day emergency period, as
provided for in this chapter, the County Administrative Officer, or Board of
Supervisors believes that such emergency still exists, the Health Officer may
extend such emergency period from time to time for additional 30 day periods
until such emergency no longer exists. (HMC § 6.08.070, as modified.)
(Ord. 836, § 1 (part))
§ 13.01.027 DANGEROUS DOGS; REVOCATION OF LICENSES.
   All dog licenses issued as provided by this chapter may be revoked whenever
a dog is found to be dangerous. A dangerous dog is defined, for the purposes of
this chapter, to be a dog with the propensity to bite human beings. It shall be
prima facie evidence that a dog is dangerous when it has bitten any person;
provided, that such person is not trespassing upon the property of the owner.
(HMC § 6.08.090)
(Ord. 836, § 1 (part))
§ 13.01.028 CONFINEMENT AFTER HAVING TWICE BITTEN HUMAN BEINGS; REINSTATEMENT
OF LICENSES.
   (A)   In the event any dog shall have, on a second occasion, bitten a human
being other than a trespasser, such dog shall thereafter, if kept in the
county, at all times be confined in a secure pen, in such a manner that it
cannot escape, and such pen shall be inspected and approved by the poundmaster.
If such dog is in the animal shelter, it shall not be released until the
poundmaster has examined and approved such pen. If the owner of such dog shall
refuse to provide such pen, the dog may be disposed of as provided in §
13.01.038.
   (B)   If such dog has been confined in a pen at the home of the owner during
such second period of observation, instead of the animal shelter, the owner
shall continue to keep such dog in such pen after such period of observation
and shall sign a written agreement to keep such dog in such pen at all times
thereafter so long as it shall remain in the county. If the owner shall refuse
to unconditionally so agree, the license of such dog must be revoked and no
other license may be issued for such dog. The owner may, however, appeal to the
hearing officer for reinstatement of such dog license after such license has
been revoked as provided in this chapter, upon the ground that such dog is not
in fact of a dangerous disposition. (HMC § 6.08.100)
(Ord. 836, § 1 (part))
§ 13.01.029 DESTRUCTION OF DOGS WITH REVOKED LICENSES WHICH ARE NOT PROPERLY
CONFINED.
   (A)   Any dog whose license has been revoked upon the ground that it is a
dangerous dog shall forthwith be destroyed if it shall thereafter be observed
outside of the pen in which it shall be required to be confined. (HMC §
6.08.110)
   (B)   Prior to destruction, the owner shall have the opportunity for a
hearing. The hearing shall be conducted pursuant to the rules of procedure set
forth in §
13.01.045(B) through (E).
(Ord. 836, § 1 (part))
ARTICLE III. LICENSES
§ 13.01.030 LICENSE REQUIRED; FEES; TERM.
   (A)   No person, hereinafter called "owner," shall own, possess, maintain,
harbor or have control of any dog over the age of four months within the county
for a period in excess of 30 days, unless such dog is licensed as provided in
this chapter. Every owner so having any dog over the age of four months shall
apply for a license for such dog and shall pay a license fee which shall be
fixed by the Board of Supervisors from time to time by resolution. License fees
shall be paid to the animal control officer. Such licenses shall be issued
pursuant to a current rabies vaccination valid throughout the license period.
(HMC § 6.08.120, as modified.)
   (B)   Any dog found to be in violation of licensure requirements of this
chapter shall be impounded. (See Cal. Health and Safety Code § 121690)
(Ord. 836, § 1 (part))
§ 13.01.031 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   The owner applying for any license required by this chapter shall present a
valid anti-rabies vaccination certificate stating the date the dog was
vaccinated with anti-rabies vaccine, the type of rabies vaccine administered,
the name and address of the owner, the breed, color, sex and age of the dog and
signed by the veterinarian vaccinating the dog. Following presentation of the
valid vaccination certificate by the owner, the owner shall make application
for such license upon a form provided by the animal control officer, which
application shall state the owner's name and address, the name, breed, color,
sex and age of each dog owned or kept by the owner and the date the owner
acquired such dog if acquired after July 1st of the current license period.
(HMC § 6.08.130)
(Ord. 836, § 1 (part))
§ 13.01.032 APPLICATION FOR "SEEING EYE" DOG.
   The owner of a "seeing eye" dog, properly trained to assist blind persons,
when such dog is actually being used by such blind person for the purpose of
aiding the person in going from place to place, shall make application for a
license on such form and shall present such vaccination certificate but such
license shall be issued without charge. All other licenses shall be paid for
prior to the time they are issued. (HMC § 6.08.140)
(Ord. 836, § 1 (part))
§ 13.01.033 TAGS.
   (A)   On payment of the license fee required by this chapter, a license
certificate and a metallic tag shall be issued to the owner of each dog so
licensed. The number on the tag shall correspond to the number on the
certificate issued, and, in case of loss or destruction of the tag, a duplicate
shall be issued upon presentation of a receipt or certificate showing the
payment of the license fee for the current license term and the payment of a $2
fee for each such duplicate.
   (B)   Tags shall not be transferable from one dog to another and no refunds
shall be made on any license fee because of the death of the dog or the owner's
leaving the county prior to the expiration of the license term. Every owner
shall provide each dog with a collar to which the tag shall be affixed and
shall see that the collar and tag are constantly worn. (HMC § 6.08.150)
(Ord. 836, § 1 (part))
§ 13.01.034 CHARGES TO BE DEBT TO THE COUNTY.
   The amount of any dog license, together with penalties, impounding fees and
all other charges specified in this chapter, shall be deemed a debt to the
county and any person liable for the payment thereof shall be liable to an
action in the name of the county in any court of competent jurisdiction for the
amount thereof and also for the sum of $25 which, if judgment is recovered,
shall be applied as attorney's fees for the plaintiff or compensation for staff
time, and included in and assessed as recoverable court costs in such action.
(HMC § 6.08.160, as modified.)
(Ord. 836, § 1 (part))
ARTICLE IV. IMPOUNDMENT
§ 13.01.035 DUTY OF POUNDMASTER AND LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICERS; REGISTRY OF
IMPOUNDED DOGS.
   It shall be the duty of the poundmaster and every law enforcement officer to
apprehend any dog found running at large contrary to the provisions of §
13.01.020 and to impound such dog in the animal shelter or other suitable
place. The poundmaster, upon receiving any dog, shall make a complete registry,
entering the breed, color and sex of such dog and whether the dog is licensed.
If licensed, the poundmaster shall enter the name and address of the owner and
the number of the license tag. Licensed dogs shall be separated from unlicensed
dogs. (HMC § 6.08.170)
(Ord. 836, § 1 (part))
§ 13.01.036 NOTICE OF IMPOUNDMENT; RIGHT OF REDEMPTION BY OWNER.
   (A)   Not later than one day after the impounding of any dog, the owner
shall be notified or if the owner of the dog is unknown, written notice shall
be posted for four days at the City Hall describing the dog and the place and
time of taking. Notice may be given to the owner in person, by mail or by
telephone.
   (B)   The owner of any dog so impounded may reclaim such dog upon payment of
the license fee, if unpaid, and of all costs and charges incurred by the city
or county for impounding and maintenance of such dog. (HMC § 6.08.180, as
modified.)
(Ord. 836, § 1 (part))
§ 13.01.037 CHARGES AND FEES.
   The charges and fees to be paid to the animal control officer for services
performed pursuant to this chapter shall be fixed by the County Board of
Supervisors, from time to time. (HMC § 6.08.190, as modified.)
(Ord. 836, § 1 (part))
§ 13.01.038 DISPOSITION OF UNREDEEMED DOGS; DESTRUCTION OF DISEASED DOGS.
   The poundmaster shall keep all impounded dogs for the time period required
by law. If at the end of that time, such dog shall not have been redeemed, it
may be destroyed in some humane manner or otherwise disposed of by the
poundmaster. The poundmaster shall have the privilege of claiming any dog which
has been impounded in the animal shelter and which has not been reclaimed or
redeemed within the time specified in this section. Any dog which appears to be
suffering from rabies or infected with rabies, mange or other infectious or
dangerous disease shall not be released but may be forthwith destroyed. (HMC §
6.08.200)
(Ord. 836, § 1 (part))
§ 13.01.039 [RESERVED.]
   Records and reports by poundmaster - HMC § 6.08.210.
(Ord. 836, § 1 (part))
ARTICLE VI. DANGEROUS ANIMALS
§ 13.01.040 PURPOSE.
   The keeping of an animal defined as dangerous under this chapter shall be
declared a public nuisance and shall be abated in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter. The procedure for abatement of dangerous animals
set forth in this chapter shall not be exclusive and shall not in any manner
limit or restrict the county from enforcing other county ordinances or from
utilizing any other procedure or remedy provided by law. This chapter shall not
preempt or preclude a person from filing a private lawsuit seeking to abate as
a private nuisance an animal that is dangerous. (HMC § 6.13.010, as modified.)
(Ord. 836, § 1 (part))
§ 13.01.041 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   As used in this chapter, the following words and phrases shall have
the following meanings, unless the context shall indicate another or different
meaning or intent:
      ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER. Any person or entity designated under this
chapter as the animal control officer for the county, including, but not
limited to, any law enforcement officer or city/county employee designated to
enforce the animal control regulations of this chapter.
      DANGEROUS ANIMAL. Any of the following:
         (a)   Any animal which, when unprovoked, inflicts injury on or kills a
human being, or domestic animal.
         (b)   Any animal which, when unprovoked, engages in aggressive conduct
requiring defensive action by any person to avoid bodily injury.
         (c)   Any dog which, when unprovoked, chases or approaches a person in
a menacing fashion or apparent attitude of attack.
         (d)   Any animal owned or harbored primarily or in part for the
purpose of fighting, or any animal trained for fighting.
      ENCLOSURE. A fence or structure of at least six feet in height forming or
causing an enclosure suitable to prevent the entry of young children and
suitable to humanely confine an animal with adequate exercise area, and posted
with an appropriate warning sign, in conjunction with other measures which may
be taken by the owner of the animal. The enclosure  shall be designed in order
to prevent the animal from escaping. The animal shall be housed pursuant to
Cal. Penal Code § 597t.
      HEARING OFFICER. The person appointed by the County Administrative
Officer or Board of Supervisors to serve as the hearing officer under this
chapter.
      HEALTH OFFICER or COUNTY HEALTH OFFICER. Refers to the County of San
Benito Public Health Officer. HEALTH OFFICER/ COUNTY HEALTH OFFICER shall also
include the Officer's deputies.
      IMPOUNDED. Taken into the custody of the animal control officer or the
animal shelter.
      OWNER. The owner, custodian, keeper or person having custody, control or
possession of an animal.
      PERSON. A natural person or any legal entity, included but not limited
to, a corporation, firm, partnership or trust.
      POUNDMASTER. Refers to the poundmaster, or any designated deputies.
   (B)   A DANGEROUS ANIMAL does not mean any animal in a situation in which it
is shown that the person or domestic animal suffering the injury or damage had,
at the time of the injury or damage:
      (1)   Provoked, tormented, teased, abused or assaulted the animal into
the behavior alleged;
      (2)   Committed a willful trespass or other tort upon the private
property of the owner of the animal;
      (3)   Committed or attempted to commit a crime; or
      (4)   Threatened or committed an unjustified attack or assault against
the owner or person in control of the animal. (HMC § 6.13.020, as modified.)
(Ord. 836, § 1 (part))
§ 13.01.042 INSPECTION.
   Whenever it is necessary to make an inspection to enforce any of the
provisions of or perform any duty imposed by this chapter, or whenever any law
enforcement officer or animal control officer has probable cause to believe
that there exists in any building or upon any premises any violation of the
provisions of this chapter or other applicable law, a law enforcement officer
or animal control officer is authorized to enter such property at any
reasonable time and to inspect the same and perform any duty imposed upon a law
enforcement officer or animal control officer by this code or other applicable
law; provided, that:
   (A)   If such property is occupied, he or she shall first present proper
credentials to the occupant and request entry explaining the reasons therefor.
If such entry is refused, the law enforcement officer or animal control officer
shall have recourse to every remedy provided by law to secure lawful entry and
inspect the property, including an inspection warrant.
   (B)   If such property is unoccupied, he or she shall first make a
reasonable effort to locate the owner or other person having charge or control
of the property and request entry, explaining the reasons therefor. If such
entry cannot be obtained because the owner or other person having charge or
control of the property cannot be found after due diligence, the law
enforcement officer or animal control officer shall have recourse to every
remedy provided by law to secure lawful entry and inspect the property,
including an inspection warrant.
   (C)   Notwithstanding the foregoing, if a law enforcement officer or animal
control officer has probable cause to believe that the keeping or maintaining
of any animal is so dangerous as to require immediate inspection to safeguard
the life or safety of the animal, other animals, or the public, he or she shall
have the right immediately to enter and inspect such property, and may use any
reasonable means required to effect such entry and make such inspection,
whether such property be occupied or unoccupied and whether or not permission
to inspect has been obtained. If the property be occupied, the officer shall
first present proper credentials to the occupant and demand entry, explaining
the reasons therefor and purpose of the inspection.
   (D)   It is unlawful for any person to interfere with, hinder, fail or
refuse, after proper demand has been made upon him or her, to permit any law
enforcement officer or animal control officer to make any inspection provided
for by division (C) of this section. (HMC § 6.13.030)
(Ord. 836, § 1 (part))
§ 13.01.043 ANIMALS AT LARGE.
   (A)   Any owner of an animal who permits or causes the animal to run, stray,
be uncontrolled, or in any manner be in, upon, or at large upon a public
street, sidewalk, park or other public property or in or upon the premises or
private property of another person shall be guilty of an infraction or
misdemeanor if such animal bites, attacks or causes injury to any human being
or other animal.
   (B)   Any person convicted of violating division (A) of this section shall
not own, possess, control or have custody of any animal of the type, species,
group or family which caused the bite, attack or injury for a period of three
years after the date of conviction. (HMC §6.13.040)
(Ord. 836, § 1 (part))
§ 13.01.044 TEMPORARY IMPOUNDMENT OR CONFINEMENT.
   (A)   The animal control officer shall have the power to summarily and
immediately impound an animal where there is evidence that the animal is an
immediate danger to public safety pending:
      (1)   Any court proceeding; or
      (2)   A hearing to be held pursuant to §
13.01.045. The owner of the animal shall be liable for the costs and expenses
of impounding and keeping the animal if the animal is later determined to be
dangerous.
   (B)   It shall be a violation of this section for any person in control of
an animal subject to impoundment to fail or refuse to surrender the animal to
the animal control officer upon demand.
   (C)   An animal impounded pursuant to the authority of this section shall be
returned to the owner as provided by §
13.01.047, or when the animal is no longer required as evidence, or if a notice
of a hearing pursuant to §
13.01.045 to declare the animal a dangerous animal has not been served on the
owner or custodian within ten working days after the impoundment. (As modified
to add §
13.01.044).
   (D)   In lieu of impounding and if not contrary to public safety, the animal
control officer may permit the animal to be confined at the owner's expense in
an animal control officer approved kennel or veterinary facility or at the
owner's residence provided the owner:
      (1)   Shall not remove the animal from the kennel, veterinary facility,
or residence without the prior written approval of the animal control officer;
and
      (2)   Shall make the animal available for observation and inspection by
the animal control officer or members of law enforcement or their authorized
representatives. The animal control officer shall dictate to the owner the
exact way the animal is to be restrained while awaiting the hearing.
   (E)   The animal control officer may have an animal that has been impounded
or confined permanently identified by means of photo identification prior to
release from impoundment or confinement.
   (F)   If there is no reasonable method available to determine ownership of
the animal, then the animal may be considered a stray. (HMC § 6.13.050)
(Ord. 836, § 1 (part))
§ 13.01.045 HEARING PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Petition. If an animal control officer has investigated and determined
that there exists probable cause to believe that an animal is dangerous, the
animal control officer shall petition the hearing officer for a hearing for the
purpose of determining whether the animal should be declared dangerous.
      (1)   Petitions under this section may also be made by any law
enforcement officer. These procedures shall also apply to potentially dangerous
and vicious dogs as defined in Cal. Food and Agriculture Code, § 31603. (See
Cal. Food and Agriculture Code §§ 31601, et seq.)
      (2)   Rather than the provisions set forth in this code, the county may
also choose to utilize any procedures set forth in state law relating to
dangerous animals.
   (B)   Notice. The hearing officer shall notify the owner of the animal that
a hearing will be held, at which time the owner may present evidence as to why
the animal should not be declared dangerous. The notice, together with a copy
of the petition, shall be served upon the owner, either personally or by
certified mail. The hearing shall be held within no less than five working days
nor more than ten working days after the owner is served with notice.
   (C)   Conduct of hearing. The hearing officer shall conduct the hearing in
an informal manner and shall afford the owner of the animal an opportunity to
present evidence as to why the animal should not be declared dangerous. The
formal rules of evidence shall not apply; however, whenever possible, any
complaint received from a member of the public which serves as the evidentiary
basis for the animal control officer to find probable cause shall be sworn to
and verified by the complainant and attached to the petition filed by the
animal control officer. The hearing officer may admit into evidence all
relevant evidence, including incident reports and the affidavits or
declarations of witnesses; limit the scope of discovery; shorten the time to
produce records or witnesses; exclude witnesses from the hearing when not
testifying; exclude disorderly or disruptive persons from the hearing; and make
other orders necessary to ensure the fair and orderly conduct of the hearing.
The hearing shall be open to the public.
   (D)   Recording. The proceedings at the hearing may be tape recorded if
ordered by the hearing officer or requested by the owner of the animal or the
complainant referenced in division (C) of this section. A stenographic report
shall also report the proceedings if ordered by the hearing officer or
requested by the owner or complainant, with the costs thereof to be borne by
the person making the order or request. A copy of the tape recording or
transcript of the proceedings shall be made available to any person upon
request and upon payment of the cost of preparation thereof.
   (E)   Failure to appear. The hearing officer may decide all issues for or
against the owner of the animal even if the owner fails to appear at the
hearing.
   (F)   Determinations of dangerous animals; evidence. In making a
determination that an animal is or is not dangerous, evidence of the following
shall be considered:
      (1)   Any previous history of the animal attacking, biting or causing
injury to a human being or other domestic animal;
      (2)   The nature and extent of injuries inflicted and the number of
victims involved;
      (3)   The place where the bite, attack or injury occurred;
      (4)   The presence or absence of any provocation for the bite, attack or
injury;
      (5)   The extent to which property has been damaged or destroyed;
      (6)   Whether the animal exhibits any characteristics of being trained
for fighting or attack or other evidence to show such training or fighting;
      (7)   Whether the animal exhibits any aggressive characteristics or
unpredictable temperament or behavior in the presence of human beings or other
domestic animals;
      (8)   Whether the animal can be effectively trained or retrained to
change its temperament or behavior;
      (9)   The manner in which the animal had been maintained or cared for by
its owner;
      (10)   Any other relevant evidence concerning the maintenance or care of
the animal; or
      (11)   Any other relevant evidence regarding the ability of the owner to
protect the public safety in the future if the animal is permitted to remain in
the county.
   (G)   Dangerous animal declared. After the hearing, the hearing officer may
find, upon a preponderance of the evidence, that the animal is dangerous and
may make any order authorized by this chapter or other law. The decision of the
hearing officer shall be final. (HMC § 6.13.060)
(Ord. 836, § 1 (part))
§ 13.01.046 NOTIFICATION AND APPEAL.
   After a hearing conducted pursuant to this chapter, the owner of the animal
shall be notified in writing either personally or by first-class mail postage
prepaid, of the determination and orders issued by the hearing officer. If a
determination is made that the animal is dangerous, the owner shall comply with
the healing officer's determination and orders in accordance with the
established time schedule. If the animal control officer or the owner of the
animal contests the determination, he or she may, within five days of the
receipt of the notice of determination, appeal the decision to the San Benito
County Superior Court pursuant to Cal. Food and Agricultural Code § 31622. The
petitioner or owner of the animal shall serve notice of the appeal upon the
other party by personal service or first-class mail, postage prepaid. (HMC §
6.13.070)
(Ord. 836, § 1 (part))
§ 13.01.047 DANGEROUS ANIMALS; DISPOSITION.
   (A)   The owner of an animal which has inflicted injury upon or killed any
person or domestic animal, or has otherwise been determined to be dangerous,
may be required as a condition of the release of the animal from confinement or
impoundment, in addition to paying all costs of any impoundment, to comply with
the written disposition of the hearing officer which may contain any or all of
the following conditions, requiring the owner:
      (1)   Registration. To immediately register the dangerous animal with the
animal control officer, to comply with the animal control officer's
requirements for dangerous animals (including, but not limited to, requiring
the animal to wear a visible, dangerous animal tag), and to keep such animal
properly vaccinated at all times. The fee to keep or maintain one dangerous
animal shall be $50 for a 12 month period, and the fee for each additional
dangerous animal shall be $25. The fee shall be paid for each 12 month period.
Should the animal die in any 12 month period, the owner shall notify the animal
control officer of the death within two working days.
      (2)   Confinement. To keep the animal securely confined on its premises
in a locked enclosure approved by the hearing officer or the animal control
officer from which the animal cannot escape and into which children cannot
trespass. Such a kennel or structure must have secure sides and a secure top
attached to the sides. All structures used to confine the animal must be locked
with a key or combination lock when such animals are within the structure. Such
structure must have a secure bottom or floor attached to the sides of the pen
or the sides of the pen must be embedded in the ground no less than two feet.
All structures erected to house an animal must comply with all zoning and
building regulations of the county. All such structures must be adequately
lighted, ventilated, and kept in a clean and sanitary condition.
      (3)   Confinement while on leash. To keep the animal securely muzzled,
restrained by a substantial leash of appropriate length and under the control
of a responsible person 18 years of age or older who is physically capable of
restraining the animal when the animal is not contained in a locked, secure
enclosure.
      (4)   Spay or neuter the animal. To have the animal spayed or neutered by
a licensed veterinarian and to present proof to the animal control officer.
      (5)   Insurance. To provide and maintain financial responsibility for
injuries to the public by obtaining and showing proof of liability insurance in
the form and amount deemed to be acceptable by the hearing officer in light of
all the circumstances. Such insurance policy shall provide that no cancellation
of the policy will be made unless 30 days' written notice is first given to the
animal control officer.
      (6)   Notification.
         (a)   To immediately inform any city, county, postmaster or utility
company meter readers and anyone else that lawfully comes onto the property, of
the animal's dangerousness and to inform the animal control officer and/or the
hearing officer if the animal is moved to another location inside or outside
the county limits as provided in this chapter.
         (b)   The notification required by division (A)(6)(a) above shall
occur immediately, and in no case, later than two working days after the event
in question. Further, the owner shall inform the animal control officer within
two working days if the animal dies. (See Calif. Food and Agriculture Code §
31643.)
      (7)   Signs. To display in a prominent place on the premises a sign
easily readable by the public using the words "Beware of Dog" or "Beware of
Animal" in letters at least three inches high.
      (8)   Identification. To have a registration number assigned to such
animal tattooed by a licensed veterinarian on the animal's inner thigh or
inserted by a licensed veterinarian under the animal's skin by means of an
electronic identification device. The manner and method of identification to be
used hereunder shall be determined by the hearing officer. For the purposes of
this section, TATTOO shall be defined as any permanent numbering of an animal
by means of indelible or permanent ink.
      (9)   Inspection. To consent and agree to the entry upon the premises to
any law enforcement officer or animal control officer for the purpose of
inspecting the animal and/or premises.
      (10)   Payment of costs. To make reasonable payment of all costs incurred
by the city/county.
      (11)   Other. To take any other steps deemed reasonably necessary to
prevent injuries to the public.
   (B)   The owner of the animal shall comply with the conditions imposed by
the hearing officer within the established time limit.
   (C)   No dangerous animal shall be kept on a porch, patio or in any part of
a house or structure that would allow the animal to exit such building on its
own volition. In addition, no such animal may be kept in a house or structure
when the windows are open or screen doors are the only obstacle preventing the
animal from exiting the structure.
   (D)   If, following the hearing, the subject animal is found to be dangerous
and such a threat to public safety that even if reasonable conditions were
imposed to release the animal to the owner it would create a significant threat
to the public health, safety, or welfare, such animal may be destroyed as
permitted under Cal. Food and Agricultural Code § 31645 or its successor
provisions. Such remedy shall be in addition to all other remedies at law or in
equity and shall not limit or restrict such other remedies, including, but not
limited to, §
13.01.049(A), which authorizes the hearing officer to order an animal destroyed
for violation of this chapter or failure to meet a condition imposed by the
hearing officer.
   (E)   If, after notice, the owner of an impounded animal fails to appear or
be represented at the required hearing, the animal may be considered abandoned.
If the subject animal does not appear to be validly licensed and no owner can
be found, and if the animal has been determined to be dangerous, then the
animal may be considered abandoned and may be handled in the same manner as any
other unclaimed stray animal.
   (F)   If such an unlicensed animal has not been determined to be dangerous,
it shall be returned to the owner, subject to the issuance of a citation for
failure to obtain a license. A non-dangerous stray animal may be handled as any
other stray animal.
   (G)   In such cases where an impounded licensed animal is found to be
dangerous, the animal may be released subject to the conditions set forth in
division (A) of this section. (HMC § 6.13.080)
(Ord. 836, § 1 (part))
§ 13.01.048 TRANSFER AND TRAINING OF DANGEROUS ANIMALS.
   (A)   Sale or transfer within county. No person shall sell, transfer or in
any other way dispose of an animal deemed dangerous under this chapter or state
law to any person within the county unless the recipient resides permanently in
the same household and on the same premises as the owner of such animal.
   (B)   Sale or transfer outside county. The owner of an animal that has been
deemed dangerous under this chapter or state law may sell, transfer, or
otherwise dispose of such animal or the offspring thereof to persons who do not
reside within the county, provided the owner first notifies the animal control
officer of the proposed sale or transfer. Such notice shall be given not less
than 15 days in advance of the sale or transfer and shall specify the name and
address of the recipient person. Upon receipt of such notice, the animal
control officer may notify the governmental jurisdiction in which the recipient
person is located or resides. Failure to comply with these notification
provisions shall be grounds for immediate impoundment of the animal by the
county.
   (C)   Sale or transfer into county. It is unlawful for a person to possess,
own or control any animal for the purpose of either temporary or permanent care
in the county that has been deemed by another governmental jurisdiction to be
potentially dangerous, dangerous, vicious or a threat to the safety of human
beings or domestic animals. The animal control officer may order the person
having possession, ownership or control of the animal to remove the animal
immediately from the county. Should such person fail to comply with the animal
control officer's order, the animal control officer may summarily and
immediately impound the animal. The owner of the animal shall be liable for the
costs and expenses of impounding and keeping the animal. Such impounded animals
may then be disposed of in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
   (D)   Animal abuse and fight training prohibited. It is unlawful for anyone
to knowingly abuse any animal within the county, or to use, train, keep,
harbor, own or in any way possess or transport through the county an animal for
the purpose of animal fight exhibitions. Scars and wounds are rebuttal evidence
of participation in animal fight exhibitions or training. "Fight training" is
defined to include, but not limited to:
      (1)   The use or possession of treadmills for fight training;
      (2)   Actions designed to torment, badger or bait any animal for purpose
of encouraging said animal for fight exhibitions;
      (3)   The use of weights on the animal for fight training;
      (4)   The use of other animals for blood sport training;
      (5)   Any other activity, the primary purpose of which is the training of
animals for animal fight exhibitions.
   (E)   Reserved. (Rewards - HMC § 6.13.090.)
(Ord. 836, § 1 (part))
§ 13.01.049 ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTIES.
   (A)   It is unlawful for the owner of an animal deemed dangerous under this
chapter or state law to fail to comply with the requirements and conditions set
forth in this chapter. Any animal found to be the subject of a violation of
this chapter or of any condition imposed by the hearing officer shall be
subject to immediate seizure and impoundment. In addition, failure to comply
with an order of the hearing officer may result in the immediate removal of the
animal from the county or the destruction of the animal. No such animal,
however, may be destroyed until the owner of the animal has received written
notice from the county that the animal will be destroyed, unless within 14 days
from the date of the notice:
      (1)   The owner has demonstrated to the satisfaction of the hearing
officer that the owner has fully complied with the requirements and conditions
set forth in this chapter, including, but not limited to, the conditions
imposed by the hearing officer pursuant to §
13.01.047; or
      (2)   The owner has filed in a court of competent jurisdiction a petition
that seeks to stay destruction of the animal and has served a copy of such
petition upon the hearing officer. The notice from the hearing officer shall be
served upon the owner either personally or by prepaid first-class mail. If,
after 14 days from the date of such notice, the owner has not complied with the
provisions of division (A)(1) or (2) of this section, the hearing officer may,
without further notice or process, order the animal destroyed. (HMC § 6.13.100)
   (B)   In addition to any other remedy provided by the County Code,
violations of this chapter may be subject to the following penalty provisions:
      (1)   Any condition existing in violation of a county code is deemed to
be a public nuisance.
      (2)   In any proceeding or action by the county to abate a public
nuisance, the county is authorized to recover the expenses of abatement,
including its costs of inspection, investigation, enforcement activities, and
costs of prosecution. Costs may be determined, assessed and recovered
administratively, or by civil lawsuit or criminal prosecution.
      (3)   The county is authorized to judicially abate public nuisances by
filing criminal or civil actions, and to make the expense of abatement a
special assessment, or a lien against the property on which the nuisance is
maintained, and a personal obligation against the property owner.
      (4)   Administrative penalties. The county may impose administrative
penalties for the violation of any code provision in an amount not to exceed
$500 for each day during which any person commits, continues, allows or
maintains a violation of any provision of this chapter.
      (5)   Injunction and civil penalties. In addition to any other remedy
authorized by law, any provision of this chapter may be enforced by injunction
issued by the Superior Court upon a suit brought by the county. As part of a
civil action filed to enforce any provision of this chapter, a court may assess
a maximum civil penalty of $500 per violation, during each day during which any
person commits, continues, allows or maintains a violation of any provision
this chapter.
      (6)   Criminal penalties. Any person violating any provision of this
chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor or infraction, and may be charged with
either a misdemeanor or an infraction in the discretion of the arresting
officer. In addition, the Court shall be granted discretion to reduce a
misdemeanor to an infraction if it determines such action is in the interests
of justice. Any person convicted of a misdemeanor shall be punishable by a fine
of not more than $1,000 or by imprisonment in the county jail for a period of
not more than six months, or by both fine and imprisonment. Every violation
which is determined to be an infraction is punishable by:
         (a)   A fine not exceeding $100 for a first violation;
         (b)   A fine not exceeding $200 for a second violation of the same
ordinance within one year; and
         (c)   A fine not exceeding $500 for each additional violation of the
same ordinance within one year.
   (C)   Enforcement powers. The poundmaster and the poundmaster deputies and
any law enforcement officer are hereby authorized to issue a citation for any
violation of this chapter. Pursuant to the provisions of Cal. Penal Code §
836.5, the poundmaster and any designated deputies are hereby authorized to
arrest a person without a warrant whenever there is reasonable cause to believe
that the person has committed a violation of this chapter in his/her presence.
Upon making such an arrest, the poundmaster shall release the arrested person
pursuant to Cal. Penal Code § 853.6, the provisions which are hereby adopted by
reference as a part of this section. (SBC § 13.01.110)
   (D)   Each breach of this chapter shall constitute a separate violation.
Each day a violation is committed or permitted to continue shall constitute a
separate offense and shall be punishable as such.
   (E)   The owner of an animal determined to be dangerous under this chapter
shall be prohibited from owning, possessing, controlling or having custody of
any other animal of the type, species, group or family to which the violation
applies for a period of three years from the date of violation when it is found
after the hearing conducted pursuant to §
13.01.045 that ownership possession of such animal by that person would create
a significant threat to public health, safety or welfare. (HMC § 6.13.100)
   (F)   Any provision of this chapter may be enforced by the poundmaster, any
law enforcement department, the animal control officer or any authorized
designee of the County Administrative Officer. Complaints of any violations of
this chapter which are subject to penalties under this section may be presented
to the district attorney's office or to the county counsel's for prosecution.
(HMC § 6.13.100, as modified to delete enforcement authority of fire
departments.)
   (G)   The costs of abating a public nuisance pursuant to the provisions of
this chapter may be recovered from the owner of the animal causing the public
nuisance. If the owner fails to pay such costs within 30 days from the date of
invoice or within an extended period of time agreed to in writing by the
hearing officer, the costs may be collected by a special assessment lien. (HMC
§ 6.13.100, as modified.)
   (H)   The penalties and remedies specified herein shall not be exclusive but
shall be cumulative with all other remedies at law or in equity. The county
may, in its discretion, elect to pursue any one or more of the penalties or
remedies provided for herein or at law or inequity. (HMC § 6.13.100)
(Ord. 836, § 1 (part))
§ 13.01.050 EXEMPTIONS.
   The provisions contained in this chapter shall not apply to:
   (A)   Any dog while utilized by any law enforcement department or any law
enforcement officer in the performance of police work;
   (B)   Any animal shelter owned, operated or maintained by the animal control
officer; or
   (C)   Any licensed kennel, humane society shelter, animal control facility
or veterinarian. (HMC § 6.13.110)
(Ord. 836, § 1 (part))
TITLE 15: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
15.01.   SOLID WASTE REGULATIONS
      
15.03.   UNDERGROUND UTILITY DISTRICTS
      
15.05.   WATER
      
15.07.   SEWERS AND SEWAGE DISPOSAL
      
15.09.   PUBLIC PROJECTS
CHAPTER 15.01: SOLID WASTE REGULATIONS
Section
Article I. General Provisions
   
15.01.001   Findings
   
15.01.002   Definitions
Article II. Accumulation of Solid Waste
   
15.01.020   Solid waste containers; required
   
15.01.021   Solid waste containers; nature
   
15.01.022   Solid waste storage
   
15.01.023   Solid waste containers; roadside placement for pickup
   
15.01.024   Solid waste; removal and disposal
   
15.01.025   Solid waste; accumulation prohibited
   
15.01.026   Solid waste; removal and disposal to prevent hazard or nuisance
   
15.01.027   Dumping at unauthorized sites prohibited
   
15.01.028   Burning solid waste prohibited
   
15.01.029   Investigation; right of entry
Article III. Solid Waste and Recyclables Collection
   
15.01.040   Solid waste collection
   
15.01.041   Collection franchise
   
15.01.042   Board may require undertaking of collector
   
15.01.043   Collection franchisee must comply with conditions
   
15.01.044   Exemption from requirement of collection franchise
   
15.01.045   Scavenging - unlawful
   
15.01.046   Building permits; diversion plans
Article IV. Edible Food Recovery
   
15.01.050   Title
   
15.01.051   Definitions
   
15.01.052   Requirements for commercial edible food generators
   
15.01.053   Requirements for food recovery organizations and services
   
15.01.054   Inspections and investigations
   
15.01.055   Enforcement
Article V. Transportation of Solid Waste
   
15.01.060   Transportation of solid waste for deposit onto land in the
unincorporated area of the county
   
15.01.061   Origination of solid waste document
   
15.01.062   Non-exclusive franchise
   
15.01.063   Terms of franchise agreement
   
15.01.064   Regulation of transportation rates
   
15.01.065   Compliance with franchise agreement and provisions of this chapter
   
15.01.066   Exemption from requirement of transportation franchise
Article VI. Disposal of Refuse
   
15.01.080   Operation of disposal area prohibited without necessary
authorization
   
15.01.081   Requirements to dispose of solid waste in John Smith Landfill
Article VII. Enforcement
   
15.01.095   Violation of chapter; public nuisance
   
15.01.096   County officer’s duties
   
15.01.097   Abatement of nuisances
   
15.01.098   Violation of chapter; criminal
   
15.01.099   Remedies cumulative
ARTICLE I. GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 15.01.001 FINDINGS.
   The Board adopts this chapter based, in part, on the findings specified in
this section:
   (A)   The accumulation, collection, transportation and disposal of solid
waste involves substantial concerns about groundwater quality, air quality and
public health;
   (B)   In California, the generation of solid waste continues to grow in
volume, exacerbating these concerns;
   (C)   The State of California has recognized the concerns over these issues
caused by solid waste generation. In response to these issues, the state
enacted Cal. Public Resources Code Division 30 (§§ 40000 et seq.), entitled
“Waste Management”;
   (D)   The state has determined that the responsibility for waste management
is a shared responsibility between the state and local governments;
   (E)   In this regard, the state has imposed certain mandates upon local
governments such as the County of San Benito. The state has also preserved the
county’s authority to regulate solid waste in particular matters, including,
without limitation, matters which concern public health, safety and welfare as
well as matters of local concern;
   (F)   This chapter is enacted pursuant to the county’s general police power
to protect public health, safety and welfare and because the matters regulated
herein are of local concern. Such matters include the accumulation, collection
of, transportation of and disposal of solid waste in San Benito County. This
chapter is also enacted to promote, the purposes of Cal. Public Resources Code
Division 30. The chapter is consistent with the purposes of Cal. Public
Resources Code Division 30;
   (G)   The regulations contained in this chapter are adopted pursuant to the
authority specified in these findings because the public health, safety and
welfare require the regulations herein and because the accumulation of solid
waste in the county, the collection of solid waste location in the county, the
transportation of solid waste in San Benito County for disposal in the county
and disposal of solid waste in the county per se, are matters of local concern;
   (H)   Cal. Public Resources Code Division 30 recognizes the existing legal
authority of the county to restrict the collection, transportation and disposal
of solid waste in the county to those entities which possess franchises to do
so. The Board concludes that the problems of solid waste handling and the needs
of the public require the adoption of regulations for the collection,
transportation and disposal of solid waste; and
   (I)   The Board determines that the transportation franchise requirement
particularly is an essential component of the county’s solid waste program in
that the franchise requirement will encourage both recycling efforts and the
reduction of the waste stream. These goals shall be additionally accomplished
within local jurisdictions by the creation and implementation of the county’s
integrated waste management plan. By these regulations, the Board desires to
increase recycling efforts, reduce the waste stream and encourage local
economic efforts in accomplishing state waste management goals.
(1966 Code, § 25-1) (Ord. 619, § 2(part); Ord. 724, § 1(part))
§ 15.01.002 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context requires otherwise. In the absence of an express definition in this
chapter, the definitions provided in Cal. Public Resources Code Division 30, §§
40000 et seq., shall be used.
   BOARD. The Board of Supervisors of the County of San Benito.
   BULK CONTAINERS. Those containers larger than standard size household
containers (approximately 32-gallon size) or those that generally require
emptying by mechanical device.
   COMMERCIAL COLLECTION OR COMMERCIAL TRANSPORTATION OF SOLID WASTE. Occurs
when one person collects or transports the solid waste generated by another
person for consideration, or when a person transports or collects 1,000 pounds
or more of solid waste per load.
   CONTAINER. Any receptacle in which solid waste may be stored.
   COUNTY. The County of San Benito, a political subdivision of the State of
California.
   CONSTRUCTION OR DEMOLITION DEBRIS. The useless, unused, unwanted or
discarded construction materials used or removed from a site during the
construction, razing or renovation of a structure.
   DISCRETIONARY COLLECTION AREA. A geographic area designated or specified in
this chapter or by resolution of the Board of Supervisors in which solid waste
collection services may be provided by any individual or commercial enterprise
and which is not subject to exclusive franchise collection, in all places or
premises in the unincorporated area which generate solid waste including
commercial buildings.
   FRANCHISE. The right granted to a person to collect solid waste located in
the unincorporated area of San Benito County or to transport solid waste in the
unincorporated area of the county for disposal in the unincorporated area of
the county.
   MANDATORY COLLECTION AREA. A geographic area designated or specified in this
chapter or by resolution of the Board of Supervisors in which solid waste
collection services must be provided by the exclusive franchise collector to
all places or premises in the unincorporated area which generate solid waste,
including commercial buildings and where owner or occupier of the parcel must
subscribe to the services.
   PERSON. Without limitation, any individual, corporation, public or private,
for profit or non-profit; partnership; limited liability company; association;
municipality; public agency; or trust or entity of any nature.
   RECYCLABLES. Solid waste which is aluminum, glass bottles and jars, paper,
newspaper, cardboard (all fiber), plastic containers, tin and bi-metal, white
goods, yard or green waste and other material which can be processed and
returned to the economic mainstream in the form of raw material for new, reused
or reconstituted products which meet the quality standards necessary to be used
in the marketplace.
   SERVANT. Anyone who manifests, consents to act on behalf of, and subject to
the control of, another. For purposes of this definition, the right to control
is the right to control the physical aspects of the work performed by the
servant.
   SOLID WASTE. The same meaning as specified in Cal. Public Resources Code §
40191 or any subsequent amendments to § 40191. SOLID WASTE also includes
materials which are or may be recyclable or reusable. SOLID WASTE also includes
sewage.
   SOLID WASTE FACILITY. The same meaning as specified in Cal. Public Resources
Code § 40194 or any subsequent amendments to § 40194.
   SOURCE SEPARATION. The separation or segregation of solid waste, at the
place of generation or production of waste and resources for separate
collection, processing, recycling, reuse, recovery or disposal.
   TRANSPORTING SOLID WASTE. To move, or cause to be moved by any means, solid
waste from the site where generated or stored to another non-adjacent site
where disposed or stored.
   VOLUNTARY COLLECTION AREA. A geographic area designated or specified in this
chapter or by resolution of the Board of Supervisors in which solid waste
collection services must be provided by the exclusive franchise collector to
all places or premises in the unincorporated area which generate solid waste,
including commercial buildings and where owner or occupier of the parcel may
subscribe to the services.
   WASTE. Any material, solid, semisolid or liquid which are discarded or
unused materials, would be discarded or unused but for a secondary use or
reuse.
(1966 Code, § 25-2) (Ord. 619, § 2(part); Ord. 724, § 1(part); Ord. 739, § 1;
Ord. 749, § 1)
ARTICLE II. ACCUMULATION OF SOLID WASTE
§ 15.01.020 SOLID WASTE CONTAINERS; REQUIRED.
   (A)   Every person owning or possessing any land, dwelling or industrial,
commercial or business structure or premises, where solid waste is produced,
generated or accumulated, except for a person owning or possessing an approved
solid waste facility, shall provide and maintain on the premises suitable
containers of sufficient capacity to store the accumulations of solid waste
during the intervals between collection or disposal.
   (B)   Every contractor or builder engaged in the erection, demolition or
repair of a structure shall provide a container at or near the building for the
deposit and storage of any solid waste or demolition debris resulting from the
erection, demolition or repair work.
   (C)   In multiple-occupancy structures or premises, when solid waste
containers are not provided or maintained by the landlord, it shall be the
responsibility of the tenant to provide and maintain adequate, approved
containers.
(1966 Code, § 25-3) (Ord. 619, § 2(part); Ord. 724, § 1(part))
§ 15.01.021 SOLID WASTE CONTAINERS; NATURE.
   (A)   Container types. A solid waste container for other than bulk
accumulation shall be a watertight galvanized metal container, or its
equivalent, with a tight-fitting lid. The containers and covers shall be in
good repair, leakproof, free from holes, fly-tight and rodent-proof. Containers
shall be equipped with handles adequate to lift the weight of a full container
without breaking or bending. The container shall be maintained in a sanitary
condition by the owners or users thereof and covers shall not be removed except
for the purpose of placing solid waste therefrom.
   (B)   Maximum weight of filled containers. No person shall fill a container
for solid waste or recyclables so as to exceed 60 pounds in weight when filled.
   (C)   Source separation. All persons in the county shall separate all
recyclables from other solid waste generated at their premises and shall place
the recyclables into a different container so as to facilitate segregation at a
solid waste facility. An owner or agent of an owner of a multi-family rental
housing property with three or more units shall comply with its separation
responsibilities by establishing a collection and storage system at each
premise. The collection and storage system shall be submitted to the Planning
Department and county’s Health Officer for approval.
   (D)   Household hazardous waste. Every person in the county shall separate
household hazardous waste from solid waste and recyclables and shall dispose of
it only at a household hazardous waste collection facility or through programs
specifically provided by the exclusive franchise collector or the county to
collect household hazardous waste.
(1966 Code, § 25-4) (Ord. 619, § 2(part); Ord. 724, § 1(part); Ord. 749, § 2)
§ 15.01.022 SOLID WASTE STORAGE.
   (A)   During intervals between collection, transportation or disposal, the
storage, accumulation, collection, keeping, handling or maintaining of solid
waste on premises shall be performed in such a manner so as to discourage the
harboring and breeding of rodents and insects and the ready access to the solid
waste by dogs and other small animals, and so as not to objectionably and
unreasonably pollute the air, or so as not to constitute a fire or health
hazard.
   (B)   Other than at an approved solid waste facility, in any premises where
the volume of solid waste accumulates in excess of two cubic yards between
intervals of collection or disposal, the solid waste shall be stored in fire-
resistant containers approved by the local fire authority and in a manner
approved by the county’s Health Officer.
   (C)   Any industrial, commercial or business establishment wherein solid
waste is handled, produced or stored in large quantities shall have the solid
waste operation reviewed by the county’s Health Officer. The person in
possession of the establishment shall comply with such requirements as the
county’s Health Officer may deem necessary for the sanitary storage, collection
or disposal of solid waste on the premises in compliance with this chapter. Any
special requirements of the Health Officer shall be specified in writing and
transmitted to the person in possession of the solid waste operation.
(1966 Code, § 25-5) (Ord. 619, § 2(part); Ord. 724, § 1(part))
§ 15.01.023 SOLID WASTE CONTAINERS; ROADSIDE PLACEMENT FOR PICKUP.
   Solid waste containers shall not be placed adjacent to streets or roadways
to facilitate collection, transportation or disposal more than 24 hours prior
to scheduled collection, transportation or disposal time. The containers shall
be removed from the pickup site within 24 hours after they have been emptied.
(1966 Code, § 25-6) (Ord. 619, § 2(part); Ord. 724, § 1(part))
§ 15.01.024 SOLID WASTE; REMOVAL AND DISPOSAL.
   (A)   Solid waste containers on all premises shall be emptied and solid
waste shall be collected and properly disposed of not less than once a week.
The collection and disposal shall be by the authorized collector, except that
the premises’ occupants themselves may dispose of solid waste to a fully
licensed public disposal facility in accordance with this chapter and/or in
such manner and place as may be prescribed by the county’s Health Officer. The
county’s Health Officer may require collection or disposal at a different
frequency on premises where solid waste is produced in such quantities, or is
of such a nature, that the increased frequency is necessary to prevent the
occurrence of rodent and insect infestations, odor nuisances or threats to
public health, welfare or safety, or to accommodate reasonable economic
collection practice without impairment of the public health, welfare or safety.
   (B)   Any special requirements of the Health Officer shall be specified in
writing and transmitted to the owner and occupier of the subject premises.
(1966 Code, § 25-7) (Ord. 619, § 2(part); Ord. 724, § 1(part))
§ 15.01.025 SOLID WASTE; ACCUMULATION PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person owning or possessing any land, dwelling or industrial,
commercial or business premises or structure shall allow or permit any solid
waste to collect and accumulate upon or in any such premises or structure
except as otherwise provided by law.
   (B)   The provision shall not be construed to affect the following:
      (1)   Any authorized solid waste facility operating pursuant to law; or
      (2)   Any properly-conducted garden composting process carried on by a
person on his or her own premises producing compost only for use on the
premises, unless the operation constitutes a public nuisance.
(1966 Code, § 25-8) (Ord. 619, § 2(part); Ord. 724, § 1(part))
§ 15.01.026 SOLID WASTE; REMOVAL AND DISPOSAL TO PREVENT HAZARD OR NUISANCE.
   Solid waste on all premises shall be collected or properly disposed of at
such frequency as will prevent the occurrence of a hazard or nuisance
condition. For purposes of this chapter, a hazard or nuisance will be presumed
to exist if the frequency of collection or proper disposal exceeds one week and
residential accumulation exceeds two cubic yards.
(1966 Code, § 25-9) (Ord. 619, § 2(part); Ord. 724, § 1(part); Ord. 776, § 1)
§ 15.01.027 DUMPING AT UNAUTHORIZED SITES PROHIBITED.
   Except as otherwise provided by law and this chapter, no person or entity
shall deposit or discharge, or cause to be deposited or discharged any solid
waste, soil, or fill material in any place other than an approved solid waste
facility. No person shall allow or permit the deposit or discharge of solid
waste in violation of this chapter on property owned, controlled or possessed
by that person.
(1966 Code, § 25-10) (Ord. 619, § 2(part); Ord. 724, § 1(part); Ord. 776, § 2;
Ord. 1,020, § 1)
§ 15.01.028 BURNING SOLID WASTE PROHIBITED.
   Burning of solid waste is prohibited by state law. Any exemption to this law
is regulated by the Monterey Bay Unified Air Pollution Control District.
Vegetation may be burned only with the prior written approval (burn permit) of
the California Department of Forestry.
(1966 Code, § 25-11) (Ord. 619, § 2(part); Ord. 724, § 1(part); Ord. 776, § 3)
§ 15.01.029 INVESTIGATION; RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   The county’s Health Officer may, upon reasonable cause to believe that a
violation of the provisions of this chapter exists, investigate the situation
to determine whether such a violation does in fact exist. He or she shall have
the power, when in the performance of his or her duty and upon his or her
presenting his or her credentials and identifying himself or herself as an
employee of the county’s Health Department to the person apparently in control
of the premises, if available, to enter upon the premises with permission or
with a court order, to inspect any thing or condition which appears to be such
a violation. With the consent of the owner or occupier of the premises or
consistent with legal guidelines, he or she may examine the premises, things or
conditions, take such samples and make such tests as needed, and take any other
steps reasonably necessary for the proper investigation and determination of
whether such a violation exists.
(1966 Code, § 25-12) (Ord. 619, § 2(part); Ord. 724, § 1(part))
ARTICLE III. SOLID WASTE AND RECYCLABLES COLLECTION
§ 15.01.040 SOLID WASTE COLLECTION.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to commercially collect solid waste or
recyclables in the unincorporated area of the county unless the person has been
granted a franchise to collect solid waste or recyclables by the County of San
Benito, or unless the person is exempt from the franchise requirement.
   (B)   (1)   Mandatory collection area, collection required.
         (a)   The exclusive franchise collector shall collect all solid waste
generated from all residential, commercial and industrial properties in the
unincorporated county as designated on Exhibit A and all residential,
commercial and industrial property as designated in any resolution of the Board
of Supervisors establishing mandatory residential, commercial and industrial
collection services regardless of whether or not these services were requested
by the affected property owner or tenant.
         (b)   All residential county service areas consisting of ten lots or
more, now in effect and which shall become in effect, shall be designated
mandatory solid waste and recycling collection areas.
      (2)   Payment. Residential property owners and/or tenants and owners of
commercial and industrial businesses subject to the mandatory collection area
requirements pursuant to divisions (B)(1)(a) and (h) of this section shall pay
the rates as established in the franchise agreement, then in effect.
      (3)   Exemptions. Mandatory solid waste collection shall not apply to
those premises in mandatory collection areas which meet one of the criteria
specified in this division if the exemption has been applied for by the owner
or the exclusive franchise collector and granted by the county’s Health Officer
or his or her designated representative. The Health Officer shall cause
periodic inspections of the premises to be made and if it is found that solid
waste is present or that the property no longer qualifies for an exemption, the
regular solid waste collection shall be resumed forthwith at the expense of the
property owner.
         (a)   The property is undeveloped or is vacant;
         (b)   All solid waste generated on the premises is recycled or
composted; and
         (c)   Residential properties with long, narrow or steep driveways in
instances where the exclusive franchise collector, in the opinion of the Health
Officer, is unable to properly and safely utilize the collector’s equipment
when granting such an exemption does not create a nuisance for other
residences.
         (d)   Residents and businesses in a mandatory service area may opt-out
of collection and disposal services and the obligation to pay provided they can
provide proof/documentation that they are disposing of their refuse in a
legally permitted facility, recycling and/or composting.
   (C)   (1)   Voluntary collection area, collection not required.
         (a)   The exclusive franchise collector shall collect all solid waste
generated from all residential, commercial land industrial properties in the
unincorporated county as designated on Exhibit A and all residential,
commercial and industrial properties designated in any resolution of the Board
of Supervisors establishing voluntary collection services if the services are
requested by the affected property owner, tenant or business owner. If so
requested, all solid waste shall be collected from the residence or business as
designated pursuant to this division at least once a week.
         (b)   Exhibit A shall be amended to include page 1037 of Thomas
Brother Guide Maps, Edition 2002, Metropolitan Monterey Bay.
      (2)   Payment. Residential property owners and/or tenants and owners of
commercial and industrial businesses subject to the voluntary collection area
requirements pursuant to divisions (C)(1) of this section shall pay the rates
as established in the franchise agreement, then in effect.
   (D)   Discretionary collection shall occur in those areas in the
unincorporated area of the county not designated on Exhibit A as either
mandatory or voluntary collection areas. Solid waste collection which does
occur in the discretionary area shall be conducted in a manner which is in
compliance with all applicable regulations.
(1966 Code, § 25-13) (Ord. 619, § 2(part); Ord. 724, § 1(part); Ord. 749, § 3;
Ord. 776, § 4; Ord. 834, § 2)
§ 15.01.041 COLLECTION FRANCHISE.
   (A)   The Board may determine, pursuant to state law, if a collection
franchise shall be awarded exclusively or non-exclusively, with or without
competitive bidding. The Board shall specify the duration of the franchise
agreement or permit and shall specify, by resolution, an appropriate franchise
fee.
   (B)   The Board may grant non-exclusive solid waste collection franchise
agreements or permits for solid waste collection service in the discretionary
area, as defined in §
15.01.040(D). The Board may also grant non-exclusive collection franchise
agreements or permits for collection within the unincorporated county. The
franchise agreements or permits shall be known as “solid waste collection” and
“roll-off collection” and shall be granted subject to any franchise fees which
may be established, from time to time, by resolution of the Board. In no case
shall that franchise fee exceed that which is charged for the exclusive
franchise.
   (C)   The Director of Integrated Waste Management or designee shall have the
authority to grant non-exclusive solid waste and roll-off collection franchise
agreements or permits pursuant to the non-exclusive franchise or permit system
approved by the Board.
(1966 Code, § 25-14) (Ord. 619, § 2(part); Ord. 724, § 1(part); Ord. 776, § 5;
Ord. 834, §§ 3, 4; Ord. 1063, § 1, 2024)
§ 15.01.042 BOARD MAY REQUIRE UNDERTAKING OF COLLECTOR.
   The Board retains the authority and right to require, by resolution or by
franchise agreement, as a condition of the granting of a franchise for the
collection of solid waste that the solid waste collector shall file with the
Clerk of the Board an undertaking, in an amount and in a form to be fixed by
the Board in such resolution or franchise agreement. The undertaking, if
required, shall be conditioned to guarantee the faithful compliance with this
chapter and with the franchise agreement.
(1966 Code, § 25-16) (Ord. 619, § 2(part); Ord. 724, § 1(part))
§ 15.01.043 COLLECTION FRANCHISEE MUST COMPLY WITH CONDITIONS.
   A solid waste, soil, or fill material collector operating under a franchise
shall comply with all conditions specified in the franchise agreement and all
provisions of this chapter.
(1966 Code, § 25-17) (Ord. 619, § 2(part); Ord. 724, § 1(part); Ord. 1,020, §
2)
§ 15.01.044 EXEMPTION FROM REQUIREMENT OF COLLECTION FRANCHISE.
   (A)   The following persons are exempt from the solid waste collection
franchise requirement specified above and may collect the solid waste
enumerated below without approval of the county:
      (1)   A collector of animal waste and remains from slaughterhouses or
butcher shops for use as tallow;
      (2)   The owner or occupier of any parcel in the unincorporated area of
the county or the servant of any such owner or occupier who personally collects
and transports the solid waste generated on the parcel to a fully licensed
public disposal facility, except as provided in §
15.01.040(B)(1) of this chapter; and
      (3)   The collection of solid waste authorized by federal or state law if
the authorizing law preempts the requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   All exempt entities specified above shall comply with all sanitary
requirements for the collection, transportation and disposal of solid waste.
The existence of any collection exemption above do not necessarily imply the
existence of any transportation franchise exemption.
(1966 Code, § 25-18) (Ord. 619, § 2(part); Ord. 724, § 1(part); Ord. 749, § 4)
§ 15.01.045 SCAVENGING - UNLAWFUL.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to take,
steal or disturb any recyclable materials including newspapers, beverage cans,
glass, aluminum and plastic containers for food and beverage and any other
materials which may be designated for recycling provided however, that this
prohibition shall not apply to the owner, lessee, or occupant of a residential
dwelling or commercial building with respect to recyclable materials stored or
set out for collection by the owner, lessee, or occupant of a residential
dwelling or commercial building.
   (B)   No person, other than the customer who has contracted for service with
a permittee or a person with such customer’s consent, shall deposit refuse into
a commercial refuse bin, drop box or compactor placed in the unincorporated
area by a permittee for the purpose of receiving refuse.
   (C)   Nothing in this section shall limit the right of a person,
organization or other entity to donate or sell source separated recyclables
generated by such person, organization, or entity before they are deposited in
a container or a designated recycling collection location for collection by an
authorized recycling contractor. Once recyclables are deposited in a container
or commercial bin or a designated recycling collection location, the
recyclables become the property of the authorized recycling contractor.
§ 15.01.046 BUILDING PERMITS; DIVERSION PLANS.
   No building permit shall be issued until a solid waste diversion plan has
been submitted to and approved by the Integrated Waste Management Department.
Failure to submit a plan shall prevent the issuance of a building permit.
Permitees are required to divert a minimum of 50% of their waste. A permit
holder who has not diverted 50% of the construction or demolition waste from
disposal shall be required to pay the County of San Benito an amount equal to
the rate per ton for disposal of mixed waste at the John Smith Road Landfill
existing at the time the penalty is calculated times the number of tons of
waste that were not properly diverted as required by this section. Funds
generated from any penalties collected will be set aside in a separate fund for
waste diversion activities in the County of San Benito. Final occupancy will
not be signed off until the permitee has submitted their waste diversion
documentation and/or paid the penalty, if any, to the Integrated Waste
Management Department. Sample solid waste diversion plans shall be available
for permitees' use.
(Ord. 834, § 5)
ARTICLE IV. EDIBLE FOOD RECOVERY
§ 15.01.050 TITLE.
   This article is titled "Edible Food Recovery Ordinance."
(Ord. 1038, § 2, 2022)
§ 15.01.051 DEFINITIONS.
   The following definitions govern the use of terms in this article:
   CALIFORNIA CODE OF REGULATIONS or CCR. The State of California Code of
Regulations. CCR references in this article are preceded with a number that
refers to the relevant Title of the CCR (e.g., "14 CCR" refers to Title 14 of
CCR).
   CALRECYCLE. California's Department of Resources Recycling and Recovery,
which is the state agency designated with responsibility for developing,
implementing, and enforcing the SB 1383 Regulations.
   COMMERCIAL EDIBLE FOOD GENERATOR. Includes a Tier One or a Tier Two
commercial edible food generator as defined herein or as otherwise defined in
14 CCR § 18982(a)(73) and (a)(74). For the purposes of this definition, food
recovery organizations and food recovery services are not COMMERCIAL EDIBLE
FOOD GENERATORS pursuant to 14 CCR § 18982(a)(7).
   COUNTY. The County of San Benito.
   DESIGNATED ENTITY. An entity that the County of San Benito contracts with or
otherwise arranges to carry out any of the county's responsibilities of this
article as authorized in 14 CCR § 18981.2. A DESIGNATED ENTITY may be a
government entity, a private entity, or a combination of those entities.
   DESIGNEE. A staff person that the County of San Benito assigns to carry out
any of the county's responsibilities of this article.
   EDIBLE FOOD. Food intended for human consumption, or as otherwise defined in
14 CCR § 18982(a)(18). For the purposes of this article or as otherwise defined
in 14 CCR § 18982(a)(18), EDIBLE FOOD is not solid waste if it is recovered and
not discarded. Nothing in this article or in 14 CCR, Division 7, Chapter 12
requires or authorizes the recovery of edible food that does not meet the food
safety requirements of the California Retail Food Code, as codified in the Cal.
Health and Safety Code §§ 113700 et seq.
   ENFORCEMENT ACTION. An action of the relevant Enforcement Agency to address
non-compliance with this article including, but not limited to, issuing
administrative citations, fines, penalties, or using other remedies.
   ENFORCEMENT AGENCY. An entity with the authority to enforce part or all of
this article as specified herein. Employees and agents of an Enforcement Agency
may carry out inspections and enforcement activities pursuant to this article.
Nothing in this article authorizing an entity to enforce its terms shall
require that entity to undertake such enforcement except as agreed to by that
entity. The County of San Benito is an ENFORCEMENT AGENCY for purposes of
enforcing this article. Other public entities may be designated by the county
to serve as an Enforcement Agency for the county.
   ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. The County Administrative Officer of the County of San
Benito or designee.
   FOOD DISTRIBUTOR. A company that distributes food to entities including, but
not limited to, supermarkets and grocery stores, or as otherwise defined in 14
CCR § 18982(a)(22).
   FOOD FACILITY. Has the same meaning as in Cal. Health and Safety Code §
113789.
   FOOD RECOVERY. Actions to collect and distribute food for human consumption
that otherwise would be disposed, or as otherwise defined in 14 CCR § 18982(a)
(24).
   FOOD RECOVERY ORGANIZATION.
      (1)   An entity that engages in the collection or receipt of edible food
from commercial edible food generators and distributes that edible food to the
public for food recovery either directly or through other entities or as
otherwise defined in 14 CCR § 18982(a)(25), including, but not limited to:
         (a)   A food bank as defined in the Cal. Health and Safety Code §
113783;
         (b)   A nonprofit charitable organization as defined in Cal. Health
and Safety Code § 113841; and
         (c)   A nonprofit charitable temporary food facility as defined in
Cal. Health and Safety Code § 113842.
      (2)   A FOOD RECOVERY ORGANIZATION is not a commercial edible food
generator for the purposes of this article and implementation of 14 CCR,
Division 7, Chapter 12 pursuant to 14 CCR § 18982(a)(7). If the definition in
14 CCR § 18982(a)(25) for food recovery organization differs from this
definition, the definition in 14 CCR § 18982(a)(25) shall apply to this
article.
   FOOD RECOVERY SERVICE. A person or entity that collects and transports
edible food from a commercial edible food generator to a food recovery
organization or other entities for food recovery, or as otherwise defined in 14
CCR § 18982(a)(26). A FOOD RECOVERY SERVICE is not a commercial edible food
generator for the purposes of this article and implementation of 14 CCR,
Division 7, Chapter 12 pursuant to 14 CCR § 18982(a)(7).
   FOOD SCRAPS. All edible or inedible food such as, but not limited to,
fruits, vegetables, meat, poultry, seafood, shellfish, bones, rice, beans,
pasta, bread, cheese, coffee grounds, and eggshells. FOOD SCRAPS excludes fats,
oils, and grease when such materials are source separated from other food
scraps.
   FOOD SERVICE PROVIDER. An entity primarily engaged in providing food
services to institutional, governmental, commercial, or industrial locations of
others based on contractual arrangements with these types of organizations, or
as otherwise defined in 14 CCR § 18982(a)(27).
   GROCERY STORE. A store primarily engaged in the retail sale of canned food;
dry goods; fresh fruits and vegetables; fresh meats, fish, and poultry; and any
area that is not separately owned within the store where the food is prepared
and served, including a bakery, deli, and meat and seafood departments, or as
otherwise defined in 14 CCR § 18982(a)(30).
   HEALTH FACILITY. Has the same meaning as in Cal. Health and Safety Code §
1250.
   INSPECTION. An Enforcement Agency's electronic or on-site review of records,
containers, and an entity's collection, handling, recycling, or landfill
disposal of organic waste or edible food handling to determine if the entity is
complying with requirements set forth in this article, or as otherwise defined
in 14 CCR § 18982(a)(35).
   LARGE EVENT. An event, including, but not limited to, a sporting event or a
flea market, that charges an admission price, or is operated by a local agency,
and serves an average of more than 2,000 individuals per day of operation of
the event, at a location that includes, but is not limited to, a public,
nonprofit or privately owned park, parking lot, golf course, street system or
other open space when being used for an event. If the definition in 14 CCR §
18982(a)(38) differs from this definition, the definition in 14 CCR § 18982(a)
(38) shall apply to this article. For the purposes of this definition of LARGE
EVENT, "local agency" means all public agencies except those that are not
subject to the regulatory authority of the jurisdiction.
   LARGE VENUE. A permanent venue facility that annually seats or serves an
average of more than 2,000 individuals within the grounds of the facility per
day of operation. For purposes of this article and implementation of 14 CCR,
Division 7, Chapter 12, a venue facility includes, but is not limited to, a
public, nonprofit or privately owned or operated stadium, amphitheater, arena,
hall, amusement park, conference or civic center, zoo, aquarium, airport,
racetrack, horse track, performing arts center, fairground, museum, theater or
other public attraction facility. For purposes of this article and
implementation of 14 CCR, Division 7, Chapter 12, a site under common ownership
or control that includes more than one large venue that is contiguous with
other large venues in the site, is a single LARGE VENUE. If the definition in
14 CCR § 18982(a)(39) differs from this definition, the definition in 14 CCR §
18982(a)(39) shall apply to this article.
   NOTICE OF VIOLATION. A notice that a violation has occurred that includes a
compliance date to avoid an action to seek penalties, or as otherwise  defined
in 14 CCR § 18982(a)(45) or further explained in 14 CCR § 18995.4.
   RESTAURANT. An establishment primarily engaged in the retail sale of food
and drinks for on-premises or immediate consumption, or as otherwise defined in
14 CCR § 18982(a)(64).
   SB 1383. means Senate Bill 1383 of 2016, the Short-Lived Climate Pollutant
Reduction Act of 2016.
   SB 1383 REGULATIONS. The Short-Lived Climate Pollutants: Organic Waste
Reduction regulations developed by CalRecycle and adopted in 2020 that created
14 CCR, Division 7, Chapter 12 and amended portions of regulations of 14 CCR
and 27 CCR.
   SUPERMARKET. A full-line, self-service retail store with gross annual sales
of $2,000,000 or more, and which sells a line of dry grocery, canned goods, or
nonfood items and some perishable items, or as otherwise defined in 14 CCR §
18982(a)(71).
   TIER ONE COMMERCIAL EDIBLE FOOD GENERATOR.
      (1)   A commercial edible food generator that is one of the following:
         (a)   Supermarket.
         (b)   Grocery store with a total facility size equal to or greater
than 10,000 square feet.
         (c)   Food service provider.
         (d)   Food distributor.
         (e)   Wholesale food vendor.
      (2)   If the definition in 14 CCR § 18982(a)(73) of TIER ONE COMMERCIAL
EDIBLE FOOD GENERATOR differs from this definition, the definition in 14 CCR §
18982(a)(73) shall apply to this article.
   TIER TWO COMMERCIAL EDIBLE FOOD GENERATOR.
      (1)   A commercial edible food generator that is one of the following:
         (a)   Restaurant with 250 or more seats, or a total facility size
equal to or greater than 5,000 square feet.
         (b)   Hotel with an on-site food facility and 200 or more rooms.
         (c)   Health facility with an on-site food facility and 100 or more
beds.
         (d)   Large venue.
         (e)   Large event.
      (2)   If the definition in 14 CCR § 18982(a)(74) of TIER TWO COMMERCIAL
EDIBLE FOOD GENERATOR differs from this definition as to entities subject to
the regulatory authority of a jurisdiction, the definition in 14 CCR § 18982(a)
(74) shall apply to this article.
   WHOLESALE FOOD VENDOR. A business or establishment engaged in the merchant
wholesale distribution of food, where food (including fruits and vegetables) is
received, shipped, stored, prepared for distribution to a retailer, warehouse,
distributor, or other destination, or as otherwise defined in 14 CCR § 18982(a)
(76).
(Ord. 1038, § 3, 2022)
§ 15.01.052 REQUIREMENTS FOR COMMERCIAL EDIBLE FOOD GENERATORS.
   (A)   Tier One commercial edible food generators must comply with the
requirements of this section commencing January 1, 2022, and Tier Two
commercial edible food generators must comply commencing January 1, 2024,
pursuant to 14 CCR § 18991.3 or such later deadline established by state law or
regulations.
   (B)   Large venue or large event operators not providing food services, but
allowing for food to be provided by others, shall require food facilities, as
defined in Cal. Health and Safety Code § 113789, operating at the large venue
or large event to comply with the requirements of this section, commencing
January 1, 2024 or such later deadline established by state law or regulations.
   (C)   Commercial edible food generators shall comply with the following
requirements:
      (1)   Arrange to safely recover for human consumption the maximum amount
of edible food that would otherwise be disposed.
      (2)   Enter into a contract or other written agreement with food recovery
organizations or food recovery services for: (i) the collection for food
recovery of edible food that would otherwise be disposed; or, (ii) acceptance
of edible food that would otherwise be disposed that the commercial edible food
generator self-hauls to the food recovery organization for food recovery.
      (3)   Use best efforts to abide by all contractual or written agreement
requirements specified by the food recovery organization or food recovery
service on how edible food should be prepared, packaged, labeled, handled,
stored, distributed or transported to the food recovery organization or
service.
      (4)   Not intentionally donate food that has not been prepared, packaged,
handled, stored and/or transported in accordance with the safety requirements
of the California Retail Food Code.
      (5)   Not intentionally spoil edible food that is capable of being
recovered by a food recovery organization or a food recovery service.
      (6)   Allow the Enforcement Agency to review records upon request,
including by providing electronic copies or allowing access to the premises.
      (7)   Keep records that include the following information, or as
otherwise specified in 14 CCR § 18991.4:
         (a)   A list of each food recovery service or food recovery
organization that collects or receives its edible food pursuant to a contract
or written agreement established under 14 CCR § 18991.3(b).
         (b)   A copy of all contracts and written agreements established under
14 CCR § 18991.3(b) and/or this article.
         (c)   A record of the following information for each of those food
recovery services or food recovery organizations:
            1.   The name, address and contact information of the food recovery
service or food recovery organization.
            2.   The types of food that will be collected by or self-hauled to
the food recovery service or food recovery organization.
            3.   The established frequency that food will be collected or self-
hauled.
            4.   The quantity of food, measured in pounds recovered per month,
collected or self-hauled to a food recovery service or food recovery
organization for food recovery.
         (d)   If it has not entered into a contract or written agreement with
food recovery organizations or food recovery service, a record that describes:
(i) its direct donation of edible food to end recipients (including employees);
and/or (ii) its food waste prevention practices that result in it generating no
surplus edible food that it can donate.
      (8)   Tier One commercial edible food generators and Tier Two commercial
edible food generators shall provide, upon request, a food recovery report to
the Enforcement Agency that includes the information in division (C)(7).
Entities shall provide the requested information within 60 days of the request.
   (D)   Nothing in this article shall be construed to limit or conflict with:
(1) the protections provided by the California Good Samaritan Food Donation Act
of 2017, the Federal Good Samaritan Act, or share table and school food
donation guidance pursuant to Senate Bill 557 of 2017; or (2) otherwise
applicable food safety and handling laws and regulations.
   (E)   Nothing in this article prohibits a commercial edible food generator
from donating edible food directly to end recipients for consumption, pursuant
to Cal. Health and Safety Code § 114432(a).
(Ord. 1038, § 4, 2022)
§ 15.01.053 REQUIREMENTS FOR FOOD RECOVERY ORGANIZATIONS AND SERVICES.
   (A)   Food recovery services collecting or receiving edible food directly
from commercial edible food generators, via a contract or written agreement
established under 14 CCR § 18991.3(b), shall maintain the following records:
      (1)   The name, address, and contact information for each commercial
edible food generator from which the service collects edible food.
      (2)   The quantity in pounds of edible food collected from each
commercial edible food generator per month. This may also include the total
quantity in pounds of food collected that was spoiled when received from a
commercial edible food generator or otherwise not able to be used to feed
people.
      (3)   The quantity in pounds of edible food transported to each food
recovery organization per month.
      (4)   The name, address, and contact information for each food recovery
organization that the food recovery service transports edible food to for food
recovery.
   (B)   Food recovery organizations collecting or receiving edible food
directly from commercial edible food generators, via a contract or written
agreement established under 14 CCR § 18991.3(b), shall maintain the following
records:
      (1)   The name, address, and contact information for each commercial
edible food generator from which the organization receives edible food.
      (2)   The quantity in pounds of edible food received from each commercial
edible food generator per month. This may also include the total quantity in
pounds of food collected that was spoiled when received from a commercial
edible food generator or otherwise not able to be used to feed people.
      (3)   The name, address, and contact information for each food recovery
service that the organization receives edible food from for food recovery.
   (C)   Food recovery organizations and food recovery services that have their
primary address physically located in the county and contract with or have
written agreements with one or more commercial edible food generators shall
report to the county, or its designated Enforcement Agency, the total pounds of
edible food recovered from the Tier One and Tier Two commercial edible food
generators they have established a contract or written agreement with
(regardless of whether those generators are located in the county) according to
the following schedule:
      (1)   Tier 1: no later than August 15, 2022, submit an initial report
covering the period of January 1, 2022 to June 30, 2022; and
      (2)   Tier 2: no later than March 31, 2023, and no later than every March
31 thereafter, submit a report covering the period of January 1 to December 31
of the previous calendar year.
   (D)   In order to support edible food recovery capacity planning assessments
and similar studies, food recovery services and food recovery organizations
operating in the county shall provide, upon request, information and
consultation to the county, or the county, regarding existing, or proposed new
or expanded, food recovery capacity in a form that can be provided to or that
can be accessed by the county and the commercial edible food generators in the
county. A food recovery service or food recovery organization contacted by an
Enforcement Officer designated by the county, shall respond to such request for
information within 60 days, unless a shorter time frame is otherwise specified
by the Enforcement Officer.
(Ord. 1038, § 5, 2022)
§ 15.01.054 INSPECTIONS AND INVESTIGATIONS.
   (A)   The county's Enforcement Officer or its designated Enforcement Agency
is authorized to conduct any Inspections or other investigations as reasonably
necessary to further the goals of this article, subject to applicable laws.
   (B)   A person subject to the requirements of this article shall provide or
arrange for access during all inspections (with the exception of a private
residential dwelling unit) and shall cooperate with the Enforcement Agency
during such inspections and investigations. Such inspections and investigations
may include inspection of edible food recovery activities, review of required
records, or other verification or inspection to confirm compliance. Failure to
provide or arrange for access to the premises or access to records for any
inspection or investigation is a violation of this article and may result in
penalties.
   (C)   Any records obtained by the county's Enforcement Officer or its
designated Enforcement Agency during inspections and other reviews shall be
subject to the requirements and applicable disclosure exemptions of the
California Public Records Act as set forth in Cal. Government Code §§ 6250 et
seq.
   (D)   The county's Enforcement Officer or its designated Enforcement Agency
shall accept written complaints from persons regarding an entity that may be
potentially non-compliant with this article.
(Ord. 1038, § 6, 2022)
§ 15.01.055 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Violation of any provision of this article shall constitute an
infraction and will be grounds for
issuance of a notice of violation and assessment of an administrative citation
and penalty by the county's Enforcement Officer or its designated Enforcement
Agency.
   (B)   Enforcement actions under this article are issuance of an
administrative citation and assessment of a fine. Any section of this article
may be enforced by the county, or, if agreed to, by its designated Enforcement
Agency.
   (C)   A violation may be punishable by:
      (1)   A fine not exceeding $100 for a first violation;
      (2)   A fine not exceeding $200 for a second violation of the same
provision of this code within any 12 consecutive-month period;
      (3)   A fine not exceeding $500 for each additional violation of the same
provision of this code within any 12 consecutive- month period.
   (D)   The Enforcement Agency for the provisions of this article is the
county and any designated Enforcement Agency authorized by the county to
enforce one or more sections of this article.
(Ord. 1038, § 7, 2022)
ARTICLE V. TRANSPORTATION OF SOLID WASTE
§ 15.01.060 TRANSPORTATION OF SOLID WASTE FOR DEPOSIT ONTO LAND IN THE
UNINCORPORATED AREA OF THE COUNTY.
   It is unlawful for any person to commercially transport solid waste, soil,
or fill material generated outside or inside the unincorporated area of the
county into the unincorporated area of the county, unless that person has been
granted a franchise to so transport solid waste or unless the person is exempt
from the transportation franchise requirement.
(1966 Code, § 25-19) (Ord. 619, § 2(part); Ord. 724, § 1(part); Ord. 1,020, §
3)
§ 15.01.061 ORIGINATION OF SOLID WASTE DOCUMENT.
   It is unlawful for any person to transport solid waste, soil, or fill
material within the county without an origination of waste document. An
origination of waste document is a document which identifies the nature of the
waste, where the waste was located before it was loaded for transportation, the
estimated weight of the solid waste, a statement identifying the person in
possession of the solid waste before the transporter of solid waste took
possession of the solid waste and a statement identifying all transporters of
solid waste. The origination of solid waste document shall be signed by the
person in possession of solid waste before transportation of solid waste
commenced and all transporters of the solid waste certifying under penalty of
perjury the accuracy of the information contained in the origination of solid
waste document. The county shall prepare a standard origination of solid waste
document. The use of a copy of the standard form or any form substantially
similar shall comply with this section.
(1966 Code, § 25-20) (Ord. 619, § 2(part); Ord. 724, § 1(part); Ord. 1,020, §
4)
§ 15.01.062 NONEXCLUSIVE FRANCHISE.
   The Board shall approve by written resolution from time to time a non-
exclusive franchise agreement authorizing the transportation of solid waste in
the unincorporated areas of the county for deposit onto land in the
unincorporated areas. Following the approval of the agreement, the Integrated
Waste Management Director shall be authorized to execute such an agreement with
any person desiring to transport solid waste into the unincorporated area of
the county for deposit of the solid waste on land situated in the
unincorporated area. The execution of the franchise agreement shall create the
franchise. The Board may, from time to time, adopt any regulations governing
the issuance of transportation of solid waste franchises.
(1966 Code, § 25-21) (Ord. 619, § 2(part); Ord. 724, § 1(part); Ord. 739 § 3)
§ 15.01.063 TERMS OF FRANCHISE AGREEMENT.
   (A)   The franchise agreement shall provide for a term of one year which
shall renew automatically unless revoked.
   (B)   The franchise agreement shall provide for a franchise fee which shall
be based on the amount of solid waste transported in the unincorporated area
for deposit. The Board shall adopt a franchise fee by written resolution from
time to time, following a public hearing. Notice of public hearing shall be
posted in a newspaper of general circulation not less than ten days prior to
the date of the hearing.
   (C)   The franchise agreement shall provide for payment of the franchise fee
for intervals not longer than a quarter of a fiscal year, three months.
   (D)   The franchise agreement shall provide that the franchisees shall
prepare and file reports with the county to include, without limitation,
information about the volume and nature of solid waste, about the location
where the transported solid waste is generated, and information about
recycling/reuse efforts.
   (E)   The franchise agreement may require a bond as an undertaking to insure
compliance with this chapter and with other requirement imposed by law.
   (F)   The agreement may provide for collection of the franchise fee by the
operator of the John Smith Landfill.
(1966 Code, § 25-22) (Ord. 619, § 2(part); Ord. 724, § 1(part); Ord. 739 § 4;
Ord. 776, § 7)
§ 15.01.064 REGULATION OF TRANSPORTATION RATES.
   The Board reserves the authority to establish or change, by resolution, a
schedule of rates to be charged for the transportation of solid waste as
regulated by this chapter.
(1966 Code, § 25-23) (Ord. 619, § 2(part); Ord. 724, § 1(part); Ord. 776, § 8)
§ 15.01.065 COMPLIANCE WITH FRANCHISE AGREEMENT AND PROVISIONS OF THIS CHAPTER.
   A solid waste transporter operating under a franchise shall comply with all
conditions specified in the franchise agreement and all provisions of this
chapter.
(1966 Code, § 25-24) (Ord. 619, § 2(part); Ord. 724, § 1(part))
§ 15.01.066 EXEMPTION FROM REQUIREMENT OF TRANSPORTATION FRANCHISE.
   The following persons are exempt from the franchise requirement specified
above and may transport solid waste without the approval of the county:
   (A)   An owner or occupier of any parcel in the unincorporated area of the
county, or the servant of the owner and occupier who personally transports the
solid waste, generated only by residential activities on that parcel, to a
fully licensed solid waste facility. For purposes of this exemption,
RESIDENTIAL WASTE shall mean waste which is transported in an amount less than
1,000 pounds at a time;
   (B)   A transporter of solid waste that is to be temporarily stored in the
unincorporated area of the county, until the solid waste can be used, reused or
recycled as a raw material for manufactured products. For purposes of this
exemption, “manufactured products” does not include materials used as
amendments to soil or materials fed to animals;
   (C)   A transporter of solid waste authorized by federal or state law if the
authorizing law preempts the requirements imposed by this chapter;
   (D)   A person collecting solid waste in the unincorporated area of the
county pursuant to a franchise granted by the Board;
   (E)   A transporter of solid waste generated in an incorporated city in the
county under a collection franchise granted by that city if the solid waste is
deposited at John Smith Landfill; and
   (F)   The county, or its agent or contractor.
(1966 Code, § 25-25) (Ord. 619, § 2(part); Ord. 724, § 1(part); Ord. 739, § 2)
ARTICLE VI. DISPOSAL OF REFUSE
§ 15.01.080 OPERATION OF DISPOSAL AREA PROHIBITED WITHOUT NECESSARY
AUTHORIZATION.
   No person or entity shall operate a solid waste facility in the
unincorporated area portion of San Benito County without the approval of all
public agencies having jurisdiction to regulate the establishment or operation
of a solid waste facility.
(1966 Code, § 25-26) (Ord. 619, § 2(part); Ord. 724, § 1(part))
§ 15.01.081 REQUIREMENTS TO DISPOSE OF SOLID WASTE IN JOHN SMITH LANDFILL.
   (A)   No person engaged in the commercial transportation of solid waste
shall be permitted to dispose of waste in John Smith Landfill unless the person
shall possess an origin of waste document, a copy of which document shall be
presented to the operators of John Smith Landfill.
   (B)   No person engaged in the commercial transportation of solid waste
shall deposit solid waste in the John Smith Landfill without providing proof to
John Smith Landfill operators or to the County of San Benito that the person
has obtained a valid transportation of solid waste franchise from the County of
San Benito, or proof from the County of San Benito Integrated Waste Management
Department that the person is exempt.
   (C)   No person engaged in the noncommercial transportation of solid waste
shall be permitted to dispose of the solid waste in John Smith Landfill without
providing proof of residency in the form of a valid California driver’s license
or equivalent identification to the operator of the John Smith Landfill.
   (D)   For purposes of this section, a person engaged in the commercial
transportation of solid waste shall be any person attempting to dispose of over
one-half ton of solid waste.
(1966 Code, § 25-27) (Ord. 619, § 2(part); Ord. 724, § 1(part); Ord. 739, § 5)
ARTICLE VII. ENFORCEMENT
§ 15.01.095 VIOLATION OF CHAPTER; PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   (A)   The violation of any provision of this chapter or of any provision of
any franchise agreement authorized under this chapter is unlawful and is a
public nuisance. The violation shall be abated, eliminated and enjoined as
provided in
Chapter 1.03 of the San Benito County Code, except §
15.01.027 of this chapter which may be enforced through the issuance of
administrative citations. Notwithstanding the maximum fine amounts set forth
elsewhere in this code, fines for violations of §
15.01.027 shall be as follows:
      (1)   First offense: $2,500.
      (2)   Second offense: $5,000.
      (3)   Third and subsequent offenses: $10,000.
   (B)   The County Administrative Officer may designate any County department
or specific staff position to enforce §
15.01.027.
(1966 Code, § 25-28) (Ord. 619, § 2(part); Ord. 724, § 1(part); Ord. 1058, § 1,
2023)
§ 15.01.096 COUNTY OFFICER’S DUTIES.
   (A)   It is the duty of the county’s Health Officer and the officer’s
authorized representatives to enforce
Article II of this chapter.
   (B)   It is the duty of the county’s Director of Integrated Waste Management
to enforce Articles
III,
IV and
V of this chapter.
(1966 Code, § 25-29) (Ord. 619, § 2(part); Ord. 724, § 1(part); Ord. 724, § 1
(part); Ord. 776, § 9)
§ 15.01.097 ABATEMENT OF NUISANCES.
   In the event the appropriate county officer determined that a violation of
the provisions of this chapter exists, he or she may abate any condition
resulting therefrom as a public nuisance by any method authorized under the
law.
(1966 Code, § 25-30) (Ord. 619, § 2(part); Ord. 724, § 1(part))
§ 15.01.098 VIOLATION OF CHAPTER; CRIMINAL.
   Any person, firm or corporation, whether by action of its principal agent,
employee or otherwise, violating any provisions of this chapter is guilty of a
misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished as provided in this
code.
(1966 Code, § 25-31) (Ord. 619, § 2(part); Ord. 724, § 1(part); Ord. 1,020, §
5)
§ 15.01.099 REMEDIES CUMULATIVE.
   Except as otherwise provided by law, the remedies provided in this chapter
are cumulative and not exclusive. Nothing in this chapter is intended, or shall
be deemed or construed, to limit or impair the ability of the county, or any of
its officers, agents or employees to take any administrative or judicial
action, otherwise authorized by law, to abate any public nuisance.
Chapter 1.03 of this code is incorporated by reference as though its provisions
were fully set forth herein.
(1966 Code, § 25-31) (Ord. 619, § 2(part); Ord. 724, § 1(part))
CHAPTER 15.03: UNDERGROUND UTILITY DISTRICTS
Section
Article I. Definitions
   
15.03.001   Definitions
Article II. Establishment of Underground Districts
   
15.03.020   Board of Supervisors; public hearing
   
15.03.021   Board of Supervisors; powers and duties
   
15.03.022   Unlawful to maintain overhead wires
   
15.03.023   Overhead wires; exception by special permission
   
15.03.024   Overhead wires, poles, structures; exceptions
   
15.03.025   Notice to property owners and utility companies
   
15.03.026   Responsibility of utility companies
   
15.03.027   Responsibility of property owners
Article III. Master Plan
   
15.03.040   Underground utility district master plan
   
15.03.041   Findings
   
15.03.042   Resolution of intention; notice
   
15.03.043   Contents of master plan
   
15.03.044   Master plan constitutes a specific plan
   
15.03.045   Imposition of fees for development within proposed underground
utility district
   
15.03.046   Payment and deposit of underground utility conversion fees
   
15.03.047   Modification of obligation
   
15.03.048   Conditions of approval unaffected
ARTICLE I. DEFINITIONS
§ 15.03.001 DEFINITIONS.
   Unless the context otherwise requires, the definitions contained in this
section shall govern the construction of this chapter.
   COMMISSION. The Public Utilities Commission of the State of California.
   COUNTY. The County of San Benito.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, corporation, partnership, association and
their agents and employees.
   POLES, OVERHEAD WIRES and ASSOCIATED OVERHEAD STRUCTURES. Poles, towers,
supports, wires, conductors, guys, stubs, platforms, crossarms, braces,
transformers, insulators, cutouts, switches, communication circuits,
appliances, attachments and appurtenances located aboveground within a district
and used or useful in supplying electric, communication or similar or
associated services.
   UNDERGROUND UTILITY DISTRICT or DISTRICT. That area in the unincorporated
areas of San Benito County within which poles, overhead wires and associated
overhead structures are prohibited as such area is described in a resolution
adopted pursuant to the provisions of §
15.03.021.
   UTILITY. All persons or entities supplying electric, communication or
similar or associated service means of electrical materials or devices.
(1966 Code, § 17B-1) (Ord. 519, § 100)
ARTICLE II. ESTABLISHMENT OF UNDERGROUND DISTRICTS
§ 15.03.020 BOARD OF SUPERVISORS; PUBLIC HEARING.
   The Board of Supervisors of the county may, from time to time, call public
hearings to ascertain whether the public necessity, health, safety or welfare
requires the removal of poles, overhead wires and associated overhead
structures within designated areas of the county and the underground
installation of wires and facilities for supplying electric, communication,
television or similar associated service. The County Clerk shall notify all
affected property owners as shown on the last equalized assessment roll and
utilities concerned by mail of the time and place of the hearings at least ten
calendar days prior to the date hereon and shall provide the owners with a
summary description of the proposed underground utility district.
(1966 Code, § 17B-2) (Ord. 519, § 200)
§ 15.03.021 BOARD OF SUPERVISORS; POWERS AND DUTIES.
   If, after any such public hearing, the Board of Supervisors finds that the
public necessity, health, safety or welfare requires removal and the
underground installation within a designated area, the Board of Supervisors
shall, by resolution, declare the designated area an underground utility
district and order the removal and underground installation. The resolution
shall include a description of the area comprising the district and shall fix
the time within which the removal and underground installation shall be
accomplished and within which affected property owners must be ready to receive
underground service. The Board of Supervisors shall allow a reasonable time for
the removal and underground installation, having due regard for the
availability of labor, materials and equipment necessary for the removal and
for the installation of the underground facilities as may be occasioned
thereby.
(1966 Code, § 17B-3) (Ord. 519, § 205)
§ 15.03.022 UNLAWFUL TO MAINTAIN OVERHEAD WIRES.
   Whenever the Board of Supervisors creates an underground utility district
and orders the removal of poles, overhead wires and associated overhead
structures therein as provided in this chapter, it is unlawful for any person
or utility to erect, construct, place, keep, maintain, continue, employ or
operate poles, overhead wires and associated overhead structures in the
district after the date when the overhead facilities are required to be removed
by the resolution, except as the overhead facilities may be required to furnish
service to an owner or occupant of property prior to the performance by the
owner or occupant of the underground work necessary for the owner or occupant
to continue to receive utility service as provided in §
15.03.027 and for such reasonable time required to remove the facilities after
the work has been performed, and except as otherwise provided in this chapter.
(1966 Code, § 17B-4) (Ord. 519, § 210)
§ 15.03.023 OVERHEAD WIRES; EXCEPTION BY SPECIAL PERMISSION.
   The Director of Planning may grant special permission, on such terms as the
Director may deem appropriate in cases of emergency or unusual circumstances,
to erect, construct, install, maintain, use or operate, poles and overhead
wires, and associated overhead structures, not withstanding any other
provisions of this chapter. The Director of Planning may establish
administrative regulations specifying the emergency or unusual circumstances.
(1966 Code, § 17B-5) (Ord. 519, § 215)
§ 15.03.024 OVERHEAD WIRES, POLES, STRUCTURES; EXCEPTIONS.
   This chapter and any resolution adopted pursuant to §
15.03.021 shall, unless otherwise provided in the resolution, not apply to the
following types of facilities:
   (A)   Any municipal facilities or equipment installed under the supervision
and to the satisfaction of the Director of Planning;
   (B)   Poles or electroliers used exclusively for street lighting, fire alarm
boxes or emergency service;
   (C)   Overhead wires (exclusive of supporting structures) crossing and
portion of a district within which overhead wires have been prohibited, or
connecting to buildings on the perimeter of a district, when the wires
originate in an area from which poles, overhead wires and associated overhead
structures are not prohibited;
   (D)   Poles, overhead wires and associated overhead structures used for the
transmission of electric energy at nominal voltages in excess of 34,000 volts;
   (E)   Overhead wires attached to the exterior surface of a building by means
of a bracket or other fixture and extending from one location on the building
to another location on the same building or to an adjacent building without
crossing any public street;
   (F)   Antennae, associated equipment and supporting structures, used by a
utility for furnishing communication services;
   (G)   Equipment appurtenance to underground facilities, such as surface-
mounted transformers, pedestal-mounted terminal boxes and meter cabinets, and
concealed ducts; and
   (H)   Temporary poles, overhead wires and associated overhead structures
used or to be used in conjunction with construction projects.
(1966 Code, § 17B-6) (Ord. 519, § 220)
§ 15.03.025 NOTICE TO PROPERTY OWNERS AND UTILITY COMPANIES.
   (A)   Within ten days after the effective date of a resolution adopted
pursuant to §
15.03.021, the County Clerk shall notify all affected utilities and all persons
owning real property within the district created by the resolution of the
adoption thereof. The County Clerk shall further notify the affected property
owners of the necessity, that, if they or any other person occupying the
property desire to continue to receive electric, communication, television or
similar or associated service, they or the occupant shall provide all necessary
facility changes on their premises so as to receive the service from the lines
of the supplying utility or utilities at a new location, subject to applicable
rules, resolutions and tariffs of the respective utility or utilities on file
with the Commission.
   (B)   Notification by the County Clerk shall be made by mailing a copy of
the resolution adopted pursuant to §
15.03.021, together with a copy of the ordinance codified in this chapter, to
affected property owners as such are shown on the last equalized assessment
roll and to the affected utilities.
(1966 Code, § 17B-7) (Ord. 519, § 225)
§ 15.03.026 RESPONSIBILITY OF UTILITY COMPANIES.
   If underground construction is necessary to provide utility service within a
district created by any resolution adopted pursuant to §
15.03.021 of this chapter, the supplying utility shall furnish that portion of
the conduits, conductors and associated equipment required to be furnished by
it under its applicable rules, regulations and tariffs on file with the
Commission.
(1966 Code, § 17B-8) (Ord. 519, § 230)
§ 15.03.027 RESPONSIBILITY OF PROPERTY OWNERS.
   (A)   Every person owning a building or structure, and every applicant for a
zoning approval or other entitlement as specified in this section, the
applicant, whether owning, operating, leasing, occupying or renting a building
or structure within a district, shall perform construction and provide that
portion of the service connection on his or her property between the facilities
referred to in §
15.03.026 and the termination facility on or within the building or structure
being served, all in accordance with applicable rules, regulations and tariffs
of the respective utility or utilities on file with the Commission.
   (B)   In the event any person described in division (A) of this section does
not comply with the provisions of division (A) within the time provided for in
the resolution enacted pursuant to §
15.03.021, the Director of Planning shall post written notice on the property
being served and 30 calendar days thereafter shall have the authority to
request the disconnection and removal of any and all overhead service wires and
associated facilities supplying utility service to the property.
   (C)   In the alternative, if the above described work is not accomplished by
any person described in division (A) of this section within the time provided
for in the resolution enacted pursuant to §
15.03.021 of this chapter, the Director of Planning shall give notice in
writing to the person in possession of the premises, and a notice in writing to
the owner thereof as shown on the last equalized assessment roll, to provide
the required underground facilities within ten calendar days after receipt of
the notice.
      (1)   The notice to provide the required underground facilities may be
given either by personal service or by mail. In case of service by mail on
either of such persons, the notice must be deposited in the United States mail
in a sealed envelope with postage prepaid, addressed to the person in
possession of the premises at the premises, and the notice must be addressed to
the owner thereof as the owner’s name appears, and must be addressed to the
owner’s last known address as the same appears on the last equalized assessment
roll, and when no address appears, to General Delivery, City of Hollister. If
notice is given by mail, the notice shall be deemed to have been received by
the person to whom it has been sent within 48 hours after the mailing thereof.
The Director of Planning shall also cause a copy thereof, printed on a card not
less than eight inches to ten inches in size, to be posted in a conspicuous
place on the premises.
      (2)   The notice given by the Director of Planning to provide the
required underground facilities shall particularly specify that work is
required to be done and that the work shall be accomplished in conformance with
relevant county requirements, and shall state that if the work is not completed
within 30 calendar days after receipt of the notice, the Director of Planning
will provide the required underground facilities, in which case the cost and
expense thereof will be assessed against the property benefitted and become a
lien upon the property.
      (3)   If upon the expiration of the 30-day period, the required
underground facilities have not been provided, the Director of Planning shall
forthwith proceed to have the work done, provided, however, if the premises are
unoccupied and no electric or communications services are being furnished
thereto, the Director of Planning shall, in lieu of providing the required
underground facilities, have the authority to order the disconnection and
removal of any and all overhead service wires and associated facilities
supplying utility service to the property. Upon completion of the work by the
Director of Planning, shall file a written report with the Board of Supervisors
setting forth the fact that the required underground facilities have been
provided and the cost thereof, together with an assessor’s parcel number of the
property against which the cost is to be assessed. The Board shall thereupon
fix a time and place for hearing protests against the assessment of the cost of
work upon the premises, which the public hearing time shall not be less than
ten calendar days thereafter.
      (4)   The Director of Planning shall forthwith, upon the time for hearing
the protests having been fixed, give a notice in writing to the person in
possession of the premises, and a notice in writing thereof to the owner
thereof, in the manner herein above provided for the giving of the notice to
provide the required underground facilities, of the time and place that the
council will pass upon the report and will hear protests against the
assessment. The notice shall also set forth the amount of the proposed
assessment.
      (5)   Upon the date and hour set for the hearing of protests, the Board
shall hear and consider the report and all protests, if there be any, and then
proceed to affirm, modify or reject the assessment.
      (6)   If any assessment is not paid within five calendar days after its
confirmation by the Board, the amount of the assessment shall become a lien
upon the property against which the assessment is made by the Director of
Planning, and the Director of Planning is directed to turn over to the Auditor
and Tax Collector a notice of lien on each of the properties on which the
assessment has been paid, and the Auditor and Tax Collector shall add the
amount of the assessment to the next regular bill for taxes levied against the
premises upon which the assessment was not paid. The assessment shall be due
and payable at the same time as the property taxes are due and payable, and if
not paid when due and payable, shall bear interest at the maximum rate
permitted by law.
(1966 Code, § 17B-9) (Ord. 519, § 235)
ARTICLE III. MASTER PLAN
§ 15.03.040 UNDERGROUND UTILITY DISTRICT MASTER PLAN.
   To carry out the purposes of this chapter to provide planning basis for the
equitable allocation of costs associated with the conversion of existing
overhead utilities and to insure that adequate funds are available to complete
proposed underground utility conversion projects, the Board of Supervisors may
adopt, by resolution, an underground utility master plan.
(1966 Code, § 17B-10) (Ord. 519, § 300)
§ 15.03.041 FINDINGS.
   (A)   The Board of Supervisors finds and declares that the undergrounding of
utility services is a benefit that inures to property within an underground
utility district. It is appropriate and necessary for the preservation of the
health, safety and welfare and for the furtherance of the purposes of this
chapter that a portion of the cost for the undergrounding be paid by the
property owners in accordance with the benefits received.
   (B)   It is the further finding of the Board of Supervisors that payment of
assessments in accordance with the benefits received will be used to reimburse
the revolving funds or accounts as contemplated herein and shall be expended
only for expansion of, maintenance of or construction of underground utility
district and facilities.
   (C)   It is the further finding of the Board that the primary benefit of
underground utilities conversion insures to property being redeveloped for a
higher and better use. Consequently, it is equitable to impose assessments for
the work on the basis of benefits which accrue at the time that the property
liable for assessment is rezoned or is granted entitlement of use.
   (D)   It is the further finding of the Board of Supervisors that
redevelopment of property for a higher and better use necessarily intensifies
utility use beyond the capacity of existing aerial utility service facilities
to provide safe, adequate and beneficial service to the redeveloped property.
Therefore, conversion of the service is necessary and appropriate to serve the
new uses and to regulate the design and improvement of the uses.
(1966 Code, § 17B-11) (Ord. 519, § 305)
§ 15.03.042 RESOLUTION OF INTENTION; NOTICE.
   Prior to adoption of a master plan, the Board of Supervisors shall by
resolution indicate its intention to adopt such a master plan. The County
Clerk, when directed to do so by the Board of Supervisors, shall publish the
resolution of intention once in the official newspaper of the county. The
resolution of intention shall contain a map or maps depicting the underground
utility districts proposed in the master plan. Following a public hearing at
the time and place specified in the resolution of intention (or as the same may
thereafter be continued) the Board of Supervisors may adopt the master plan.
(1966 Code, § 17B-12) (Ord. 519, § 310)
§ 15.03.043 CONTENTS OF MASTER PLAN.
   The master plan shall contain the following elements:
   (A)   A depiction of all real property within each proposed underground
utility district;
   (B)   A proposed and tentative schedule for commencement and completion of
work in the proposed underground utility districts;
   (C)   An estimate of the cost of the underground utility conversion project
in current dollars;
   (D)   An allocation of such costs to the affected utilities in accordance
with their tariff on file with the Commission, the county and the real property
within the proposed district, including any offset of the costs to real
property as a result of prior payments;
   (E)   Special regulations relating to the development of property within the
proposed underground utility district;
   (F)   Such other matters which will accomplish the purposes of this chapter,
including procedure for the administration hereof; and
   (G)   Such rules as may be required by the Auditor to account for the funds
deposited pursuant to this chapter and the master plan.
(1966 Code, § 17B-13) (Ord. 519, § 315)
§ 15.03.044 MASTER PLAN CONSTITUTES A SPECIFIC PLAN.
   It is the intention of the Board of Supervisors that the master plan is
necessary and convenient for the implementation of the general plan of the
county. For such purposes and for purposes of the Subdivision Map Act, the
master plan shall be and is deemed a specific plan of the county.
(1966 Code, § 17B-14) (Ord. 519, § 320)
§ 15.03.045 IMPOSITION OF FEES FOR DEVELOPMENT WITHIN PROPOSED UNDERGROUND
UTILITY DISTRICT.
   (A)   Notwithstanding the provisions of the zoning code and subdivision
ordinance of the county and to the contrary, no property shall be reclassified;
no subdivision map or parcel map approved; no conditional use permit, variance,
general development plan or precise development plan approved; and no building
permit for construction of new multi-family residential, commercial or
industrial uses shall be issued unless and until the applicant therefore
deposits with the Auditor such fees for underground utility conversion as are
specified in or pursuant to the master plan.
   (B)   If the fees are paid following the completion of the underground
utility conversion project then the fee shall represent the pro rata allocation
of actual costs attributable to the property assessed on a front foot basis or
other such basis as in the opinion of the county is fair, just and equitable.
If the fees are paid prior to the underground utility conversion project then
the fees shall represent the pro rata allocation of estimated costs in current
dollars attributable to the property assessed on a front foot basis or such
other basis as in the opinion of the county is fair, just and equitable.
(1966 Code, § 17B-15) (Ord. 519, § 325)
§ 15.03.046 PAYMENT AND DEPOSIT OF UNDERGROUND UTILITY CONVERSION FEES.
   Fees payable under the terms of this chapter and the master plan shall be
paid in cash to the Auditor. The Auditor shall deposit such fund received
pursuant to this chapter in a separate fund or account for underground utility
conversion projects. All earnings on the sums deposited shall be credited to
the fund or account. Any refunds granted shall be paid only from the fund or
account.
(1966 Code, § 17B-16) (Ord. 519, § 330)
§ 15.03.047 MODIFICATION OF OBLIGATION.
   If, upon determination by the Board of Supervisors, the Planning Commission
or any county official or employee authorized by the Board of Supervisors to
grant a zoning approval or other entitlements as specified in §
15.03.045(A), feels that an undue hardship would result from the imposition of
the fees in the manner set forth in §
15.03.045, or that utility improvements to be made by the developer or owner of
property subject to the payment of a fee as provided in §
15.03.045, will reduce the cost of and be usable as a part of an underground
utility conversion project, the Director of Planning may authorize a
modification in the amount or manner of payment of the obligation. If utility
improvements in lieu of all or a portion of the fee are to be approved, the fee
shall be reduced by the cost of the utility improvements, as estimated by the
serving utility companies. If deferred payment of improvements are approved,
the approval shall be by written agreement with adequate security therefore
executed by the property owner or authorized representative of property owner,
to undertake the improvements or make the payments at the time that the
underground utility conversion project is commenced. Standards for modification
of obligations in accordance with this section shall be set forth in detail in
the master plan.
(1966 Code, § 17B-17) (Ord. 519, § 335)
§ 15.03.048 CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL UNAFFECTED.
   Nothing contained in this article shall be construed to prohibit or limit
the attachment of conditions to any subdivision or parcel map or entitlement of
use otherwise provided by law.
(1966 Code, § 17B-18) (Ord. 519, § 340)
CHAPTER 15.05: WATER
Section
Article I. Groundwater Aquifer Protections
   
15.05.001   Findings
   
15.05.002   Definitions
   
15.05.003   Mining of groundwater prohibited
   
15.05.004   Permit required for extraction of groundwater for use off-parcel
   
15.05.005   Permit required for injection of imported water into groundwater
basins or aquifers
   
15.05.006   Reserved
   
15.05.007   Application for permit
   
15.05.008   Public hearing on issuance of permit
   
15.05.009   Granting of permit
   
15.05.010   Appeal
   
15.05.011   Finality of decision
   
15.05.012   Annual review of permit
   
15.05.013   Inspection
   
15.05.014   Emergency
   
15.05.015   Enforcement
   
15.05.016   Applicability
   
15.05.017   Enforcement; exemptions
Article II. Local Small Water Systems
   
15.05.030   Declaration of purpose
   
15.05.031   Definitions
   
15.05.032   Permits
   
15.05.033   Exemption requirement of permit
   
15.05.034   Application for permit
   
15.05.035   Issuance of permit
   
15.05.036   Quality standards
   
15.05.037   Quantity standards
   
15.05.038   Storage requirements
   
15.05.039   Sealing or destruction of substandard wells
   
15.05.040   Natural or unintentional destruction of wells
   
15.05.041   Inspection and right of entry
   
15.05.042   Denial or revocation of permit hearing
   
15.05.043   Enforcement
   
15.05.044   Appeals
Article III. Well Standards
Subarticle I. Purpose and Definitions
   
15.05.060   Intent of article
   
15.05.061   Definitions and interpretation
Subarticle II. Permits
   
15.05.075   Permits and applications
   
15.05.076   Application procedure
   
15.05.077   Filing fees
   
15.05.078   Permit conditions
   
15.05.079   Permit; denial
   
15.05.080   Permit; expiration
   
15.05.081   Permit; suspension and revocation
Subarticle III. Well Standards
   
15.05.095   Well standards
Subarticle IV. Variances
   
15.05.110   Variances
Subarticle V. Groundwater Protection
   
15.05.125   Special groundwater protection
Subarticle VI. Inspections
   
15.05.140   Inspections generally
   
15.05.141   Initial inspection
   
15.05.142   Inspection of well seal
   
15.05.143   Final inspection
   
15.05.144   Waiver of inspections
Subarticle VII. Completion Reports
   
15.05.160   Completion reports generally
   
15.05.161   Submittal of state “report of completion”
   
15.05.162   Confidentiality of report
   
15.05.163   Other agency’s requirements
Subarticle VIII. Appeals
   
15.05.175   Right of hearing
   
15.05.176   Action by the Board
Subarticle IX. Abatement
   
15.05.190   Abatement of abandoned wells
Subarticle X. Violation; Penalty; Enforcement
   
15.05.205   Violation of article; criminal
   
15.05.206   Violation of article; public nuisance
   
15.05.207   Remedies cumulative
   
15.05.208   Right of entry, inspection and reporting
   
15.05.209   Enforcing agency
Article IV. Water Conservation
   
15.05.225   Findings
   
15.05.226   Purpose; development of water conservation practices
   
15.05.227   First phase; Planning Commission review
   
15.05.228   Second phase; preliminary water conservation plan
   
15.05.229   Third phase; final water conservation plan
   
15.05.230   Procedure
Article V. County Service Area No. 31 Water Conservation Ordinance
   
15.05.245   Definitions
   
15.05.246   Application
   
15.05.247   Administrative requirements
   
15.05.248   Permanent water conservation requirements - water conservation
measures
   
15.05.249   Permanent water conservation measures - water allotment, general
provisions for domestic and agricultural water allotments
   
15.05.250   Conservation measures - agricultural water supply: allotments
   
15.05.251   Permanent water conservation measures - domestic supply: allotments
   
15.05.252   Enforcement
   
15.05.253   Hardship waiver
   
15.05.254   Violations and remedies
   
15.05.255   Criminal penalties
   
15.05.256   Civil administrative fines
   
15.05.257   Disconnection from water service
   
15.05.258   Nuisances, abatement, injunctive relief
Editor’s note:
   The prior ordinance history for
Article III, Well Standards, is: Ords. 561, 562, 569 and 570.
ARTICLE I. GROUNDWATER AQUIFER PROTECTIONS
§ 15.05.001 FINDINGS.
   The Board of Supervisors of the County of San Benito finds and declares as
follows.
   (A)   Imprudent operation of water wells, including, but not limited to,
unfettered extraction of groundwater, especially for use on lands other than
that from which the water is extracted, creates the potential of severe adverse
environmental and economic impacts. The potential environmental and economic
impacts of the withdrawal of groundwater and the introduction of imported
groundwater into the aquifers threaten individuals, communities and the County
of San Benito as a whole.
   (B)   There is no state system which provides for review of proposed
extractions of groundwater for use on lands other than those from which the
water is extracted. Therefore, proposed extractions are not subjected to
scrutiny for adverse impacts on the persons or communities which may be, or
would be, impacted by the extractions. Nor is there any requirement, except for
projects subjected by San Benito County to CEQA review, which provides that
person adversely affected by the proposed extractions shall be given actual or
constructive notice of the proposed extractions and an opportunity to be heard
respecting the proposals.
   (C)   Presently no state system exists under which such operation of wells
are regulated in a meaningful manner. While Cal. Water Code §§ 1215 et seq. and
§§ 10750 et seq. provide for the adoption, in limited situations of groundwater
management plans by certain entities, they are not exclusive and are inadequate
to address all of the concerns affecting the personal health and economic
welfare of the residents of the County of San Benito.
   (D)   This chapter, in the judgment of the Board of Supervisors, is an
appropriate exercise of the police power by the County of San Benito
establishing:
      (1)   A permit requirement on conduct which consists of extracting
groundwater from one parcel of land for use on another parcel or parcels of
land not within the same sub-basin from which the groundwater is extracted or
any other use that would export water that is not within the same sub-basin as
described in the San Benito County Water District Annual Groundwater Report;
      (2)   A permit requirement on conduct which consists of injecting
imported water into the groundwater basins and aquifers of San Benito County;
      (3)   Restrictions on the operation of wells in a manner which would, or
could, adversely affect the operations of wells on adjoining property owned by
others; and
      (4)   A system by which the Board of Supervisors can determine the
availability of water resources and relative priority of new water uses for
discretionary land uses, including projects approved prior to the effective
date of the ordinance codified in this article, protect the safe yield of San
Benito County water resources and promote the prudent and orderly economic
development in unincorporated areas of the county and the welfare of San Benito
County and its citizens.
(1966 Code, § 7C-1.00) (Ord. 664, § 1(part); Ord. 778, § 1(part); Ord. 921, §
1, 2013)
§ 15.05.002 DEFINITIONS.
   The following definitions apply to this article.
   ADMINISTRATOR. The person to whom authority and responsibility for
implementing and enforcing this article is delegated by the enforcing agency.
The Administrator shall have the power to hold hearings, certify environmental
review documents, issue, condition, revise and revoke permits and to designate
deputies to assist in carrying out these duties.
   CONJUNCTIVE USE or CONJUNCTIVE OPERATION. The coordinated operation of a
groundwater basin and surface water supplies to artificially recharge a basin
during rainy seasons or years of above-average precipitation so that
groundwater can be withdrawn during dry seasons or years of below-average
precipitation when surface supplies are less than normal. CONJUNCTIVE OPERATION
also refers to meeting the needs of an area within the county through the
coordinated use of groundwater during years when surface water is not
available.
   CULTURE or LAND USE. The use or land cover existing under natural conditions
or as modified by humans.
   DOMESTIC WATER SERVICE. A water distribution system for the provision of
water exclusively to residential, commercial and related land uses, including,
but not limited to, water used within a residence or commercial building and
irrigation of landscaping, water distribution system used for the irrigation of
non-commercial agriculture crops or a water distribution system providing water
intended for use within the area of a subdivision with an approved tentative or
final map.
   DOMESTIC WATER WELL. A well devoted exclusively to the residential and
related yard, garden and barnyard uses within the curtilage of a dwelling
located on the same parcel of land as the served dwelling house or upon another
parcel of land respecting which the owner of the served dwelling has a legally
cognizable interest in the nature of real property. Such uses as recognized in
this section do not include the growing of crops, or production of other
agricultural commodities for commercial purposes.
   ENFORCING AGENCY. San Benito County Water District, which is hereby
appointed to be and shall be the enforcing agency, as that term is used in this
article, and is delegated the authority of the county in implementing and
enforcing this article. The ENFORCING AGENCY may appoint an Administrator, and
the authority of the enforcing agency shall be exercised by its duly appointed
Administrator, except as to such actions as are required to be taken by the
Board of the enforcing agency, such as the hearing of appeals from the actions
of the Administrator.
   EXTRACT. To withdraw by physical process.
   GROUNDWATER AQUIFER, CONFINED. A body of groundwater overlain by material
sufficiently impervious to sever free hydraulic connection with overlying
groundwater except at the intake.
   GROUNDWATER, CONFINED. Water in the zone of saturation. GROUNDWATER is
presumed to be percolating, although it may also occur in known and definite
channels.
   GROUNDWATER, FREE (UNCONFINED). Groundwater found in the zone of saturation
whenever the upper surface of the zone forms a water table under atmospheric
pressure, free to rise and fall with changes in volume of stored water.
   HYDRAULIC GRADIENT. The slope of the groundwater table.
   HYDROLOGY. The origin, distribution and circulation of water through
precipitation, streamflow, infiltration, groundwater storage and evaporation.
   IMPORTED WATER. Water transported into a watershed from a different
watershed. Native water is water naturally within a watershed that is available
to recharge the groundwater basin absent man-made improvements and projects.
   INJECT. To place, put, force, or introduce into the underground by means of
a well.
   LEGAL LOT. Any legal lot recognized under the Subdivision Map Act as a valid
parcel.
   MINING. Extracting groundwater by any means, including pumping and the use
of artesian wells, from any aquifer within the County of San Benito which, in
contemplation of existing extractions of groundwater used beneficially upon
lands overlying the aquifer within the county exceeds the reasonably
foreseeable replenishment potential of the watershed’s native water.
   OVERDRAFT. The condition of a groundwater basin where the amount of water
withdrawn exceeds the amount of water replenishing the basin over a period of
years that encompasses both dry and wet years. OVERDRAFT occurs at the point at
which extractions from the basin exceed its safe yield plus any temporary
surplus.
   PERCOLATION. The movement of water through the soil to the groundwater
table.
   PERMEABILITY. The capability of soil or other geologic formation to transmit
water.
   PERSON. Any entity whether the entity is a natural person, a partnership of
any form, a corporation, an unincorporated association or a governmental
agency.
   PIEZOMETRIC SURFACE. The surface to which the water in a confined aquifer
will rise under atmospheric pressure.
   POROSITY. The voids or open spaces in alluvium, other soils and rocks that
can be filled with water.
   POTABLE WATER. Water which meets the minimum drinking water standards,
primary and secondary, as specified in Cal. Code of Regulations Title 22,
Division 4, Chapter 15.
   PUBLIC WATER SYSTEM. A water system operated to serve more than five
domestic connections, including water systems operated by public agencies,
including, without limitation, public utilities, county service areas,
community services districts, municipalities and water districts.
   RADIUS OF INFLUENCE. The radial distance from the center of a well bore to
the point where there is no lowering of the water table or potentiometric
surface (the edge of the well’s cone of depression).
   RECHARGE. The flow to groundwater storage from precipitation, infiltration
from streams, irrigation, spreading basins, and other sources of water.
   SAFE YIELD. The maximum quantity of water which can be withdrawn annually
from a groundwater supply under a given set of conditions without causing an
undesirable result. The phrase “undesirable result” is intended to include
water quality degradation, land subsidence and/or gradual lowering of the
groundwater levels resulting in, or tending to result in, the eventual
depletion of or the substantial diminution of the supply of available
groundwater or its quality.
   SALT WATER INTRUSION. The movement of salt water into fresh water aquifers.
   SPECIFIC CAPACITY. The volume of water that can be pumped from a well in
gallons per minute per foot of drawdown.
   SPREADING WATER. The discharge of water to a permeable area for the purpose
of allowing it to percolate to the zone of saturation. Spreading, artificial
recharge and replenishment all refer to operations use to place water in a
groundwater basin.
   TRANSMISSIVITY. The rate of flow of water through an aquifer.
   USEABLE STORAGE. The quantity of groundwater of acceptable quality that can
be economically withdrawn from storage.
   VALID TENTATIVE MAP. Any parcel or tentative map which has not expired,
which has been processed in accordance with the California Environmental
Quality Act and the Subdivision Map Act and which has been approved by the
appropriate decision-making body of the County of San Benito.
   VALID USE PERMIT. Any discretionary land use permit which has not expired,
which has been processed in accordance with the California Environmental
Quality Act and which has been reviewed and approved by the appropriate
decision- making body of the County of San Benito.
   WATER TABLE. The surface where groundwater is encountered in a well in an
unconfined aquifer.
   ZONE OF SATURATION. The area below the water table in which the soil is
completely saturated with groundwater.
(1966 Code, § 7C-1.10) (Ord. 664, § 1(part); Ord. 778, § 1(part))
§ 15.05.003 MINING OF GROUNDWATER PROHIBITED.
   It is unlawful to conduct any mining for water within this county, or for
the owner of real property to allow groundwater of any nature, or connate
water, to be mined from a well on the landowner’s property, where the water
extracted is transported, by any means, from the County of San Benito.
(1966 Code, § 7C-1.20) (Ord. 664, § 1(part); Ord. 778, § 1(part))
§ 15.05.004 PERMIT REQUIRED FOR EXTRACTION OF GROUNDWATER FOR USE OFF-PARCEL.
   (A)   In the unincorporated areas of the county, it is unlawful to extract
groundwater of any nature or description, or for a property owner to allow the
extraction on his or her land, for the purpose of using the water or selling
the water for any use on other than a parcel of land within the sub-basin as
described in the SBCWD Annual Groundwater Report upon which the extraction
occurs, provided such use does not exceed the safe yield of the sub-basin,
without first obtaining a permit as provided in this subchapter.
   (B)   The supply and use of water in and for valid tentative maps and valid
use permits which projects were required by condition to be served by such a
public water system prior to the effective date of the ordinance codified in
this article are conclusively presumed to be available, to have no adverse
effect on the water supply and the wells of San Benito County, and to not
exceed the safe yield of the water resources of San Benito County.
(1966 Code, § 7C-1.30) (Ord. 664, § 1(part); Ord. 778, § 1(part); Ord. 921, §
2, 2013)
§ 15.05.005 PERMIT REQUIRED FOR INJECTION OF IMPORTED WATER INTO GROUNDWATER
BASINS OR AQUIFERS.
   (A)   It is unlawful to inject native surface water or imported water of any
nature or description or for a property owner to allow the injection, into a
groundwater aquifer without first obtaining a permit as provided in this
article.
   (B)   This provision does not apply to:
      (1)   The injection of potable water by a public agency operating a
public water system where the quality of the water to be injected meets or
exceeds the quality of the groundwater present within the storage medium as
determined by the Administrator; or
      (2)   The historical groundwater percolation programs conducted by the
San Benito County Water District or the Pacheco Pass Water District.
(1966 Code, § 7C-1.40) (Ord. 664, § 1(part); Ord. 778, § 1(part))
§ 15.05.006 RESERVED.
§ 15.05.007 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   (A)   An application for any permit required in this article shall be filed
with the Administrator on forms provided by the Administrator and shall contain
all information required by the Administrator. The application for permit and
request for environmental review shall be accompanied by a fee established
therefor by the enforcing agency and by written agreement to pay all costs of
preparation of any required environmental review document. Upon receipt of the
permit application, the Administrator shall provide public notice of the
application and review the application with affected county departments
including, but not limited to, the Agricultural Commissioner’s office and the
Environmental Health Division of the Health and Human Services Agency and with
any affected or appropriate county’s Water District. The Administrator shall
hold a public hearing for the consideration of the application. The public
hearing shall be noticed pursuant to Cal. Gov’t Code § 6061. The public hearing
shall not be held within 15 days after the date that the Administrator mails a
draft environmental review document to the applicant and posts notice of the
availability of the document on the enforcing agency’s website.
   (B)   After holding the public hearing, reviewing the application, and
certifying the adequacy of the environmental review documents thereof in
accordance with the procedures required under the California Water Quality Act,
the Administrator shall render a decision whether to issue the permit, and any
conditions of such a permit. The Administrator shall prepare a written report
specifying the basis of the decision. The Administrator shall mail a copy of
the decision to the applicant and each person who has, in writing, requested a
copy, and shall post a copy of the decision on the enforcing agency’s website.
(1966 Code, § 7C-1.60) (Ord. 778, § 1(part))
§ 15.05.008 PUBLIC HEARING ON ISSUANCE OF PERMIT.
   At the public hearing, the applicant shall be entitled to present any
relevant evidence to the application. The Administrator may request any
additional geologic studies he or she deems necessary to obtain information
required for a decision on the application. The cost of the studies shall be
borne by the applicant. The Administrator shall also hear relevant evidence
presented by the public and county staff. The Administrator shall consider all
effects the proposed permit would have on the affected groundwater, and the
affected aquifer or aquifers.
(1966 Code, § 7C-1.70) (Ord. 664, § 1(part); Ord. 778, § 1(part))
§ 15.05.009 GRANTING OF PERMIT.
   (A)   A permit mandated by this article to extract groundwater or to inject
water into the groundwater shall be granted only when the Administrator, after
considering all relevant evidence finds and determines that the activities
sought to be permitted will not substantially impair the quality or quantity of
the groundwater in San Benito County and that the activities are consistent
with the San Benito County general plan.
   (B)   The Administrator shall impose such conditions upon the permit as may
be necessary to mitigate or eliminate any impact on the quality or quantity of
the groundwater, or the aquifers in San Benito County, or so as to protect the
health, safety or welfare of the people of San Benito County. Notwithstanding
the foregoing, the Administrator may issue a permit upon a finding either that
the applicant has provided, or will provide, for mitigation which will
substantially offset any adverse effect that is determined to exist, or that
the well is to be used exclusively for agricultural purposes and the applicant
has provided or will provide for mitigation which will offset any adverse
effect that is determined to exist to the degree practicable given the totality
of circumstances, provided that the agricultural well is the only feasible
water source for applicant’s agricultural uses.
(1966 Code, § 7C-1.80) (Ord. 664, § 1(part); Ord. 778, § 1(part))
§ 15.05.010 APPEAL.
   (A)   Appellant; appeals body. Any interested party, including the applicant
may appeal any decision of the Administrator to the Board of the enforcing
agency.
   (B)   Time for appeal; application; fee; grounds. Any appeal shall be filed
with the Clerk of the Board of the enforcing agency not later than 15 days
after the challenged decision. The appeal shall be made on an application form
approved by the enforcing agency and accompanied by the required fee. The
specific grounds for the appeal shall be stated. Omitted grounds shall not be
considered and the appellant’s failure to state a ground shall constitute a
waiver of the right to subsequently raise the omitted ground.
   (C)   Hearing; evidence. The appeal shall be a public hearing. The hearing
shall commence at the next available meeting date of the Board of the enforcing
agency after filing the appeal. In no event shall the hearing commence later
than 60 days after the filing of the appeal. The hearing may be continued from
time to time at the discretion of the Board, but in no event shall the hearing
be continued for more than 60 days, unless consented to by the permittee and
the appellant, if other than the permittee. The enforcing agency’s Board may
act to reverse or modify the decision of the Administrator if it finds that the
decision is not supported by substantial evidence in the record.
   (D)   Basis of decision. The Board of the enforcing agency shall state the
basis for its decision. If the Board acts to reverse or modify the
Administrator’s decision, it shall state the nature of the error requiring the
reversal or modification.
   (E)   Notice of appeal. The notice of appeal also shall be given to
permittee owner if the permittee is not the appellant. In all cases, a notice
of appeal shall be published in a newspaper of general circulation at least ten
days in advance of the commencement of the hearing.
(1966 Code, § 7C-1.90) (Ord. 664, § 1(part); Ord. 778, § 1(part))
§ 15.05.011 FINALITY OF DECISION.
   Any initial decision made by the Administrator under this article is not
final until the later date of either:
   (A)   The expiration of the time for filing of an appeal, if no appeal is
filed; or
   (B)   The date a final decision is made by the agency’s board upon appeal,
if an appeal is filed.
(1966 Code, § 7C-2.00) (Ord. 664, § 1(part); Ord. 778, § 1(part))
§ 15.05.012 ANNUAL REVIEW OF PERMIT.
   The permit granted pursuant to this article shall be subject to an annual
review. In the event the Administrator determines that there is a substantially
likelihood that the permittee has failed to comply with the terms, conditions
or scope of the permit or that there is compelling public necessity for
modification or revocation of the permit, the Administrator shall schedule and
hold a public hearing to consider the modification or revocation of the permit.
A compelling public necessity exists when the activities pursuant to the permit
constitute a public nuisance or when continued operation under the permit poses
a threat to groundwater quality, land subsidence or interference with
groundwater availability to overlying landowners. The procedures for the public
hearing for the consideration of an application for a permit, such as
publication of reports and the like, shall apply to any public hearing for
revocation or modification.
(1966 Code, § 7C-2.10) (Ord. 664, § 1(part); Ord. 778, § 1(part))
§ 15.05.013 INSPECTION.
   Representatives of the enforcement agency shall have the right to enter upon
any premises at all reasonable times to make inspections and tests for the
purpose of enforcement and administration of this article. If any such premises
are occupied, the representative shall first present proper credentials and
demand entry. If the same is unoccupied, he or she shall first make a
reasonable effort to locate the owner or other person having charge or control
of same and demand entry. If the entry is refused, he or she shall have
recourse to the remedies as are provided by law to secure entry.
(1966 Code, § 7C-2.20) (Ord. 664, § 1(part); Ord. 778, § 1(part))
§ 15.05.014 EMERGENCY.
   Notwithstanding the provisions of §
15.05.013 of this article, in the event of an emergency situation requiring
immediate action with respect to a well, the enforcing agency shall have the
authority to enter upon the premises on which a well is located and to take
such action as is reasonably necessary to safeguard the health of the community
and the quality of water in the groundwater basin.
(1966 Code, § 7C-2.30) (Ord. 664, § 1(part); Ord. 778, § 1(part))
§ 15.05.015 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Violation of article; public nuisance. The violation of any provision
of this article or of any provision of any franchise agreement authorized under
this article is unlawful and is a public nuisance. The violation shall be
abated, eliminated and enjoined as provided in
Chapter 1.03 of this code.
   (B)   Administrator’s duties. It is the duty of the Administrator and his or
her authorized representatives to enforce the provisions of this article;
provided however, that its cost of enforcement against violators or abatement
of nuisance under this article shall be reimbursed by the county upon the
presentation of adequate documentation.
   (C)   Abatement of nuisance. In the event of violation of the provisions of
this article exists, the Administrator may abate any condition resulting
therefrom as a public nuisance.
   (D)   Violation of article; criminal. Any person, firm or corporation,
whether by action of its principal agent, employee or otherwise, violating any
provisions of this article is guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction
thereof, shall be punished as provided in
Chapter 1.03 of this code.
   (E)   Remedies cumulative. Except as otherwise provided by law, the remedies
provided in this article are cumulative and not exclusive. Nothing in this
article is intended, or shall be deemed or construed, to limit or impair the
ability of the Administrator, the enforcing agency or any of its officers,
agents or employees, or the county, or any of its officers, agents, or
employees to take an administrative or judicial action, otherwise authorized by
law, to abate any public nuisance.
Chapter 1.03 of this code is hereby incorporated by reference as though its
provisions were fully set forth herein.
(1966 Code, § 7C-2.40) (Ord. 664, § 1(part); Ord. 778, § 1(part))
§ 15.05.016 APPLICABILITY.
   This article shall apply to all surface water that is injected into the
groundwater and to all groundwater in the County of San Benito, State of
California.
(1966 Code, § 7C-2.50) (Ord. 664, § 1(part); Ord. 778, § 1(part))
§ 15.05.017 ENFORCEMENT; EXEMPTIONS.
   Except as provided for herein, this article shall not be applicable to:
   (A)   Any well or the use of any well in operation before the effective date
of the ordinance codified in this article;
   (B)   Any water supply source providing domestic water service to the first
single-family residence on a legal lot of record; and
   (C)   The water supply for any development project for which a valid
tentative map or a valid use permit exists on the effective date of the
ordinance.
(1966 Code, § 7C-2.60) (Ord. 664, § 1(part); Ord. 778, § 1(part))
ARTICLE II. LOCAL SMALL WATER SYSTEMS
§ 15.05.030 DECLARATION OF PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this article is to establish standards and regulations for
local small water systems. The county does not presently have standards for the
regulation and establishment of water systems having two to four service
connections. There is a need to establish such standards to ensure safe water
supplies for individual water systems and to ensure that such systems do not
induce contamination of aquifers and thereby jeopardize the health, safety and
welfare of the people of this county.
(1966 Code, § 8.1-2) (Ord. 564, § 1.1)
§ 15.05.031 DEFINITIONS.
   As used in this article:
   DESTROY. The complete filling of the well with impervious sealing materials
to an appropriate level in accordance with procedures established by Department
of Water Resources Bulletin 74-81, in order to restore as nearly as possible
those subsurface conditions which existed before the well was constructed.
   DWELLING UNIT. One or more habitable rooms which are occupied or which are
intended to be or designed to be occupied by one family with facilities for
living, sleeping, cooking and eating.
   HEALTH OFFICER. The Health Officer of the County of San Benito.
   HORIZONTAL WELL. A well drilled approximately horizontally into a water-
bearing stratum as contrasted with a common vertical well, and from which water
issues without the aid of a pump.
   LOCAL SMALL WATER SYSTEM. A system, regardless of type of ownership, for the
provision of potable water to two to four dwelling units. It includes any
collection, treatment, storage or distribution facilities under control of the
owner(s) of such a system used primarily in connection with the system.
   PERMIT. The written permission of the Health Officer or his or her
authorized representative to utilize water from or otherwise participate in a
local small water system.
   PERSON. An individual, firm, association, partnership and/or corporation
and/or public entity.
   QUALIFIED REGISTERED PROFESSIONAL. An individual who is registered as a
professional competent in the field of domestic drinking water supplies.
   SERVICE CONNECTION. A connection between a water main and a dwelling unit.
   SOURCE. A well, spring or horizontal well. It excludes water from a water
storage facility.
   WATER MAIN. Any pipe or conduit that is part of a distribution system with
the capacity to supply water to more than one service connection.
   WELL. An artificial excavation constructed in accordance with procedures
established by Department of Water Resources Bulletin 74-81.
(1966 Code, § 8.1-2) (Ord. 564, § 1.2)
§ 15.05.032 PERMITS.
   No person shall construct a local small water system without first obtaining
a permit from the Health Officer. The public health permit shall be in addition
to any other license or permit required by this county or by any other public
agency. The permit is nontransferable and it expires one year after the date of
issuance, except that the Health Officer, upon a showing of good cause, may
extend the permit for up to one additional year. Any person who holds a valid
approval for a subdivision of less than five parcels and verification by the
county’s Health Department that a local small water system has sufficient water
quantity and quality, prior to the adoption of this article, shall be deemed to
be permitted to construct and operate a local small water system.
(1966 Code, § 8.1-3) (Ord. 564, § 1.3)
§ 15.05.033 EXEMPTION REQUIREMENT OF PERMIT.
   Any temporary connection to an existing source of domestic water shall not
require a permit, provided that the person seeking to temporarily connect to an
existing source shall first apply to the health department for the exemption. A
temporary connection, for purposes of this section means a connection to a
temporary use as such is defined in the county’s zoning ordinance, Ord. 479.
(1966 Code, § 8.1-3.1) (Ord. 592, § 1)
§ 15.05.034 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   (A)   Application for a permit shall be made on forms provided by the
county’s Health Department. Each such application shall be accompanied by a
filing fee set by ordinance of the Board of Supervisors. No part of the fee
shall be refundable. This application must provide such information as the
Health Officer may reasonably require and must be signed by the owner(s) of the
property.
   (B)   Whenever an applicant seeks a permit for a local small water system
which is to supply water to other properties in addition to the applicant’s,
the applicant must submit a copy of a recorded deed showing appropriate
individual interest in the water source storage and transmission facilities and
the land upon which the system is situated. The applicant must also identify
the holders of the remaining interests in the water system, and comply with the
requirements of §§
15.05.035,
15.05.036 and
15.05.037.
(1966 Code, § 8.1-4) (Ord. 564, § 1.4)
§ 15.05.035 ISSUANCE OF PERMIT.
   (A)   The Health Officer or his or her designee, upon a receipt of a
complete permit application, shall conduct an investigation to determine if the
plans as submitted with the application required by §
15.05.034, comply with the provisions of this article.
   (B)   If, upon completion of the investigation, the Health Officer
determines that any of the following conditions exist, the Health Officer shall
not approve the permit application until the applicant makes such changes in
the proposed system as the Health Officer deems necessary.
      (1)   The system as proposed will produce water which will not comply
with the minimum quality standards as set forth by §
15.05.036 below;
      (2)   The quantity of water available from the proposed source is less
than the minimum amount required by §
15.05.037 as set forth below; and
      (3)   The proposed system is not suited to the production and delivery of
potable water.
(1966 Code, § 8.1-5) (Ord. 564, § 1.5)
§ 15.05.036 QUALITY STANDARDS.
   (A)   In order to determine that the quality of the water to be supplied
will comply with the requirements of this article, the Health Officer shall
require that water quality analyses be carried out. These analyses must be
carried out within one year of the application date by a laboratory which is
certified by the state’s Department of Health Services. Water samples to be
tested must be collected from the water source by qualified staff from the
certified laboratory in which the analyses are to be completed. The testing
will be carried out at the expense of the applicant and reports of the tests
must be submitted to the Health Department.
   (B)   The report shall include a bacteriological analysis and required
chemical analysis as specified below. The report shall be submitted to the
Health Officer who must determine that water produced by the system is fit for
human consumption according to standards established by the Domestic Water
Quality and Monitoring Regulations, Cal. Code of Regulations Title 22, Division
4, Chapter 15.
      (1)   Bacteriological analysis. Bacteriological analysis shall be
performed by a laboratory certified by the California Department of Health
Services. The testing method shall be in conformance with Cal. Code of
Regulations Chapter 15, Division 4, Title 22.
      (2)   Chemical analysis. Chapter 15,Division 4, Title 22 of the
California Primary Standards Inorganic Chemicals (Table 2); Secondary
Standards, General Physical and General Mineral (Tables 6 and 7). These tables
are added as “Exhibit A”.
      (3)   Exceedance of specific levels. The Maximum Contaminant Levels of
Inorganic Chemicals (Table 2, Exhibit A) shall not be exceeded. If the Consumer
Acceptance Limits--Secondary Drinking Water Standards (Table 6, Exhibit A) or
the Maximum Contaminant Levels for Mineralization--Secondary Drinking Water
Standards (Table 7, Exhibit A) are exceeded a statement of this fact that
“attaches and runs with the deed” shall be required.
      (4)   Additional tests. The Health Officer may require additional water
quality tests where deemed necessary.
   (C)   If a person seeks to make a service connection to an existing well,
which well may not meet the standards established in the Department of Water
Resources Bulletin 74-81, and such connection will create two to four service
connections, the applicant shall meet all quality standards specified herein.
Additionally, in such case, the applicant shall annually test the quality of
the water and report the results of the tests to the Health Officer, in order
to insure compliance with the water quality standards. The applicant need not
prove the existing well complies with the procedures established in Department
of Water Resources Bulletin 74-81. However, in the case of any service
connection to a new well, the new well shall meet all such procedures as
established in the Department of Water Resources Bulletin 74-81 and in the
county well standards ordinance.
(1966 Code, § 8.1-6) (Ord. 564, § 1.6; Ord. 592 § 2)
§ 15.05.037 QUANTITY STANDARDS.
   No permit shall be issued for the construction of a local small water system
unless and until compliance with the following water source requirements is
established:
   (A)   For each connection to a local small water system where the proposed
source of water is a well, a source capacity of three gallons per minute must
be sustained during a 24-hour period of continuous pumping. This quantity test
shall include the rate of water discharged, static water level, drawdown,
sustained pumping level and recovery rate.
   (B)   Tests carried out to determine source capacity must be performed by
either a person holding a C-57 or C-61 state contractors license or a person
who is registered by the State of California as an engineer, an environmental
health specialist or an engineering geologist and who is deemed qualified by
experience by the Health Officer to perform the tests.
   (C)   For a spring or horizontal well:
      (1)   For each connection to a spring or horizontal well, a continuous
yield of at least one gallon per minute during the months of August through
October. The yield requirements of this division may not be satisfied by tests
conducted during the months of November through July.
      (2)   Notwithstanding the provisions of division (A) of this section, the
Board of Supervisors may, upon finding of drought or other unusual weather
conditions of limited duration, extend or redefine by resolution the period of
time defined in division (C)(1) above for purposes of undertaking the required
testing to establish compliance with the yield requirements of this division.
Any resolution adopted pursuant to this division shall continue in effect no
longer than December 31 of the calendar year in which the resolution was first
adopted.
   (D)   The applicant must notify the Health Officer at least 24 hours before
the beginning of any pump test which is intended to establish source capacity.
(1966 Code, § 8.1-7) (Ord. 564, § 1.7)
§ 15.05.038 STORAGE REQUIREMENTS.
   No permit shall be issued for the construction of a small private water
system unless the system design includes storage facilities for domestic water
of at least 2,000 gallons per proposed service connection. This storage
requirement does not and is not intended to satisfy the California Department
of Forestry and Aromas Tri County Fire District’s storage requirements for fire
protection.
(1966 Code, § 8.1-8) (Ord. 564, § 1.8)
§ 15.05.039 SEALING OR DESTRUCTION OF SUBSTANDARD WELLS.
   All new wells found to be of unsuitable quality according to standards
established by the California Department of Health Services shall be sealed or
destroyed as prescribed in the Department of Water Resources Bulletin No. 74-81
(1981) unless mitigating measures can be found to make the water potable and to
assure that the groundwater supply is protected, as determined by the Health
Officer.
(1966 Code, § 8.1-9) (Ord. 564, § 1.9)
§ 15.05.040 NATURAL OR UNINTENTIONAL DESTRUCTION OF WELLS.
   In case of natural or unintentional destruction of a well existing before
the effective date of the ordinance codified in this article, the well owner
must apply to construct a replacement well or repair the damaged well. The
permit shall not be issued unless the replaced or repaired well complies with
the provisions of this article. However, if quantity requirements were not met
prior to destruction of the well and cannot be practicably met, the Health
Officer shall permit a system which does not meet the requirements set forth in
§
15.05.038, provided water storage facilities are added to ensure adequate
supply for domestic purposes. The Health Officer may require storage capability
in excess of the requirement specified in §
15.05.038, if the Health Officer determines the excess is reasonably necessary
to ensure an adequate domestic water supply. Any permit issued under this
section shall carry a statement that the permit has been issued without quality
analyses.
(1966 Code, § 8.1-10) (Ord. 564, § 1.10)
§ 15.05.041 INSPECTION AND RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   The Health Officer or his or her designee shall enforce and administer this
article and shall have the right to enter upon any premises, at all reasonable
times, to make inspections and tests for the purpose of the enforcement and
administration.
(1966 Code, § 8.1-11) (Ord. 564, § 1.11)
§ 15.05.042 DENIAL OR REVOCATION OF PERMIT HEARING.
   (A)   The Health Officer may deny or revoke any permit issued under this
article whenever he or she determines that the permit holder fails to meet the
requirements of the permit, local ordinances or applicable state law and
regulations.
   (B)   (1)   The Health Officer shall serve notice on the applicant or permit
holder, by United States mail addressed to the address shown on the application
or permit, of his or her intention to deny or revoke the permit on the grounds
stated therein.
      (2)   The notice shall also state that the applicant or permit holder has
15 days within which to request a hearing or his or her permit shall be denied
or revoked.
   (C)   The hearing will be conducted by the Health Officer and his or her
decision will be final.
(1966 Code, § 8.1-12) (Ord. 564, § 1.12)
§ 15.05.043 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Violation of article; criminal. Any person who constructs a local
small water system without first having obtained the permit described in this
article is guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof shall be
punished as provided in
Chapter 1.03 of this code.
   (B)   Violation of article; public nuisance. Any violation of this article
is unlawful and a public nuisance, and shall be abated, eliminated and enjoined
as provided in
Chapter 1.03 of this code.
   (C)   Remedies cumulative. Except as otherwise provided by law, the remedies
provided in this article are cumulative and not exclusive. Nothing in this
article is intended, or shall be deemed or construed, to limit or impair the
ability of the county, or any of its officers, agents or employees, to take any
administrative or judicial action, otherwise authorized by law, to abate any
public nuisance.
Chapter 1.03 of this code is hereby incorporated by reference as though its
provisions were fully set forth herein.
(1966 Code, § 8.1-13) (Ord. 564, § 1.13; Ord. 570, § 3)
§ 15.05.044 APPEALS.
   (A)   Any person aggrieved by any decision of the Health Officer made under
the provisions of this article may, within 15 days from the date of the
decision, appeal to the Board of Supervisors by written notice of appeal filed
in duplicate with the County Clerk and shall set forth specifically wherein the
Health Officer’s decisions were in error.
   (B)   Upon hearing the appeal, the Board of Supervisors shall consider the
record and such additional evidence as may be offered and may affirm, modify or
reverse in whole or in part, the order, requirement, decision, determination,
interpretation or ruling appealed from, or make and substitute such other
additional decision or determination, as it may find warranted under the
provisions of this article. The standards herein established to govern the
discretion of the Health Officer shall apply with equal force to the actions of
the Board of Supervisors.
   (C)   The decision of the Board of Supervisors upon the appeal shall be
expressed by resolution in writing, concurred in by a majority of all the
members of the Board of Supervisors, and the supervisors shall forthwith
transmit a copy thereof to the original applicant, the appellant and the Health
Officer. This decision will be final. If the decision be adverse to that of the
Health Officer on any action concerning the administration or enforcement of
any of the provisions of this article, the resolution of the Board of
Supervisors shall specify wherein there was an error or abuse of discretion on
the part of the Health Officer.
   (D)   No determination of the Health Officer granting or denying a permit
shall be reversed or modified by the Board of Supervisors unless the Board of
Supervisors shall include in its decision a finding of fact showing wherein the
Health Officer erred in his or her decision.
   (E)   The procedure of the Board of Supervisors in effecting an amendment of
supplement to the text which has been disapproved or partially disapproved by
the Health Officer shall be the same as that outlined above in this section for
the granting of an appeal.
(1966 Code, § 8.1-14) (Ord. 564, § 1.14)
ARTICLE III. WELL STANDARDS
SUBARTICLE I. PURPOSE AND DEFINITIONS
§ 15.05.060 INTENT OF ARTICLE.
   It is the purpose of this article to protect the health and safety and
general welfare of the people of the county by ensuring that the groundwaters
of this county will not be polluted or contaminated, that undue well
interference is prevented, and that groundwater supply is maintained at
economic groundwater levels. To this end, minimum requirements are contained in
this article for construction, reconstruction, repair and destruction of water
wells, cathodic protection wells and monitoring wells.
(1966 Code, § 17C-1) (Ord. 779, § 1(part))
§ 15.05.061 DEFINITIONS AND INTERPRETATION.
   (A)   Generally. As defined in other documents, except as otherwise required
by the context of this article, the terms used in this article shall have the
same meaning as in Cal. Water Code Article 2 of Chapter 10 of Division 7 and
the Department of Water Resources Bulletin 74-81 and subsequent supplements or
revisions.
      ADMINISTRATOR. The person to whom authority and responsibility for
implementing and enforcing this article is delegated by the enforcing agency.
The Administrator shall have the power to hold hearings, certify environmental
review documents, issue, condition, revise and revoke permits and to designate
deputies to assist in carrying out these duties.
      BOARD. The Board of Supervisors of the county.
      ENFORCING AGENCY, ENFORCEMENT AGENCY and AGENCY. That agency designated
by the Board to administer and enforce this article, and shall include any
person designated by the Board of the enforcing agency to whom its authority to
administer this article is delegated by resolution; the person shall be
referred to in this article as the “Administrator”. The Administrator may
exercise, by delegation from the agency, all powers of the agency under this
article, with the exception of the hearing of appeals.
      PERSON. Any person, firm, corporation or governmental agency, to the
extent authorized by law.
      WELL or WATER WELL. The Cal. Water Code § 13710, defines well or water
well to mean “. . .any artificial excavation constructed by any method for the
purpose of extracting water from, or injecting water into, the underground.”
The Board of Supervisors does not intend that potholes, drainage trenches or
canals, waste water ponds, shallow root zone piezometers, stock ponds, springs
or similar excavations be included within the definition of wells. The
enforcement agency, in determining what constitutes “similar excavations,”
shall exclude from the definition of WELL, those excavations which by reason of
their depth, use, location, geologic setting or other reasonable hydrologic
factors do not pose a substantial risk of polluting the groundwater of the
county.
   (B)   Tense or gender. Words used in the present tense include the future as
well as the present. Words used in the masculine gender include the feminine
and neuter. The singular number includes the plural, and the plural the
singular.
   (C)   Section headings. When contained in this article, shall not govern,
limit, modify or, in any manner, affect the scope, meaning or intent of the
provisions of any section.
(1966 Code, § 17C-2) (Ord. 779, § 1(part))
SUBARTICLE II. PERMITS
§ 15.05.075 PERMITS AND APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   When required. No person shall dig, bore, drill, deepen, modify,
repair or destroy a water well, cathodic protection well, observation well,
monitoring well or any other excavation that may intersect groundwater without
first applying for and receiving a permit as provided in this article, unless
exempted by law.
   (B)   Penalty for failure to obtain permit. Any person who shall commence
any work for which a permit is required by this article without having obtained
a permit shall be required, if subsequently granted a permit for this work, to
pay double the standard permit fee.
   (C)   Emergency work. The above provisions shall not apply to emergency work
required on short notice to maintain drinking water or agricultural supply
systems. In such cases, the person responsible for the emergency work shall:
      (1)   Time limit. Apply for a permit within three working days after
commencement of emergency work;
      (2)   Urgency. Satisfy the enforcement agency that the work was urgently
necessary; and
      (3)   Conformance with standards. Demonstrate that all work performed was
in conformance with the technical standards as designed in
Subarticle III of this article.
(1966 Code, § 17C-3) (Ord. 779, § 1(part))
§ 15.05.076 APPLICATION PROCEDURE.
   Applications for permits shall be made to the enforcement agency on forms
approved by the agency and shall contain all such information the enforcement
agency requires to accomplish the purposes of this article. The application
shall be accompanied by the required filing fee. If the enforcement agency
finds the application contains all necessary information, it shall issue to the
applicant a comprehensive permit containing such conditions are necessary to
fulfill the purposes of this article.
(1966 Code, § 17C-4) (Ord. 779, § 1(part))
§ 15.05.077 FILING FEES.
   Filing fees may be set by the agency Board from time to time, as necessary
to cover the costs of administration of this article.
(1966 Code, § 17C-5) (Ord. 779, § 1(part))
§ 15.05.078 PERMIT CONDITIONS.
   (A)   Limitations. When the enforcement agency issues a permit pursuant to
this article, it may condition the permit in any manner necessary to carry out
the purposes of this article. Conditions may include, but are not limited to,
the quantity and quality testing methods as the enforcement agency finds
necessary, and a requirement for periodic confidential reporting of water
extractions.
   (B)   Performance bond. The enforcement agency may require a performance
bond as a condition to the permit.
   (C)   Persons permitted to work on wells. All construction, reconstruction,
or destruction work on wells shall be performed by a person who possesses an
action C-57 contractor’s license in accordance with the provisions of the Cal.
Business and Professions Code §§ 7000 et seq. and Cal. Water Code § 12750.5.
   (D)   Proper disposal of drilling fluids. The permit shall contain a clause
requiring the safe and appropriate handling and disposal of drilling fluids and
other drilling materials used in connection with the permitted work.
   (E)   Abandoned wells. As a condition of a construction or reconstruction
permit, any abandoned wells on the property shall be destroyed in accordance
with standards provided in this article.
   (F)   Posting of permit. It shall be the responsibility of the permittee to
maintain a copy of this permit on the drilling site during all stages of
construction or destruction.
   (G)   Filing of permit. The enforcement agency shall send a copy of each
well permit issued to the office of the County Assessor.
(1966 Code, § 17C-6) (Ord. 779, § 1(part))
§ 15.05.079 PERMIT; DENIAL.
   The enforcement agency shall deny an application for a permit if, in its
judgment, issuance of a permit is not in the public interest because it poses a
threat to groundwater quality, would create unreasonable well interference or
would unreasonably affect availability of groundwater resources.
(1966 Code, § 17C-7) (Ord. 779, § 1(part))
§ 15.05.080 PERMIT; EXPIRATION.
   The permittee shall complete the work authorized by the permit within the
time and before the date set out in the permit. If there have been exceptional
circumstances, the enforcement agency may grant the applicant an extension.
Upon the expiration of the permit, no further work shall be done unless and
until the applicant has received an extension or a new permit.
(1966 Code, § 17C-8) (Ord. 779, § 1(part))
§ 15.05.081 PERMIT; SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION.
   (A)   Circumstances for the action. The enforcement agency may suspend or
revoke any permit issued pursuant to this article, whenever it finds that the
permittee has violated any of the provisions of this article, or has
misrepresented any material fact in his or her application, or any supporting
documents, for such a permit. Prior to ordering any such suspension or
revocation, the enforcement agency shall give the permittee an opportunity for
a hearing thereon, after reasonable notice. The hearing shall be before the
enforcement agency head or his or her designated representative. An appeal may
be made as set forth below.
   (B)   Consequences. No person whose permit has been suspended or revoked
shall continue to perform the work for which the permit was granted until, in
the case of suspension, the permit has been reinstated by the enforcement
agency.
   (C)   Ordered additional work. Upon suspending or revoking any permit, the
enforcement agency may order the permittee to perform any work reasonably
necessary to protect the underground waters from pollution or contamination, if
the work already done by the permittee has left a well in such condition as to
constitute a hazard to the quality of the underground waters. No permittee or
person who has held any permit issued pursuant to this article shall fail to
comply with any such order.
(1966 Code, § 17C-9) (Ord. 779, § 1(part))
SUBARTICLE III. WELL STANDARDS
§ 15.05.095 WELL STANDARDS.
   Except as otherwise specified, the standards for the construction, repair,
reconstruction, or destruction of wells shall be as set forth in the California
Department of Water Resources Bulletin 74-81 “Water Well Standards, State of
California” except as validly modified by subsequent revisions and/or
supplements.
(1966 Code, § 17C-10) (Ord. 779, § 1(part))
SUBARTICLE IV. VARIANCES
§ 15.05.110 VARIANCES.
   The enforcement agency shall have the power under the following specified
conditions to grant a variance from any provision of the standards referenced
above and to prescribe alternative requirements in their place:
   (A)   Special circumstances. There must be a specific case, a special
circumstance where practical difficulties or unnecessary hardship would result
from the strict interpretation and enforcement of any standard; and
   (B)   Intent of ordinance not compromised. The granting of such a variance
is consistent with the purpose of this article.
(1966 Code, § 17C-11) (Ord. 779, § 1(part))
SUBARTICLE V. GROUNDWATER PROTECTION
§ 15.05.125 SPECIAL GROUNDWATER PROTECTION.
   The enforcement agency may designate areas where groundwater quality
problems are known to exist and where a well will penetrate more than one
aquifer. The enforcement agency may require in these designated areas special
well seal(s) to prevent mixing of water from several aquifers. Where an
applicant proposes well construction, reconstruction or destruction work in
such an area, the enforcement agency may require the applicant to provide a
report prepared by a registered geologist or registered civil engineer (Cal.
Business and Professions Code §§ 7850 and 6762 respectively) that identifies
all strata containing poor quality water and recommends the location and
specifications of the seal or seals needed to prevent the entrance of poor-
quality water or its migration into other aquifers.
(1966 Code, § 17C-12) (Ord. 779, § 1(part))
SUBARTICLE VI. INSPECTIONS
§ 15.05.140 INSPECTIONS GENERALLY.
   The enforcement agency shall make an inspection of the annular seal
construction work. It may make an initial inspection of each proposed drilling
site, an inspection at the completion of the work and inspections at such other
times as it deems appropriate.
(1966 Code, § 17C-13) (Ord. 779, § 1(part))
§ 15.05.141 INITIAL INSPECTION.
   (A)   Upon receipt of an application, the enforcement agency may make an
inspection of the drilling site prior to the issuance of a well permit. The
purpose of this inspection is to determine whether there are any site
conditions requiring modification of the application or imposition of special
conditions.
   (B)   If justified by site conditions, the enforcement agency may do any of
the following:
      (1)   Relocation of drilling site. Require relocation of the drilling
site should the location shown on the permit application be too close to
potential sources of pollution, or threaten unreasonable interference with the
operation of nearby wells; and
      (2)   Additional conditions. Set additional conditions if needed to
remediate any previously unknown groundwater quality protection problems.
(1966 Code, § 17C-14) (Ord. 779, § 1(part))
§ 15.05.142 INSPECTION OF WELL SEAL.
   The enforcement agency shall inspect the annular space grout depth prior to
the sealing.
   (A)   Required notice. The enforcement agency shall be notified by the well
driller a minimum of one full working day (not including weekends or state
holidays) prior to sealing the annular space. Drillers who anticipate
completing a well in less than one day shall notify the enforcement agency one
full working day prior to commencement of drilling and provide the anticipated
time to commence the sealing of the annular space.
   (B)   Should enforcement agency fail to be present. If the enforcement
agency fails to appear when the seal is to be tremied or placed and proper
notice under division (A) of this section is given, the driller shall seal the
well in accordance with the standards of this article and any permit
conditions. No seal shall be tremied or placed until permission to proceed is
given by the enforcement agency, absent prior notice to the enforcement agency
by the well owner or representative pursuant to division (A) of this section.
(1966 Code, § 17C-15) (Ord. 779, § 1(part))
§ 15.05.143 FINAL INSPECTION.
   The driller shall notify the enforcement agency within seven days of the
completion of its work at each drilling site. The enforcement agency may make a
final inspection after completion of the work to determine whether the well was
completed in accordance with this article.
(1966 Code, § 17C-16) (Ord. 779, § 1(part))
§ 15.05.144 WAIVER OF INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   The enforcement agency may waive inspections should any of the
following conditions exist:
      (1)   Well inspected by other agencies. Inspections may be waived where
the work will be inspected by the staff of the California Regional Water
Quality Control Board or the California Department of Health Services if these
designated agencies will inspect and report to the enforcement agency on all
drilling features required by the standards.
      (2)   Monitoring wells under specified conditions. Inspections may be
waived for monitoring wells that will penetrate only aquifers containing
degraded waters or will penetrate only formations that normally contain no
water.
      (3)   Drilling sites known to have no threats to groundwater quality.
Initial inspections may be waived when the drilling site is well known to the
enforcement agency staff and it is known that no significant threats to
groundwater quality exist in the area.
   (B)   Waiver of inspection shall be indicated by the agency’s written
endorsement on the applicant’s permit.
(1966 Code, § 17C-17) (Ord. 779, § 1(part))
SUBARTICLE VII. COMPLETION REPORTS
§ 15.05.160 COMPLETION REPORTS GENERALLY.
   The driller shall provide the enforcement agency a completion report within
30 days of the completion of any well construction, reconstruction or
destruction job.
(1966 Code, § 17C-18) (Ord. 779, § 1(part))
§ 15.05.161 SUBMITTAL OF STATE “REPORT OF COMPLETION”.
   (A)   A copy of the “Report of Completion” (Water Well Driller’s Report,
Department of Water Resources Form 188) required by Cal. Water Code § 13751
shall be submitted by the permittee to the enforcement agency within 30 days of
construction, alternation or destruction of any well. This report shall
document that the work was completed in accordance with the standards and all
additional permit conditions.
   (B)   This section shall not release any person from the requirement to file
the report with the state’s Department of Water Resources.
(1966 Code, § 17C-19) (Ord. 779, § 1(part))
§ 15.05.162 CONFIDENTIALITY OF REPORT.
   In accordance with Cal. Water Code § 12752, reports shall not be made
available for inspection by the public but shall be made available for
inspection by governmental agencies for use in making studies. Reports shall be
made available to any person who obtains written authorization from the owner
of the well.
(1966 Code, § 17C-20) (Ord. 779, § 1(part))
§ 15.05.163 OTHER AGENCY’S REQUIREMENTS.
   Nothing in this article shall excuse any person from compliance with the
provisions of Cal. Water Code §§ 13750 through 13755 relating to notices and
reports of completion or any other federal, state or local reporting
regulations or other regulations.
(1966 Code, § 17C-21) (Ord. 779, § 1(part))
SUBARTICLE VIII. APPEALS
§ 15.05.175 RIGHT OF HEARING.
   Any person whose application for a permit has been denied, or granted
conditionally, or whose permit has been suspended or revoked, or whose variance
request has been denied by the Administrator, may appeal to the enforcing
agency’s board, in writing, within ten days after any such denial, conditional
granting, suspension or revocation. The appeal shall specify the grounds upon
which it is taken, and shall be accompanied by any required filing fee. The
clerk of the enforcement agency’s board shall set the appeal for hearing at the
earliest practicable time, and shall notify the appellant and the enforcement
agency board, in writing, of the time set at least five days prior to the
hearing.
(1966 Code, § 17C-22) (Ord. 779, § 1(part))
§ 15.05.176 ACTION BY THE BOARD.
   After the hearing, the appellate board may affirm, may reverse wholly or
partly, or may modify the order or determination appealed from.
(1966 Code, § 17C-23) (Ord. 779, § 1(part))
SUBARTICLE IX. ABATEMENT
§ 15.05.190 ABATEMENT OF ABANDONED WELLS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person owning land in fee simple or in
possession thereof under lease or contract of sale to knowingly permit the
existence on the premises any permanently inactive well, cathodic protection
well, or monitoring well, as defined in Ca1. Water Code §§ 13710, 13711 and
13712, respectively, that constitutes a known or probable preferential pathway
for the movement of pollutants, contaminants, or poor quality water, from above
ground to below ground, or vertical movement of pollutants, contaminants, or
poor quality water below ground, and that movement poses a threat to the
quality of the waters of the state.
Statutory reference:
   Abandoned wells, see Cal. Health and Safety Code, §§ 115700 et seq.
SUBARTICLE X. VIOLATION; PENALTY; ENFORCEMENT
§ 15.05.205 VIOLATION OF ARTICLE; CRIMINAL.
   Any person who violates any of the provisions of this article is guilty of a
misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished as provided in
Chapter 1.03 of this code.
(1966 Code, § 17C-25) (Ord. 779, § 1(part))
§ 15.05.206 VIOLATION OF ARTICLE; PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   Any violation of this article is unlawful and a public nuisance and shall be
abated, eliminated and enjoined as provided in
Chapter 1.03 of this code.
(1966 Code, § 17C-26) (Ord. 779, § 1(part))
§ 15.05.207 REMEDIES CUMULATIVE.
   Except as otherwise provided by law, the remedies provided in this article
are cumulative and not exclusive. Nothing in this article is intended, or shall
be deemed or construed to limit or impair the ability of the Administrator, the
enforcing agency or the county or any of the county’s officers, agents or
employees, to take any administrative or judicial action, otherwise authorized
by law, to abate any public nuisance.
Chapter 1.03 of this code is incorporated by reference as though its provisions
were fully set forth herein.
(1966 Code, § 17C-27) (Ord. 779, § 1(part))
§ 15.05.208 RIGHT OF ENTRY, INSPECTION AND REPORTING.
   (A)   Representatives of the enforcement agency shall have the right to
enter upon any premises at all reasonable times to make inspections and tests
for the purpose of the enforcement and administration. If any such premises are
occupied, he or she shall first present proper credentials and demand entry. If
the same is unoccupied, he or she shall first make a reasonable effort to
locate the owner or other person having charge or control of same and demand
entry. If the entry is refused, he or she shall have recourse to the remedies
as are provided by law to secure entry.
   (B)   If required by the agency, the permittee shall file semi-annually,
reports of the amount of water pumped during the preceding six-month period.
The reports shall be deemed trade secrets and shall he maintained in strict
confidence by the agency, and shall not be released to any third party except
as may be required by a court of competent jurisdiction.
(1966 Code, § 17C-28) (Ord. 779, § 1(part))
§ 15.05.209 ENFORCING AGENCY.
   The San Benito County Water District shall be the enforcing agency and is
delegated the full authority of the county in administering this article.
(1966 Code, § 17C-29) (Ord. 779, § 1(part))
ARTICLE IV. WATER CONSERVATION
§ 15.05.225 FINDINGS.
   (A)   The county faces and has faced in recent years the tremendous pressure
of residential growth.
   (B)   Residential growth creates an increased demand for water supplies to
service the residents a demand which is not temporary.
   (C)   The county relies extensively on ground water for its water supply for
all uses. Also, the county receives water from the federal water project known
as the San Felipe project. The San Felipe project primarily supplies
agriculture at the present time.
   (D)   The supply of water in California, particularly in the county, is in
jeopardy due to the present drought. The drought has not only affected the
replenishment of the ground water but affects the supplies available to the San
Felipe project as evidenced by recent cutbacks in the proposed supply.
   (E)   The county is geographically in an area that is historically subject
to periodic droughts of lengthy duration, five to seven years or longer. As of
the adoption date of the ordinance codified in this article, the county is in
the fifth year of a devastating drought.
   (F)   Because of the growing demand for water in the county and the
shrinking of the supply of water to meet those needs, the Board has
commissioned a hydrologic study to determine how much water is available in the
county for beneficial use without adversely affecting the quantity and quality
of the county’s water supply.
   (G)   The hydrologic study will not be completed until fall of 1991. In
light of the current water crisis, the public health, safety and welfare of
current and future residents of the county require the gathering of adequate
hydrologic information and also require interim restrictions to protect the
water supply of the county residents until sufficient information is gathered.
   (H)   Furthermore, the actions specified in this article are required in
order to mitigate or avoid potentially disastrous economic consequences which
would be caused by an inadequate water supply.
   (I)   In recent years the county has been faced with a over-abundant demand
for residential development as compared to non-residential development such as
commercial and industrial. This imbalance of development has created many
problems both environmental and economic.
   (J)   Because of the recent demand for residential structures, the current
supply of residential structures is adequate to deal with the short-term needs
of the county while the county reviews the water supply situation and develops
actions to safeguard water supplies for present and future residents.
   (K)   In light of the current reduced demand for housing in this region due
to economic circumstances and in light of the facts as determined in this
section, the restrictions in this article do not appear to significantly reduce
the housing opportunities of the region given the current and foreseeable
demand for housing. However, even if housing opportunities were temporarily
reduced, the threat of inadequate water supplies justifies the restrictions
contained in this article in order to protect the public health, safety and
welfare of county residents.
(1966 Code, § 17D-1) (Ord. 594, § 1(part))
§ 15.05.226 PURPOSE; DEVELOPMENT OF WATER CONSERVATION PRACTICES.
   (A)   Hydrologic study. The county is conducting a hydrological study of all
groundwater basins in the county. The county expects the study to be completed
in the fall of 1991.
   (B)   Final water conservation plan. Based upon the information generated by
the hydrologic study and by other sources, the Board of Supervisors of the
county shall adopt a final water conservation plan. The final water
conservation plan shall be adopted in accordance herewith. Building permits
shall be issued in conformance with the final water conservation plan.
   (C)   Interim restrictions. Before the adoption of the final water
conservation plan, the county imposes certain interim restrictions on the
issuance of building permits. These restrictions are specified herein.
   (D)   Exemptions. Building permits of the following nature are exempt from
the interim restrictions hereof:
      (1)   Non-residential structures. Non-residential structures are those
structures which are not dwelling units as such are defined in the Uniform
Building Code or the county zoning ordinance, Ord. 479. This exemption does not
apply to structures appurtenant to residential structures which result in
additional demand for water; including without limitation, swimming pools.
      (2)   Reconstruction or remodeling of existing residential
structures. RECONSTRUCTION OR REMODELING OF EXISTING RESIDENTIAL STRUCTURES
means the reconstruction of a damaged or destroyed dwelling unit, or any
construction to an existing dwelling unit; provided that in either case, the
square footage sought does not exceed the original square footage, and the
dwelling unit was capable of legal occupation prior to the need for
reconstruction or construction.
   (E)   Variance.
      (1)   Variance for applications for building permits for structures
satisfying an overriding community need.
         (a)   This variance category shall apply to applications benefitting
public health, safety or welfare which may increase consumptive demand from any
water source available in the county, but which do not propose to increase
water supplies. Each application for a building permit listed in this division
shall be reviewed by the Planning Commission.
         (b)   In its exercise of discretion on the variance application, the
Planning Commission shall weigh the benefit a project would confer upon the
public health, safety or welfare of the county against the water use burden
that the proposed structure shall place upon any water source available in the
county and shall find that the proposed application meets an overriding
community need; e.g. affordable housing. Thereafter, the Planning Commission
may choose to grant approval, deny approval or place conditions upon the
quantity or nature of water use on that site by imposing conditions on the
building permit.
         (c)   Based on the above criteria, the following permits may be issued
until a final water conservation plan is adopted only upon the grant of a
discretionary variance by the Planning Commission:
            1.   New non-governmental structures which promote public health,
safety or welfare of the county; and/or
            2.   New governmental community structures which promote the public
health, safety or welfare of the county.
      (2)   Variance for applications for building permits for structures that
intensify demand for water but which also propose to increase water supplies or
which propose to offset new demand with on-site water use savings.
         (a)   This variance category shall apply to applications which propose
to increase consumptive demand from any water source available in the county,
but which also propose a parallel increase in water supplies, or which propose
a new water use which is offset by water use savings created at that same site.
Each application listed in this paragraph shall be reviewed by the Planning
Commission.
         (b)   In its exercise of discretion on the variance application, the
Planning Commission shall weigh the general benefit a project would confer upon
the county against the water use burden that the project could place upon any
water source available in the county in the event the new water supply was not
sufficient to meet all demand caused by the new developments, or in the event
the on-site water use reduction was not permanently achieved. Applications in
this category shall only be approved if the increase in new water supply (or
reduction in past use at that site) can be caused by that applicant.
         (c)   Applications which develop new water supplies must clearly
document an augmentation of water yield. Applications based on conserved water
must clearly document that water savings are real, and permanent. Off-site
water credit transfers shall not be allowed by this exemption.
         (d)   The Planning Commission may choose to grant approval, deny
approval or approve the application with conditions upon the quantity or
nature, of water use on that site by imposing conditions on the building
permit.
         (e)   Based on the above criteria, the following building permits may
be issued until the final water conservation plan is adopted only upon the
grant of a discretionary variance by the Planning Commission:
            1.   Expansion of water distribution systems:
               a.   All applications for structures which will add new water
production facilities to an existing water distribution system.
               b.   All applications for structures to add new water
distribution facilities to distribute newly-developed water.
            2.   Development based on new water supplies; all applications for
structures that will use newly-developed water to augment other existing
supplies available in the county.
            3.   Development based on documented water conservation measures.
All applications for structures that will use conserved water which
conservation can be documented to be permanently withdrawn from use on that
same site.
(1966 Code, § 17D-2) (Ord. 594, § 1(part))
§ 15.05.227 FIRST PHASE; PLANNING COMMISSION REVIEW.
   (A)   Preliminary water conservation plan; study. The county shall cause to
be prepared a study to develop a preliminary water conservation plan which is
designed to minimize demand for water and which is designed to protect the
quality and quantity of water for beneficial use in the county. A report of the
results of the study shall be completed in not more than three months from the
operative date of the ordinance and presented to the Board.
   (B)   Preliminary water conservation plan; adoption. The Board shall
consider the study at a public hearing and shall receive evidence. Following
the hearing, the Board shall adopt by resolution a preliminary water
conservation plan.
   (C)   Preliminary water conservation plan; contents. The preliminary water
conservation plan shall specify guidelines for the issuance of building permits
and require specified reasonable water conservation measures in the design and
construction of all structures built in the county.
   (D)   Standards for issuance of building permits. Prior to the adoption of
the preliminary water conservation plan, the Building Department shall not
issue a building permit until the Planning Commission determines that ample
water of suitable quality exists to meet the water needs generated by the
structures and the use thereof. The applicant shall have the burden of proof
according to clear and convincing evidence.
   (E)   Definition of ample water of suitable quality. AMPLE WATER OF SUITABLE
QUALITY means establishing the following:
      (1)   The quantity of water to be used as a result of the use of the
proposed structure on an averaged annual basis;
      (2)   The quality of water necessitated by the use of the proposed
structure;
      (3)   A reliable source of the water to be used;
      (4)   The quantity and quality of the water source;
      (5)   The existing and potential other users of the source of water, and
an estimate of the amount of water needed by these users on an average annual
basis; and
      (6)   The insignificant impact of the proposed use on existing and
potential users of the water source. “Insignificant impact” includes a
determination that the withdrawal of water from the water source does not
exceed the replenishment of the water source, nor will the proposed withdrawal
of water reduce the quality of the water source.
   (F)   Planning Commission hearing. Not later than 60 days from the date the
Building Department determines an application to be complete, shall the
Planning Commission hold a public hearing and make a determination if an
applicant has ample water of suitable quality for the use of the proposed
structure. The failure of the Planning Commission to make a decision within the
specified time period shall be deemed, by operation of law, that the Planning
Commission determines the applicant does not have ample water of suitable
quality.
(1966 Code, § 17D-3) (Ord. 594, § 1(part))
§ 15.05.228 SECOND PHASE; PRELIMINARY WATER CONSERVATION PLAN.
   Following the development of a preliminary water conservation plan, the
Building Department shall not issue a building permit unless the applicant
demonstrates compliance with the preliminary water conservation plan. The
Building Department may condition any building permit to insure compliance with
the preliminary water conservation plan.
(1966 Code, § 17D-4) (Ord. 594, § 1(part))
§ 15.05.229 THIRD PHASE; FINAL WATER CONSERVATION PLAN.
   (A)   Final water conservation plan; adoption. Upon the completion of the
county-wide hydrological study, the Board shall hold a public hearing to
consider all relevant evidence on creating a final water conservation plan. By
resolution, the Board shall adopt a final water conservation plan.
   (B)   Final water conservation plan; contents. The final water conservation
plan shall specify guidelines for the issuance of building permits and shall
specify certain requirements to be incorporated into the design and
construction of all structures constructed in the county.
   (C)   Compliance with final water conservation plan. Following the adoption
of the final water conservation plan, the Building Department shall not issue a
building permit unless the applicant demonstrates compliance with the final
water conservation plan. The Building Official may condition any building
permit to insure compliance with the final water conservation plan.
(1966 Code, § 17D-5) (Ord. 594, § 1(part))
§ 15.05.230 PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Definitions. Unless the context requires otherwise, all terms shall be
interpreted under the Uniform Building Code, current edition.
   (B)   Fees.
      (1)   Any application for Planning Commission consideration shall be
accompanied by a fee of $150. This fee is in addition to other fees currently
imposed for the issuance of a building permit.
      (2)   Should the Building and Planning Departments require the services
of a consultant to evaluate information provided by the applicant pursuant to
this article, the applicant shall pay in advance all costs of these services
prior to services being rendered.
   (C)   Appeals. Any final decision made pursuant to this article by the
Building and Planning Department may be appealed to the Planning Commission.
Any final decision pursuant to this article by the Planning Commission may be
appealed to the Board of Supervisors. Appeals must be filed within 15 calendar
days of the final decision with the appropriate body, accompanied by a non-
refundable fee of $150, which fee equals the administrative cost of processing
the appeal. The appeal shall be heard by the appropriate body at a public
hearing conducted not later than 60 days after the date of filing the appeal.
(1966 Code, § 17D-6) (Ord. 594, § 1(part))
ARTICLE V. COUNTY SERVICE AREA NO. 31 WATER CONSERVATION ORDINANCE
§ 15.05.245 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BOARD or BOARD OF SUPERVISORS. The San Benito County Board of Supervisors.
   COUNTY. The County of San Benito.
   CSA 31.  County Service Area No. 31, a County Service Area within San Benito
County.
   CUMULATIVE MONTHLY AGRICULTURAL ALLOTMENT. The sum of the monthly
agricultural water allotments, as may be established by the County Board of
Supervisors by resolution or ordinance, for a given parcel within CSA 31 from
the beginning of the water year, to the month for which the CUMULATIVE MONTHLY
AGRICULTURAL ALLOTMENT is calculated.
   CUSTOMER. The person responsible for paying for or receiving water service
on any parcel in the area served by CSA 31.
   DIRECTOR or DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC WORKS. The Director of Public Works of the
County of San Benito, or the Director’s designee.
   MONTHLY AGRICULTURAL WATER ALLOTMENT. The amount of non-potable water
supplied by CSA 31 to a given parcel within CSA 31 for a month, as may be
established by the Board of Supervisors by resolution or ordinance.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, partnership, association, corporation,
company, organization or governmental agency.
   RESIDENT. Owners within CSA 31, or in the event that the property is
occupied by other the parcel’s owners, the adult occupants living on a parcel
who are responsible for water usage on the parcel.
   WATER. Any water that is supplied by CSA No. 31 ‘s water distribution
system.
   WATER FLOW RESTRICTOR. A device that restricts the flow of water of
approximately one gallon per minute capacity for meter services up to one and
one-half inch size and comparatively sized restrictors for larger services.
   WATER WASTE. Any use of water in violation of the water use restrictions set
forth herein.
   WILLFUL VIOLATION. Any violation of this article which is intentional,
deliberate or occurs with the responsible party’s knowledge of the violation.
It shall also include any violation which occurs after the water customer has
been informed that a water violation exists.
(Ord. 927, § 2 (part), 2014)
§ 15.05.246 APPLICATION.
   (A)   The provisions of this Article apply to any person that uses potable
or agricultural (“blue-valve”) water provided by County Service Area No. 31.
   (B)   The provisions of this article do not apply to uses of water necessary
to protect public health and safety or for essential governmental services,
such as parks, police, fire, or other similar emergency service.
   (C)   This article is intended solely to further the conservation of water.
It is not intended to implement any provision of federal, state, or local
statutes, ordinances or regulations related to protection of water quality or
control of drainage or runoff.
   (D)   The Board of Supervisors by resolution or ordinance may require or
impose additional reductions beyond those stated in this ordinance in the use
of water if such reductions are necessary in order for the county to comply
with water use restrictions imposed by federal, state, or regional water
agencies, or to respond to local water shortage conditions and emergencies.
Depending on the expected duration and severity of the shortage, these measures
may include, but are not limited to, some of or all of the actions listed in
this article or otherwise declared by the Board, which shall take effect upon
declaration by the Board of Supervisors. In an emergency, the County
Administrative Officer, or his/her designee, may make the declaration, which
will be ratified by the Board of Supervisors at a subsequent meeting.
(Ord. 927, § 2 (part), 2014)
§ 15.05.247 ADMINISTRATIVE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   All residents and homeowners within CSA 31 shall maintain on file at
the Office of Public Works, a phone number or email address at which notice can
be provided in the event of an emergency or a water condition that needs
immediate attention.
   (B)   Any official notice provided as a result of this article, except
notices of emergency nature (such as water breakage) which shall be provided as
set forth in division (A) of this section, shall be mailed to the owner of the
parcel, at the address on file with the San Benito County Treasurer-Tax
Collector.
   (C)   All residents and homeowners within CSA 31 may choose to receive
additional courtesy notice of any notice or correspondence sent by the County
related to this article, by providing in writing, an additional mailing address
or email address to the Department of Public Works.
   (D)   All residents who are not homeowners shall be required to provide, in
writing, to the Public Works department, an address to where mailed notice
shall be provided in the event of any notice or correspondence relating to this
article.
   (E)   Notices to the Public Works Director shall be made to: Director of
Public Works, San Benito County, 2301 Technology Pkwy, Hollister, CA 95023.
(Ord. 927, § 2 (part), 2014)
§ 15.05.248 PERMANENT WATER CONSERVATION REQUIREMENTS - WATER CONSERVATION
MEASURES.
   (A)   No person shall tamper with, bypass, or take any action to disable or
destroy a water meter.
   (B)   All property owners shall be responsible for ensuring that the water
meter on their property is accessibly for maintenance, repair and readings.
   (C)   In the event of a meter failure for either agricultural or domestic
water supply, a water customer’s usage will be calculated based on historical
usage for any period of time the meter is out of service. Historical usage
shall be determined based on the average usage per day for the last full month
prior to breakage, or at the option of the county, the last full month prior to
the breakage averaged with the next full month after the breakage.
   (D)   Any such costs incurred by CSA 31 or the County to repair, service,
replace or remedy any situation described in divisions (A) or (B) of this
section, shall be reimbursed by the owner to CSA 31 or to the county
respectively.
   (E)   Obligations to fix leaks, breaks or malfunctions. Excessive use, loss
or escape of water through breaks, leaks or other malfunctions in the water
user’s plumbing or distribution system for any period of time after such escape
of water should have reasonably been discovered and corrected, and in no event
more than three days after receiving notice from the county is prohibited.
(Ord. 927, § 2 (part), 2014)
§ 15.05.249 PERMANENT WATER CONSERVATION MEASURES-WATER ALLOTMENT GENERAL
PROVISIONS FOR DOMESTIC AND AGRICULTURAL WATER ALLOTMENTS.
   (A)   CSA 31 may reserve and not make an allocation of a reasonable amount,
as determined in the county’s sole discretion, of agricultural water received
from the San Benito County Water District for the purposes of fire suppression,
for an unexpected water loss, and as an emergency reserve. The remainder of the
allocation from the San Benito County Water District shall be allocated to the
various parcels within CSA 31.
   (B)   CSA 31 allocation of domestic water shall be determined in the
county’s sole discretion, based on factors such as the time of year, changes in
the local water table, estimates regarding the amount of water that the CSA 31
well can produce over a sustained period, and the domestic water needs of
residents within CSA 31. The county shall consult with the Board of Directors
of the Stonegate Homeowners Association prior to determining any allocations or
making any change in allocation.
   (C)   A month shall be defined as the first day of the calendar month to the
last day of a calendar month.
   (D)   If a water reading is taken after the last day of a calendar month,
the water usage for the month shall be determined by actual usage, divided by
the number of days since the last reading, multiplied by the number of days in
the calendar month for which the usage is being determined.
   (E)   Any owner or resident may use additional water received from other
sources, such as water that is delivered to an on-site water storage tank.
   (F)   The water allocation for July 2014 shall be prorated so that it
reflects the allocation that each parcel may use from July 8, 2014 through July
31, 2014.
   (G)   No person shall install, maintain, or allow to be installed or
maintained, any connection, pipe, or hose between the domestic and agricultural
water supply pipelines on any residential parcel within CSA 31.
   (H)   It is unlawful for any person, firm, association or corporation, to
violate, to cause, or to maintain a violation of this article.
(Ord. 927, § 2 (part), 2014)
§ 15.05.250 CONSERVATION MEASURES - AGRICULTURAL WATER SUPPLY: ALLOTMENTS.
   (A)   Annual allotment.
      (1)   The Board of Supervisors may establish, by resolution or ordinance,
in its discretion, an annual agricultural water allotment for each parcel
within CSA 31 based on the amount of water received from the San Benito County
Water District. The County shall consult with the Board of Directors of the
Stonegate Homeowners Association prior to determining any allocations or making
any change in allocation.
      (2)   A water year shall be determined to run from March 1st through
February 28th or February 29th as applicable, of the following year, unless the
Board of Supervisors shall determine, by resolution or ordinance, different
beginning and ending dates of a water year.
      (3)   An annual water allotment can be increased or decreased, upon
mailed notice to owners within CSA 31, in the reasonable discretion of the
County for reasons which may include, but are not limited to the following: if
the water allocated by San Benito County Water District is increased or
decreased during the water year through changes in allocation from the San
Benito County Water District, or in the event of an emergency, including but
not limited to a fire or line breakage which consumes a portion of the annual
agricultural water supply, or in the event that one or more CSA 31 homeowners
have used water in excess of the previous allocations, which is likely to
cause, as may be determined in the Board of Supervisors’ reasonable discretion,
CSA 31 to exceed its allotment without further reductions in allotments.
      (4)   If a yearly agricultural allotment is established by the San Benito
County Board of Supervisors, when the yearly allotment for a parcel is reached,
the agricultural water supply to the parcel will be turned off and locked until
the beginning of the next water year. In the alternative, a water restricting
device may be installed by the county.
      (5)   To the extent allowed by law, the cost of any water used beyond the
yearly allotment will be determined by using the current over limit rate set by
the San Benito County Water District, if established as part of the water fees
set for CSA 31 in the discretion of the Board of Supervisors. This cost will be
due and payable from the owner to CSA 31.
      (6)   The annual allotment shall not be a guarantee or right to any
person to use the entire annual allotment value. The annual allotment merely
establishes the maximum amount of water that a property may use before its
agricultural water supply is terminated for the remainder of the water year.
   (B)   Monthly allotments.
      (1)   The Board of Supervisors may establish, by resolution or ordinance,
in its discretion from time to time, a monthly agricultural water allotment and
a month-by-month “cumulative agricultural water allocation” for each parcel
within CSA 31. The county shall consult with the Board of Directors of the
Stonegate Homeowners Association prior to determining any allotments or making
any change in allotments.
      (2)   Each parcel owner, as on record at the Treasurer-Tax Collector’s
office, and all others who have requested notice and provided a mailing address
for notice as set forth in § 15.05.247, shall receive mailed notice of the
monthly water allotment, and the “cumulative water agricultural allotment”, and
upon each subsequent change in the allotments by the San Benito County Board of
Supervisors.
      (3)   There may be “banking” of any portion of a parcel’s monthly
allotments of agricultural water which is unused. In the case of a portion of
the monthly allotment being unused at the end of the month, the unused portion
of a monthly agricultural allotment for a parcel is then added to the next
month’s allotment, for the amount of water available for that parcel to use.
      (4)   When the monthly allotments described in this section is mandatory,
as established by resolution or ordinance of the Board of Supervisors, due to
the failure of a well, pipeline, or water delivery system, or the amount of the
annual allocation of water from the San Benito County Water District, no person
shall use or allow to be used on a parcel agricultural water/non-potable
supplied by CSA 31 in excess of the parcel’s cumulative monthly water
agricultural allotment.
(Ord. 927, § 2 (part), 2014)
§ 15.05.251 PERMANENT WATER CONSERVATION MEASURES - DOMESTIC SUPPLY:
ALLOTMENTS.
   (A)   The Board of Supervisors may establish, by resolution or ordinance, in
its discretion, a monthly domestic water allotment of the potable water
supplied by the CSA 31 well. The county shall consult with the Board of
Directors of the Stonegate Homeowners Association regarding establishing any
allotments or making a change in allotments.
   (B)   No person shall use or allow to be used on a parcel domestic/potable
supplied by CSA 31 in excess of the monthly domestic water allotment.
(Ord. 927, § 2 (part), 2014)
§ 15.05.252 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Discontinue service/water flow device. After providing due process,
the county, in its sole discretion, may discontinue service or place a flow
restricting device on the meters or water supply lines of consumers who violate
provisions of this article.
   (B)   In the application and enforcement of the conservation measures
required by this article, every water customer is deemed to have under his or
her control at all times his or her water distribution lines and facilities,
and to know the manner and extent of his or her water use.
   (C)   Each breach of this article shall constitute a separate violation
punishable as set forth below. Each day a violation is committed or permitted
to continue shall constitute a separate offense and shall be punishable as
such.
   (D)   All the remedies stated in this article, and/or otherwise available
under state law, shall be cumulative to any other remedy or penalty that may be
imposed for violation of this article.
   (E)   The Director of Public Works has primary responsible for enforcement
of this article. The Director, along with the county’s Code Enforcement
Officer, and/or any peace officer, shall be empowered to enforce the provisions
of this article and shall be authorized to issue citations to violators.
   (F)   Whenever any act or omission is made unlawful by this article, it
shall also be unlawful to cause, permit, aid, abet, allow, or conceal the fact
of such act or omission.
   (G)   In the event of verified line breakage which causes excess usage of
water which could not have been reasonably anticipated and prevented, there
shall be no violation of this article if the owner is able to bring his/her
water usage to within the “cumulative water allocation” for the parcel within
60 days of the line breakage. This period of time may be extended upon written
application to the Director, not to exceed an additional 30 days. The owner
shall be obligated to provide reasonable proof of the existence of the water
line breakage/malfunction in any appeal of any enforcement action taken.
(Ord. 927, § 2 (part), 2014)
§ 15.05.253 HARDSHIP WAIVER.
   (A)   Undue and disproportionate hardship. If due to unique circumstances, a
specific requirement of this article would result in undue hardship to a person
using water or to property upon which water is used, that is disproportionate
to the impacts to water users generally or to similar property or classes of
water users, then the person may apply for a waiver to the requirements as
provided in this section.
   (B)   Written finding. The waiver may be granted or conditionally granted
only upon written finding of the existence of facts demonstrating an undue
hardship.
   (C)   Application for a waiver. Application for a waiver must be on a form
prescribed by the Public Works Director or designee, and accompanied by a
nonrefundable processing fee, if established, in an amount set by resolution or
ordinance by the Board of Supervisors.
   (D)   Supporting documentation. The written application will be accompanied
by photographs, maps, drawings, or other pertinent information as applicable,
including a written statement of the applicant.
   (E)   Approval authority. The County Administrative Officer, or designee,
will exercise approval and act upon any completed application after submittal
and may approve, conditionally approve, or deny the variance. The Board of
Directors of the Stonegate Homeowners Association shall review this application
and make a recommendation to the County Administrative Officer regarding the
requested variance. The applicant requesting the variance will be promptly
notified in writing of the action taken. The decision of the County
Administrative Officer, or designee, is final, and not subject to appeal. At
the time a waiver is approved, it shall state the duration that it will apply
to the subject property. If not stated, the length of the waiver shall be to
the conclusion of the water year. The hardship waiver is nontransferable.
   (F)   Required findings for waiver. Based on information and supporting
documents provided in the application, additional information provided as
requested, and water use information for the property as shown by the records
of the county, the County Administrative Officer, or designee, in making the
waiver determination, will take into consideration the following:
      (1)   That the waiver does not constitute a grant of special privilege
inconsistent with the limitations upon other County Service Area 31 water
service customers;
      (2)   That because of special circumstances applicable to the property or
its use, the strict application of this article would have a disproportionate
impact on the property or use that exceeds the impacts to water service
customers generally;
      (3)   That the authorizing of such waiver will not be of substantial
detriment to adjacent properties, and will not materially affect the ability of
the county to effectuate the purpose of this article and will not be
detrimental to the public interest;
      (4)   That the condition or situation of the subject property or the
intended use of the property for which the waiver is sought is not common,
recurrent or general in nature; and
      (5)   Any person granted relief on appeal for hardship may be required as
a condition of that relief, to install water saving devices, as determined by
the county and made every reasonable effort to reduce water use.
(Ord. 927, § 2 (part), 2014)
§ 15.05.254 VIOLATIONS AND REMEDIES.
   (A)   Notice of noncompliance. If any person fails or refuses to comply with
this article, the Public Works Director, or his/her designee shall provide that
person with written notice of the violation and an opportunity to correct the
noncompliance when the notice specifies a time in which the violation can be
corrected. The written notice shall:
      (1)   Be posted or presented at the site of the noncompliance;
      (2)   State the time, date, and place of violation;
      (3)   State a general description of the violation;
      (4)   State the means to correct the violation;
      (5)   State a date by which correction is required;
      (6)   State the possible consequences of failing to correct the
violation; and
      (7)   Include appeal and hearing rights and procedures; and
      (8)   A copy of the written notice shall be mailed to the owner of the
property.
   (B)   Compliance remedies. Failure to correct the notice of noncompliance
violation within the time specified in the written notice will result in one or
more of the following actions after providing appropriate due process, in
addition to the other remedies set forth in this article.
      (1)   Any penalties, surcharges or increased charges incurred by the
county for excessive use by customers shall be passed on to the customers
causing the excessive use of water to the extent allowed by law.
      (2)   Impose an administrative citation per existing county ordinances.
      (3)   Place a flow restricting device on the meter. Payment of the
county’s charges for installing and/or removing any flow restricting device and
for disconnecting and/or reconnecting service per the county’s schedule of
charges then in effect is the responsibility of the property’s owner.
      (4)   Abate the violation as a nuisance in accordance with this article,
and/or any other provision of the San Benito County Code or state law.
   (C)   Appeals. All nuisance abatement proceedings related to this article,
including any notice of non-compliance, invoice for costs, and disconnection
decisions, may be appealed as set forth herein; except, notwithstanding the
above, actions already proceeding in civil court are not appealable and appeals
of administrative citations shall be exclusively handled through the
administrative citation appeals process. Any person receiving a notice of
noncompliance, an invoice for costs, or any person who is subject to any
adverse determination made pursuant to this article (except those already
proceeding in civil court and/or appeals of administrative citations), may
appeal the matter by requesting an administrative hearing.
   (D)   Request for administrative hearing. Any person appealing nuisance
abatement proceedings, a notice of noncompliance, or an invoice for costs),
shall, within fifteen days of receipt thereof, file a written request for an
administrative hearing, accompanied by an administrative hearing fee as
established by separate resolution or ordinance, with the office of the Clerk
of the Board, located at 481 Fourth St., 1st Floor, Hollister, CA 95023, except
that appeals of Administrative Citations shall be pursuant to the procedures
set forth in Chapter 1.04 of the San Benito County Code. Appeals of termination
of water service and placement of flow restricting devices shall be made within
three business days of receipt thereof. Even pending appeal, the county
reserves its right to summarily abate any public nuisance. The failure to
timely appeal a decision, in writing, shall bar and waive all further appeals
and result in the decision or action in question becoming final and non-
appealable.
   (E)   The appeal shall be on a form provided by the Clerk of the Board and
shall set forth with particularity the specific grounds upon which the appeal
is made. At minimum, the appeal shall include a description of the issues,
evidence supporting the claim, and the resolution sought. Any grounds not set
forth in the written appeal shall be deemed waived and the appellant shall
thereafter be precluded from raising them. The Clerk of the Board has authority
to reject any appeal which is incomplete. Thereafter, a hearing on the matter
shall be held before the Board of Supervisors within fifteen business days of
the date of filing of the written request, or at the next regularly scheduled
Board of Supervisors meeting following that fifteen day period, unless, in the
reasonable discretion of the Chair of the Board of Supervisors, and pursuant to
a written request by the appealing party or the county, a continuance of the
hearing is granted. However, appeals of termination of water service and
placement of flow restricting devices shall be made within ten business days of
receipt thereof, or at the next regularly scheduled Board of Supervisors
meeting following that ten day period, and no continuances shall be granted
unless mutually agreed to by the county and the appellant.
   (F)   Hearing proceedings. The Public Works Director or his/her designee,
and/or employee issuing the notice of noncompliance, invoice for costs or
adverse determination shall appear in support of the notice, invoice for costs,
or determination, and the appealing party shall appear in support of dismissal
of the notice, determination, and invoice for costs. Each party shall have the
right to present testimony, present their own witnesses and other documentary
evidence as necessary for explanation of their case. The hearing need not be
conducted according to technical rules relating to evidence and witnesses. Any
relevant evidence shall be admitted if it is the sort of evidence on which
responsible persons are accustomed to rely in the conduct of serious affairs,
regardless of the existence of any common law or statutory rule which might
make improper admission of such evidence over an objection in civil actions.
Hearsay evidence may be used for the purpose of supplementing or explaining any
direct evidence but shall not be sufficient in itself to support a finding by
the hearing officer, unless it would be admissible over an objection in civil
actions. The rules of privilege shall be effective to the same extent they are
now or hereafter may be recognized in civil actions, and irrelevant and unduly
repetitious evidence shall be excluded. The appealing party shall notify the
county 48 hours in advance of the hearing, if legal counsel will be present on
their behalf.
   (G)   The County Administrative Officer has the authority to settle or
resolve any appeal prior to the scheduled hearing.
   (H)   Final decision and appeal. The final decision of the hearing officer
shall be issued within 30 days of the conclusion of the hearing and shall be
delivered by first-class mail, postage prepaid, to the parties. The decision
shall include notice that it is final and any legal challenge to the final
decision shall be made pursuant to the provisions of Cal. Code of Civil
Procedure §§ 1094.5 and 1094.6 and shall be commenced within 90 days following
its issuance. The administrative hearing fee paid by a prevailing party in an
appeal shall be refunded.
(Ord. 927, § 2 (part), 2014)
§ 15.05.255 CRIMINAL PENALTIES.
   (A)   Infractions. A violation of this article shall constitute an
infraction, or a misdemeanor (see below.) An infraction is punishable by a fine
not to exceed $100 for the first conviction, $200 for the second conviction,
and/or $500 for the third and subsequent convictions within a year. The maximum
fine does not include court imposed penalty fees and assessments.
   (B)   Misdemeanors. Each violation of this article may be prosecuted as a
misdemeanor punishable by imprisonment in the county jail for not more than 30
days or by a fine not exceeding $1,000, or by both as provided in Cal. Water
Code § 377. The maximum fine does not include court imposed penalty fees and
assessments.
(Ord. 927, § 2 (part), 2014)
§ 15.05.256 CIVIL ADMINISTRATIVE FINES.
   (A)   Any violation of this article may be punished by the imposition of a
civil fine of $100 for a first offense, $200 for a second offense, and $500 for
each third or subsequent offense within a year. The Public Works Department
and/or the county’s Treasurer-Tax Collector are authorized to collect all
unpaid civil fines.
   (B)   Every customer/owner who has received water service from CSA 31 is
responsible for all civil fines resulting from any violation of this article
relating to that customer’s water whether or not violations are committed by
that person or third parties. Civil fines may be reduced or discharged if the
violation was beyond the control of the owner and if all reasonable means had
been previously taken to prevent the violation. “All reasonable means”
includes, but is not limited to, written warnings to tenants or other water
users and amendments to rental agreements where permitted by the lease.
(Ord. 927, § 2 (part), 2014)
§ 15.05.257 DISCONNECTION FROM WATER SERVICE.
   Upon the third or subsequent violation(s) of this article by an owner, or in
the event of water use in excess of the annual agricultural allotment, the
Director may order disconnection of water service on either a temporary or
permanent basis. Prior to any disconnection, the customer shall be provided a
“water usage violation notice/notice of disconnection” at least three business
days prior to service being disconnected.
(Ord. 927, § 2 (part), 2014)
§ 15.05.258 NUISANCES, ABATEMENT, INJUNCTIVE RELIEF.
   (A)   Any condition in violation of the prohibitions of this article shall
constitute a threat to the public health, safety and welfare, and is declared
and deemed a nuisance pursuant to state law. The County Administrative Officer
or the Board of Supervisors shall have the authority to summarily abate a
public nuisance, when allowed by law, without notice to the owner or persons
known to be in possession of the parcel. The expenses of such abatement shall
be assessed against the property as set forth in Chapter 1.03 of the San Benito
County Code.
   (B)   Additionally, the county may, upon order of the Board of Supervisors,
bring civil suit or administrative action to enjoin or abate the nuisance. In a
civil proceeding brought to abate a nuisance or to obtain injunctive relief
under this article, or in a civil action to recover costs resulting from a
summary abatement, any person who creates, causes, commits, permits, or
maintains a public nuisance in violation of this article shall be liable for
the costs of abatement, including but not limited to the following: (1) costs
of investigation; (2) costs of labor and parts to repair any affected water
system or premises, to bring such water system or premises into compliance with
this article, or to install facilities necessary to assure compliance with this
article; (3) court costs; (4) costs of monitoring compliance; and (5)
attorneys’ fees and costs, including the fees and costs of experts employed by
the county’s attorney if, at the initiation of the action or proceeding, the
county elects to seek to recover its attorneys’ fees pursuant to Cal. Gov’t
Code § 25845(c). Recovery of costs shall be in addition to and shall not limit
any prevailing party’s right to recover costs pursuant to Cal. Code of Civil
Procedure §§ 1032 and 1033.5 or any other provision of law. In no abatement
matter shall an award of attorneys’ fees to a prevailing party exceed the
amount of reasonable attorneys’ fees incurred by the county. Alternatively, the
county may, at its option, institute nuisance abatement proceedings by
following the code enforcement procedures set forth in the San Benito Code.
   (C)   Nuisance lien. All costs shall become a lien against the property from
which the nuisance emanated and a personal obligation against the owner thereof
in accordance with all applicable local and state laws. The owner of record of
the property subject to any lien shall be given notice of the lien prior to
recording as required by the Government Code.
   (D)   At the direction of the Board of Supervisors, County Counsel is
authorized to collect nuisance abatement costs or enforce a nuisance lien in an
action brought for a money judgment or by delivery to the County Assessor of a
special assessment against the property in accordance with the conditions and
requirements of state law.
(Ord. 927, § 2 (part), 2014)
CHAPTER 15.07: SEWERS AND SEWAGE DISPOSAL
Section
Article I. In General
   
15.07.001   Maintenance of sewage facilities injurious to health and the like
prohibited
   
15.07.002   Construction of individual sewage disposal systems
   
15.07.003   Enforcement of article
   
15.07.004   Non-liability of county
Article II. Septic Tank Services
   
15.07.020   “Cesspools”, “septic tanks” and “seepage pits” defined
   
15.07.021   Registration; required
   
15.07.022   Same; application
   
15.07.023   Same; expiration
   
15.07.024   Inspection of equipment
   
15.07.025   Reporting of cleaning of cesspools and the like
ARTICLE I. IN GENERAL
§ 15.07.001 MAINTENANCE OF SEWAGE FACILITIES INJURIOUS TO HEALTH AND THE LIKE
PROHIBITED.
   No person shall construct or maintain any privy, cesspool, septic tank,
sewage treatment works, sewer pipes or conduits for the treatment or discharge
of sewage or any matter or substance injurious or dangerous to health whereby
the sewage or matter or substance shall do any of the following:
   (A)   Overflow any land whatever; and
   (B)   Empty, flow, seep or drain into any well, spring, stream, river, lake
or other water, any of which acts would be injurious to health; provided, that
where compliance with this section, in the discretion of the Director of Public
Health, would not be feasible, the Director of Public Health may issue a
special permit allowing the variations from the provisions contained in this
section as will most nearly accomplish the general purpose and intent hereof.
(1966 Code, § 16-1) (Ord. 189, § 2)
§ 15.07.002 CONSTRUCTION OF INDIVIDUAL SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEMS.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall construct any residence, or other building where
people congregate or are employed, which is not to be connected to an approved
public sanitary sewer or construct a new sanitary disposal system, without
first notifying the Department of Public Health of the county, and obtain a
permit therefrom.
      (2)   Upon the notification, the Director of Public Health shall cause a
suitable inspection to be made and if it is found that conditions meet
requirements shall issue the permit without cost for each individual disposal
system.
   (B)   Disposal systems built under a permit as provided in this section
shall be constructed and maintained as will meet the requirements which may be
adopted by the Board of Supervisors.
(1966 Code, § 16-2) (Ord. 189, §§ 3,4)
§ 15.07.003 ENFORCEMENT OF ARTICLE.
   It shall be the duty of the Director of Public Health to enforce the
provisions of this chapter and, in the performance of this duty, the Director
of Public Health or his or her duly authorized agent is authorized to enter at
any reasonable hour any premises as may be necessary in the enforcement of this
chapter.
(1966 Code, § 16-3) (Ord. 189, § 5)
§ 15.07.004 NON-LIABILITY OF COUNTY.
   This chapter shall not impose upon the county any liability or
responsibility for damage or nuisance resulting from the defective construction
of any sanitary disposal system nor shall the county or any employee thereof be
held as assuming any such liability or responsibility by reason of the
inspection authorized under this chapter.
(1966 Code, § 16-4) (Ord. 189, § 9)
ARTICLE II. SEPTIC TANK SERVICES
§ 15.07.020 “CESSPOOLS”, “SEPTIC TANKS” AND “SEEPAGE PITS” DEFINED.
   For the purposes of this article, “cesspools,” “septic tanks” and “seepage
pits” shall be defined to include all manner of sewage disposal other than
regular sewage disposal plants and systems operated by a political subdivision
and holding a valid permit from the state’s Department of Public Health.
(1966 Code, § 16-5) (Ord. 188)
§ 15.07.021 REGISTRATION; REQUIRED.
   No person shall engage in the business of the cleaning of septic tanks,
subsurface disposal systems, cesspools or sewage seepage pits or dispose of the
cleaning therefrom in the county unless he or she shall hold an unrevoked
registration issued by the Health Officer of the county, or his or her duly
authorized representative, for the carrying on of the business.
(1966 Code, § 16-6) (Ord. 188)
§ 15.07.022 SAME; APPLICATION.
   (A)   All applications for registration under this article shall be filed
with the Health Officer of the county.
   (B)   (1)   The application shall state the name in full of the owner of the
business, if a partnership the names of each of the partners, the relation of
the applicant to the firm or partnership, the place of business and place of
residence of the applicant for registration and of each of the partners in the
business, if a partnership.
      (2)   The application shall be signed by the authorized officer of a
corporation, if a corporation, or by the managing partner, if a partnership or
by the owner.
(1966 Code, § 16-7) (Ord. 188)
§ 15.07.023 SAME; EXPIRATION.
   Registration under this article shall be only for the unexpired portion of
the calendar year in which application is made and, at the end of the calendar
year, all registration shall become void and of no effect.
(1966 Code, § 16-8) (Ord. 188)
§ 15.07.024 INSPECTION OF EQUIPMENT.
   The Health Officer shall examine all equipment used in processing septic
tanks, cesspools, subsurface disposal systems and seepage pits, owned or under
the control of each person registered under the provisions of this article, at
regular intervals not to exceed 90 days after the permit is granted.
(1966 Code, § 16-9) (Ord. 188)
§ 15.07.025 REPORTING OF CLEANING OF CESSPOOLS AND THE LIKE.
   Whenever a person cleans a septic tank or cesspool, he or she shall notify
the Health Officer upon the regulation form adopted by the Health Officer. The
form shall contain information such as the location of the septic tank,
cesspool or seepage pit the location of the disposal field where sewage
effluent or other materials have been finally disposed of or any other
information which the Health Officer by regulation may require. The reports
shall be transmitted to the Department of Public Health at the close of each
day.
(1966 Code, § 16-10) (Ord. 188)
CHAPTER 15.09: PUBLIC PROJECTS
Section
Article I: Public Works Projects Under California
Public Contract Code §§ 20100 et seq.
   
15.09.001   Purpose
   
15.09.002   Public Works role and responsibility
   
15.09.003   Public project defined
   
15.09.004   Expenditures not included in public projects
   
15.09.005   Informal and formal bidding
   
15.09.006   Informal bidding procedures
   
15.09.007   Formal bidding procedures
   
15.09.008   Rejection of bids
   
15.09.009   Cost estimate re-evaluation
   
15.09.010   Public project - plans and specifications
   
15.09.011   Awards
   
15.09.012   Splitting work prohibited
   
15.09.013   Purchasing and Contracting Policy Manual
Article II: Public Works Projects Under California
Public Contract Code §§ 22000 et seq.
   
15.09.050   Informal bid procedures
   
15.09.051   Contractors list
   
15.09.052   Notice inviting informal bids
   
15.09.053   Award of bids
ARTICLE I: PUBLIC WORKS PROJECTS UNDER CALIFORNIA
PUBLIC CONTRACT CODE §§ 20100 ET SEQ.
§ 15.09.001 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to adopt the provisions of the Cal. Public
Contract Code beginning at § 20100 as it relates to public projects engaged in
by the county.
(Ord. 851, § 1 (part), 2010)
§ 15.09.002 PUBLIC WORKS ROLE AND RESPONSIBILITY.
   The Public Works Department is the lead agency for all public projects and
all county building repair and/or maintenance. The bid documents and
solicitations will be administered and developed by the department, consistent
with requirements of state law, and reviewed and approved by County Counsel.
(Ord. 851, § 1 (part), 2010)
§ 15.09.003 PUBLIC PROJECT DEFINED.
   (A)   PUBLIC PROJECT means:
      (1)   A project for the erection, improvement, and repair of public
buildings and works.
      (2)   Work in or about streams, bays, waterfronts, embankments, or other
work for protection against overflow, except maintenance, repair or
reconstruction work.
      (3)   Supplies and materials used in maintenance, repair or
reconstruction work in or about streams, bays, waterfronts, embankments; or
other maintenance, repair or reconstruction for protection against overflow.
   (B)   The provisions of this chapter shall not change existing law regarding
inclusion or exclusion of labor or materials used for completion of the
project.
   (C)   Except for the erection, improvement and repair of public buildings,
the construction of dams, reservoirs, power plants and electrical transmission
lines of 230,000 volts and higher, nothing in this chapter shall apply to a
publicly owned water, power or waste disposal system.
(Ord. 851, § 1 (part), 2010)
§ 15.09.004 EXPENDITURES NOT INCLUDED IN PUBLIC PROJECTS.
   Expenditures for public projects shall not include the cost of:
   (A)   Equipment, supplies and materials acquired by a public agency to
enable the timely completion of a public project as defined in Cal. Public
Contract Code § 20150.2(c) let to a contractor.
   (B)   Plans, specifications, engineering and advertising required for public
projects.
(Ord. 851, § 1 (part), 2010)
§ 15.09.005 INFORMAL AND FORMAL BIDDING.
   (A)   The Cal. Public Contract Code § 20150.5 provides that each county
shall adopt an ordinance providing for formal and informal bidding procedures
consistent with Cal. Public Contract Code §§ 20150.1 through 20150.14
   (B)   Public projects between $4,000 and $10,000 shall be let to contract by
informal or formal bidding procedures.
   (C)   Public projects of $10,000 and more shall be let to contract by formal
bidding procedures.
(Ord. 851, § 1 (part), 2010)
§ 15.09.006 INFORMAL BIDDING PROCEDURES.
   Informal bidding procedures shall publish notice and may supplement mailed
notices to contractors. The notice shall describe in general terms the project
to be done and state a closing date for submission of informal bids.
Publication of notice shall be in a newspaper of general circulation printed
and published within the county. Notice shall be published in accordance with
Cal. Gov't Code § 6061 and shall be completed at least 24 hours before the time
scheduled for opening of bids. In addition, the county may also publish a
notice inviting bids in a trade publication.
(Ord. 851, § 1 (part), 2010)
§ 15.09.007 FORMAL BIDDING PROCEDURES.
   Formal bidding procedures shall state the time and place for the receiving
and opening of sealed bids and distinctly state the project to be done. The
first publication or posting of the notice shall be at least ten days before
the date of opening the bids. Notice shall be published at least twice, not
less than five days apart, in a newspaper of general circulation, printed and
published in the jurisdiction of the county. In addition, the county may also
publish a notice inviting bids in a trade publication.
(Ord. 851, § 1 (part), 2010)
§ 15.09.008 REJECTION OF BIDS.
   In its discretion, the county may reject any bids presented. If after the
first invitation for bids, all bids are rejected after reevaluating its cost
estimates of the project, the county shall abandon the project or shall
readvertise for bids in the manner prescribed by this chapter. If, after
readvertising, the county rejects all bids presented, the county may proceed
with the project by use of county personnel or may readvertise. If two or more
bids are the same and the lowest, the county may accept the one it chooses. If
no bids are received, the county may have the project done without further
complying with this chapter.
(Ord. 851, § 1 (part), 2010)
§ 15.09.009 COST ESTIMATE RE-EVALUATION.
   Notwithstanding the provisions of §
15.09.008, if, after the first invitation for bids, all bids are rejected, the
county may, after reevaluating its cost estimates of the project, pass a
resolution by a four-fifths vote of its Board of Supervisors declaring that the
project can be performed more economically by county personnel, or that in its
opinion a contract to perform the project can be negotiated at a lower price
than that in any of the bids, or the materials or supplies furnished at a lower
price in the open market. Upon adoption of the resolution, it may have the
project done in the manner stated without further complying with this chapter.
(Ord. 851, § 1 (part), 2010)
§ 15.09.010 PUBLIC PROJECT - PLANS AND SPECIFICATIONS.
   The Board of Supervisors of the county shall adopt plans, specifications and
working details for all public projects the expenditure for which exceeds
$10,000.
(Ord. 851, § 1 (part), 2010)
§ 15.09.011 AWARDS.
   Awards will be made to the lowest responsive, responsible bidder in
conformance with award criteria set forth in Cal. Gov't Code § 25501, Cal.
Public Contract Code §§ 20120 et seq. and Cal. Labor Code §§ 1720, et seq.
(Ord. 851, § 1 (part), 2010)
§ 15.09.012 SPLITTING WORK PROHIBITED.
   It is unlawful to split or separate into smaller work orders or projects any
public project for the purpose of evading the provisions of this chapter
requiring public projects to be done by contract after bidding. Every person
who willfully violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Ord. 851, § 1 (part), 2010)
§ 15.09.013 PURCHASING AND CONTRACTING POLICY MANUAL.
   Board adoption of this chapter shall be accompanied by the adoption of a
County Purchasing and Contracting Policy Manual identifying specific procedures
in regards to public projects, to implement the provisions of this chapter.
From time to time, it may be amended and updated as deemed appropriate by the
Board of Supervisors.
(Ord. 851, § 1 (part), 2010)
ARTICLE II: PUBLIC WORKS PROJECTS UNDER CALIFORNIA
PUBLIC CONTRACT CODE §§ 22000 ET SEQ.
§ 15.09.050 INFORMAL BID PROCEDURES.
   Public projects, as defined by the Act and in accordance with the limits
listed in § 22032 of the Cal. Public Contract Code, may be let to contract by
informal procedures as set forth in §§ 22032, et seq., of the Cal. Public
Contract Code.
(Ord. 1060, § 3 (part), 2023)
§ 15.09.051 CONTRACTORS LIST.
   The agency shall comply with the requirements of the Cal. Public Contract
Code § 22034.
(Ord. 1060, § 3 (part), 2023)
§ 15.09.052 NOTICE INVITING INFORMAL BIDS.
   Where a public project is to be performed which is subject to the provisions
of this article, a notice inviting informal bids shall be circulated using one
or both of the following alternatives:
   (A)   Notices inviting informal bids may be mailed, faxed, or emailed to all
contractors for the category of work to be bid, as shown on the list developed
in accordance with §
15.09.051.
   (B)   Notices inviting informal bids may be mailed to all construction trade
journals as specified by the California Uniform Construction Cost Accounting
Commission in accordance with § 22036 of the Cal. Public Contract Code.
Additional contractors and/or construction trade journals may be notified at
the discretion of the department/agency soliciting bids provided however:
      (1)   If the product or service is proprietary in nature such that it can
be obtained only from a certain contractor or contractors, the notice inviting
informal bids may be sent exclusively to such contractor or contractors.
(Ord. 1060, § 3 (part), 2023)
§ 15.09.053 AWARD OF BIDS.
   The County Administrative Officer, the County Purchasing Agent, and the
Director of Public Works are each authorized to award informal contracts
[pursuant to the Uniform Construction Cost Accounting Act] pursuant to this
section.
(Ord. 1060, § 3 (part), 2023)
TITLE 17: TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
17.01.   MOTOR VEHICLES AND TRAFFIC
      
17.02.   STOPPING, STANDING, AND PARKING
CHAPTER 17.01: MOTOR VEHICLES AND TRAFFIC
Section
Article I. In General
   
17.01.001   Definitions
   
17.01.002   Speed limits on certain roads
   
17.01.003   Interference with, following, approaching and the like authorized
emergency vehicles
   
17.01.004   Distinctive highway markings; designated; adopted
   
17.01.005   Same; obedience
   
17.01.006   Use of vehicles with cleats and the like on tires prohibited
   
17.01.007   Public parks and playgrounds; reckless driving prohibited
   
17.01.008   Same; speed contests prohibited
Article II. Junked, Abandoned and the Like Vehicles
   
17.01.020   Declared nuisance
   
17.01.021   Definitions
   
17.01.022   Exceptions to article
   
17.01.023   Article to be supplementary to existing law
   
17.01.024   Administration of article by Sheriff; right of entry
   
17.01.025   Right of entry of persons authorized to remove violating vehicles
   
17.01.026   Board of Supervisors to fix administrative costs
   
17.01.027   Notice of intention to abate and remove
   
17.01.028   Requests for public hearing; notice of hearing
   
17.01.029   Conduct of hearings; findings and orders of Board of Supervisors
   
17.01.030   Disposal of vehicle
   
17.01.031   Notice of removal to be sent to Department of Motor Vehicles
   
17.01.032   Costs to be collected as taxes
   
17.01.033   Penalty for abandoning vehicle or for refusing to abate nuisance
Cross-reference:
   Roads and Highways, see
Chapter 19.27 of this code
Statutory reference:
   Authority of county to decrease the prima facie speed limits, see Cal.
Vehicle Code § 22358
   Distinctive roadway markings, see Cal. Vehicle Code §§ 21459, 21460
   Protuberances on tires, see Cal. Vehicle Code § 27454
   Right-of-way of authorized emergency vehicles, see Cal. Vehicle Code § 21806
ARTICLE I. IN GENERAL
§ 17.01.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following words and phrases shall have
the meanings respectively ascribed to them by this section.
   ALLEY. Any open passageway commonly used for private travel only.
   AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLE. All authorized emergency vehicles, as defined
in the Vehicle Code of the state.
   LANE. Any open passageway not commonly used by the general public for the
purpose of travel.
   OPERATOR. Any person who is in actual physical control of a vehicle.
   PRIVATE ROAD OR DRIVEWAY. As defined in the Vehicle Code of the state.
   PUBLIC HIGHWAY. Any highway, road, street, way or place, of whatever nature,
outside of incorporated municipalities, open to the use of the public for
purposes of vehicular travel.
   VEHICLE. A device in, upon or by which any person or property is or may be
propelled, moved or drawn upon a public highway, including a bicycle or such
other vehicle of propulsion moved by human power.
(1966 Code, § 9-1) (Ord. 115, § 1; Ord. 174, § 1)
§ 17.01.002 SPEED LIMITS ON CERTAIN ROADS.
   (A)   Upon the basis of an engineering and traffic survey, the basic speed
limit of 55 mph maximum is determined and declared to be more than a reasonable
or safe speed for any person to drive a vehicle on the highways described in
this section.
   (B)   (1)   No person shall drive a vehicle on the following highways at a
speed greater than that provided respectively for each highway; provided, that
this section shall not apply when traffic is under the control and supervision
of a traffic officer:
Road Extent Speed Limit in Miles Per Hour
Road                     Extent                      Speed Limit in Miles Per
                                                     Hour
Airline Highway (Highway Starting at San Felipe Road
25 Bypass)               to Santa Ana Road           55 m.p.h.
                         intersection
Airline Highway (Highway County portions between
25 Bypass)               Santa Ana and Sunnyslope    45
                         Roads
Anzar Road               Carr Avenue to San Juan     50
                         Highway
Beverly Drive            Sunnyslope Road to the end  25
Bixby Road               Highway 156 to Duncan       45
                         Avenue
Bonnie View Road         Sunnyslope Road to the end  25
Buena Vista Road         Hollister city limits to    40
                         the end
Carpenteria              Monterey county line to     35
                         Monterey county line
                         Starting at Carr Avenue/
Carr Avenue              Carpenteria Road            25
                         intersection, to Mile
                         Marker 1.275
                         Starting at Mile Marker
Carr Avenue              1.275 to intersection of    35
                         Anzar Road and Aromitas
                         Road Mile Marker 1.633
Chappell Road            Hollister city limits to    40
                         Hollister city limits
 
Road Extent Speed Limit in Miles Per Hour
Road              Extent                          Speed Limit in Miles Per Hour
                  Hollister city limits to Union  35
Cienega Road      Bridge
                  Union Bridge to Hospital        45
                  Hospital to Mile Post 12.95     50
Comstock Road     From Fairview Road to beginning 45
                  of first curve
Creekside Court   Sunset Drive to end             25
Daffodil Drive    Santa Ana Road to Jonquil Lane  25
Duncan Avenue     Bixby Road to Lucy Brown        50
El Toro Drive     Hollister city limits to        25
                  Hollister city limits
                  Highway 25 to 200 feet west of  30
                  last residential driveway
Enterprise Road   Southside Road to Airline       40
                  Highway
                  West of residential zone        45
Fallon Road       Fallon Road between Fairview    50
                  Road and Spring Grove Road
Flint Road        Highway 156 to Freitas Road     35
Fourth Street     Fairview Road to end            25
Freitas Road      Bixby Road to Mitchell Road     50
Fremont Peak Road San Juan Bautista to state park 35
                  boundary
Gardenia Lane     Santa Ana Road to end           25
Hillcrest Road    Hollister city limits to        40
                  Fairview Road
Holliday Drive    Sunnyslope Road to end          25
Jonquil Lane      Daffodil Drive to end           25
Line Street       Hollister city limits to        25
                  Hollister city limits
Lovers Lane       Shore Road to the San Benito-   40
                  Santa Clara county line
Lucy Brown Road   Highway 156 to San Justo Road   50
                  From mile post 0.00 at its
                  intersection with Lone Tree
Magladry Road     Road to the end of county       35
                  maintained road at mile post
                  0.415
McCloskey Road    McCloskey Road between Fairview 55
                  Road and the city limits
Mission Vineyard  Highway 156 to San Juan Road    45
Nash Road         Hollister city limits to        25
                  Hollister city limits
Olympia Road      Bixby Road to Lucy Brown        50
Prospect Avenue   Hollister city limits to        40
                  Hollister city limits
San Felipe Road   McCloskey Road to Fallon Road   40
                  State Highway 156 at San        35
San Juan          Hollister Road
                  Juan Bridge to Sewer Farm Road  35
 
Road Extent Speed Limit in Miles Per Hour
Road             Extent                           Speed Limit in Miles Per Hour
                 Fairview Road to Hollister city  40
Santa Ana Road   limits
                 At Seventh-Day Adventist School  25
Seely Avenue     Carpenteria to end               25
Snyder Avenue    Carpenteria to end               25
                 Southside Road from mile post
                 0.00 at its intersection with
Southside Road   Hwy 25 in the Town of Tres Pinos 45
                 to mile post 6.33 (1,200 feet
                 north of the Southside Road and
                 Union Road intersection).
                 Hollister city limits to         35
Sunnyslope Road  Fairview Road
                 Hollister city limits to         25
                 Hollister city limits
                 Sunset Drive to end              25
Sunrise Drive    Holliday Drive to end            25
                 Hollister city limits to Valley  25
                 View Road
Valley View Road Airline Highway to Sunnyslope    25
                 Road
Wright Road      Box 821 (George Perry Ranch) to  40
                 Buena Vista Road
 
      (2)   The County Engineer and Road Commissioner shall erect appropriate
signs indicating the prima facie speed limit for the respective highways as
established by this section upon the highways.
(1966 Code, § 9-2) (Ord. 268, §§ 2 to 4; Ord. 298; Ord. 305; Ord. 317, § 1;
Ord. 420; Ord. 458; Ord. 514; Ord. 755, § 2; Ord. 756, § 2; Ord. 787, § 2; Ord.
790, § 2; Ord. 838, §§ 2, 3, 4; Ord. 844, § 2, 2009; Ord. 852, § 2, 2010; Ord.
867, § 2, 2011; Ord. 886, §§ 2, 3, 2011; Ord. 892, § 2, 2012)
§ 17.01.003 INTERFERENCE WITH, FOLLOWING, APPROACHING AND THE LIKE AUTHORIZED
EMERGENCY VEHICLES.
   (A)   No person shall operate, drive, stop or park any vehicle upon the
public highways or any private road or driveway so as to interfere with or
obstruct the operation of any authorized emergency vehicle.
   (B)   No person operating any vehicle upon a public highway or any private
road or driveway shall operate or drive the vehicle so that it will move in the
same direction that any authorized emergency vehicle, giving audible signal by
siren and having at least one lighted lamp exhibiting red light visible under
normal atmospheric conditions from a distance of 500 feet to the front of the
vehicle, is traveling until the authorized emergency vehicle shall be at least
1,000 feet distant, and no person shall operate or drive any vehicle so as to
approach within 1,000 feet of the authorized emergency vehicle, giving audible
signal by siren and having at least one lighted lamp exhibiting red light
visible under normal atmospheric conditions from a distance of 500 feet to the
front of the vehicle.
   (C)   No person shall operate any vehicle upon the public highways or
private road or driveway so as to approach within 1,000 feet of any authorized
emergency vehicle when the authorized emergency vehicle is engaged in
extinguishing fire or when the authorized emergency vehicle is actively engaged
at the scene of any bombing, act of sabotage, accident, explosion, flood, riot,
earthquake or any emergency.
   (D)   No person shall park, stop or abandon any vehicle within 1,000 feet of
any authorized emergency vehicle when the authorized emergency vehicle is
engaged in extinguishing fire or when the authorized emergency vehicle is
actively engaged at the scene of any bombing, act of sabotage, accident,
explosion, flood, riot, earthquake or any emergency.
   (E)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to the following
persons:
      (1)   All authorized emergency vehicles and persons operating the same;
and/or
      (2)   Any person lawfully ordered to do otherwise by any public officer
or firefighter.
(1966 Code, § 9-3) (Ord. 174, §§ 1 to 5)
§ 17.01.004 DISTINCTIVE HIGHWAY MARKINGS; DESIGNATED; ADOPTED.
   (A)   The distinctive roadway markings described in this section, consisting
of the double line in use on state highways and adopted for use on state
highways to indicate no driving over the marking, is hereby designated as
applicable to all streets, roads and highways under the jurisdiction of the
county.
   (B)   The distinctive highway markings adopted by this section shall consist
of two white stripes, or of one white stripe and one yellow stripe, painted on
the roadway, each stripe three inches wide, and the two stripes separated by a
three-inch black stripe. Where one yellow stripe is used, driving over the
double line by traffic proceeding on the same side of the highway as the yellow
stripe shall not be prohibited by reason of the distinctive marking.
   (C)   The purpose of the combination of the white and yellow stripes is to
require driving to the right of the distinctive marking by traffic proceeding
in one direction but not by traffic proceeding in the opposite direction.
   (D)   The three-inch black stripe referred to in this section may be
obtained either by painting or by the effect of bituminous pavements.
   (E)   Signs shall not be required in connection with the distinctive
markings.
   (F)   The County Surveyor is authorized to place the distinctive marking on
any portion of the roads, highways or streets under his or her jurisdiction
where the volume of traffic or the vertical or other curvature of the roadway
renders it hazardous to drive on the left side of the marking or signs and
markings.
(1966 Code, § 9-4) (Ord. 134, §§ 1 to 6)
§ 17.01.005 SAME; OBEDIENCE.
   No person shall drive to the left of any distinctive highway marking set out
in the preceding section, except as provided in the section.
(1966 Code, § 9-5) (Ord. 134, § 7)
§ 17.01.006 USE OF VEHICLES WITH CLEATS AND THE LIKE ON TIRES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No tire used on any vehicle upon any county road shall have, on its
periphery, any block, stud, flange, cleat, ridge, bead or any other
protuberance of metal or wood which projects beyond the tread of the traction
surface of the tire.
   (B)   This section shall not prohibit the use of tire chains of reasonable
size to prevent skidding upon wet surfaces, or when upon snow or ice, nor to
pneumatic tires which may have embedded therein wire not to exceed .075-inch in
diameter and which are so constructed that under no conditions will the
percentage of metal in contact with the roadway exceed 5% of the total tire
area in contact with the roadway; and the restrictions of this section shall
not apply to vehicles operating upon unimproved roadways or to traction engines
or tractors when operating under conditions of a permit first obtained from the
county’s Road Commissioner.
(1966 Code, § 9-6) (Ord. 184, § 1)
§ 17.01.007 PUBLIC PARKS AND PLAYGROUNDS; RECKLESS DRIVING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Any person who drives any vehicle in any public park or playground
within the county in willful or wanton disregard for the safety of persons or
property is guilty of reckless driving and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
punished by imprisonment in the county jail for not less than five days, nor
more than 90, days or by fine of not less $25, nor more than $250, or by both
the fine and imprisonment, except as provided below.
   (B)   Whenever reckless driving of a vehicle proximately causes bodily
injury to any person, the person driving the vehicle shall, upon conviction
thereof, be punished by imprisonment in the county jail for not less than 30
days, nor more than six months, or by fine of not less than $100, nor more than
$500, or by both.
(1966 Code, § 9-7) (Ord. 261, §§ 1, 2)
§ 17.01.008 SAME; SPEED CONTESTS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall engage in any unauthorized motor vehicle speed contest
or exhibition of speed in any public park or playground within the county and
no person shall aid or abet in any unauthorized vehicle speed contest or
exhibition of speed in any public park or playground within the county.
   (B)   Any person who violates this section shall upon conviction thereof be
punished by imprisonment in the county jail for not more than 90 days or by
fine of not more than $250 or by both the fine and imprisonment.
(1966 Code, § 9-8) (Ord. 261, § 3)
ARTICLE II. JUNKED, ABANDONED AND THE LIKE VEHICLES
§ 17.01.020 DECLARED NUISANCE.
   In addition to and in accordance with the determination made and the
authority granted by the state under Cal. Vehicle Code § 22660 to remove
abandoned, wrecked, dismantled or inoperative vehicles or parts thereof as
public nuisances, the Board of Supervisors of the county hereby makes the
following findings and declaration: The accumulation and storage of abandoned,
wrecked, dismantled or inoperative vehicles or parts thereof on private or
public property not including highways is hereby found to create a condition
tending to reduce the value of private property, to promote blight and
deterioration, to invite plundering, to create fire hazards, to constitute an
attractive nuisance creating a hazard to the health and safety of minors, to
create a harborage for rodents and insects and to be injurious to the health,
safety and general welfare. Therefore the presence of an abandoned, wrecked,
dismantled or inoperative vehicle or part thereof, on private or public
property not including highways, except as expressly hereinafter permitted, is
hereby declared to constitute a public nuisance which may be abated as such in
accordance with the provisions of this article.
(1966 Code, § 9-9) (Ord. 277, § 1)
§ 17.01.021 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this article, the following words and phrases shall have
the meanings respectively ascribed to them by this section.
   HIGHWAY. A way or place of whatever nature, publicly maintained and open to
the use of the public for purposes of vehicular travel. HIGHWAY includes
STREET.
   PUBLIC PROPERTY. Does not include “highway”.
   VEHICLE. A device by which any person or property may be propelled moved, or
drawn upon a highway, except a device moved by human power or used exclusively
upon stationary rails or tracks.
(1966 Code, § 9-10) (Ord. 277, § 1)
§ 17.01.022 EXCEPTIONS TO ARTICLE.
   (A)   This article shall not apply to:
      (1)   A vehicle or part thereof which is completely enclosed within a
building in a lawful manner where it is not visible from the street or other
public or private property;
      (2)   A vehicle or part thereof which is stored or parked in a lawful
manner on private property in connection with the business of a licensed
dismantler, licensed vehicle dealer, a junk dealer, or when the storage or
parking is necessary to the operation of a lawfully conducted business or
commercial enterprise; or
      (3)   A vehicle or part thereof which is completely enclosed within a
building in a lawful manner where it is not visible from the street or highway
or other public or private property.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall authorize the maintenance of a public or
private nuisance, as defined under provisions of law other than Cal. Vehicle
Code Chapter 10 (commencing with § 22650) of Division 11 and this article.
(1966 Code, § 9-11) (Ord. 277, § 2; Ord. 362)
§ 17.01.023 ARTICLE TO BE SUPPLEMENTARY TO EXISTING LAW.
   This article is not the exclusive regulation of abandoned, wrecked,
dismantled or inoperative vehicles within the unincorporated area of the
county. It shall supplement and be in addition to the other regulatory codes,
statutes and ordinances heretofore or hereafter enacted by the county, the
state or any other legal entity or agency having jurisdiction.
(1966 Code, § 9-12) (Ord. 277, § 3)
§ 17.01.024 ADMINISTRATION OF ARTICLE BY SHERIFF; RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   Except as otherwise provided herein, the provisions of this article shall be
administered and enforced by the Sheriff of the county. In the enforcement of
this article, the officer and his or her deputies may enter upon private or
public property to examine a vehicle or parts thereof, or obtain information as
to the identity of a vehicle and to remove or cause the removal of a vehicle or
part thereof declared to be a nuisance pursuant to this article.
(1966 Code, § 9-13) (Ord. 277, § 4)
§ 17.01.025 RIGHT OF ENTRY OF PERSONS AUTHORIZED TO REMOVE VIOLATING VEHICLES.
   When the Board of Supervisors has contracted with or granted a franchise to
any person or persons, the person or persons shall be authorized to enter upon
private property or public property to remove or cause the removal of a vehicle
or parts thereof declared to be a nuisance pursuant to this article.
(1966 Code, § 9-14) (Ord. 277, § 5)
§ 17.01.026 BOARD OF SUPERVISORS TO FIX ADMINISTRATIVE COSTS.
   The Board of Supervisors shall from time to time by resolution determine and
fix an amount to be assessed as administrative costs, exclusive of the actual
cost of removal of any vehicle or part thereof under this article.
(1966 Code, § 9-15) (Ord. 277, § 6)
§ 17.01.027 NOTICE OF INTENTION TO ABATE AND REMOVE.
   Notice of intention to abate and remove a vehicle or part thereof as a
public nuisance shall be given at least ten days before the abatement and
removal. The notice shall contain a statement of the hearing rights of the
owner of the property on which the vehicle is located and the owner of the
vehicle. The statement shall include notice to the property owner that he or
she may appear in person at a hearing or may present a sworn written statement
denying responsibility for the presence of the vehicle on the land with his or
her reasons for the denial, in lieu of appearing. The notice of intention to
abate and remove shall be mailed by registered mail to the owner of land as
shown on the last equalized assessment roll and to the last registered and
legal owner of record unless the vehicle is in such condition that
identification numbers are not available to determine ownership.
(1966 Code, § 9-16) (Ord. 362)
§ 17.01.028 REQUESTS FOR PUBLIC HEARING; NOTICE OF HEARING.
   (A)   A public hearing shall be held before the Board of Supervisors of the
county upon request for such by the owner of the vehicle or the owner of land
on which the vehicle was located. The request shall be made to the Board of
Supervisors within ten days after the mailing of notice of intention to abate
and remove the vehicle. If the owner of land on which the vehicle is located
submits a sworn written statement denying responsibility for the presence of
the vehicle on his or her land within such time period, this statement shall be
construed as a request for hearing which does not require the presence of the
owner submitting the request. If such a request is not received within the
period, the Sheriff, his or her deputies, assistants or employees have the
authority to remove the vehicle, and in such cases the Board of Supervisors
shall assess administrative and removal costs.
   (B)   If a hearing is requested or construed to be requested the Board of
Supervisors shall set a time for hearing. Fifteen days’ notice of hearing shall
be mailed to all parties requesting a hearing and to all land owners who have
submitted sworn written statements denying liability.
(1966 Code, § 9-17) (Ord. 277, § 7; Ord. 362)
§ 17.01.029 CONDUCT OF HEARINGS; FINDINGS AND ORDERS OF BOARD OF SUPERVISORS.
   (A)   All hearings under this article shall be before the Board of
Supervisors of the county, which shall hear all facts and testimony it deems
pertinent. The facts and testimony may include testimony on the condition of
the vehicle or part thereof and the circumstances concerning its location on
the private property or public property. The Board of Supervisors shall not be
limited by the technical rules of evidence. The owner of land on which the
vehicle is located may appear in person at the hearing or may present a sworn
written statement denying responsibility for the presence of the vehicle on the
land with his or her reasons for the denial.
   (B)   The Board of Supervisors may impose such conditions and take such
other action as it deems appropriate under the circumstances to carry out the
purpose of this article. It may delay the time for removal of the vehicle or
part thereof, if, in its opinion, the circumstances justify it. At the
conclusion of the public hearing, the Board of Supervisors may find that a
vehicle or part thereof has been abandoned, wrecked, dismantled or is
inoperative on private or public property and order the same removed from the
property as a public nuisance and disposed of, as hereinafter provided, and
determine the administrative costs and the costs of removal to be charged
against the owner of the parcel of land on which the vehicle or part thereof is
located. The order requiring removal shall include a description of the vehicle
or part thereof and the correct identification number and license number of the
vehicle, if available, at the site.
   (C)   If it is determined at the hearing that the vehicle was placed on the
land without the consent of the landowner and that he or she has not
subsequently acquiesced in its presence, the Board of Supervisors shall not
assess costs of administration or removal of the vehicle against the property
upon which the vehicle is located or otherwise attempt to collect the costs
from the landowner.
(1966 Code, § 9-18) (Ord. 277, § 9; Ord. 362)
§ 17.01.030 DISPOSAL OF VEHICLE.
   Upon removal of a vehicle by the Sheriff, his or her deputies, assistants or
employees under §
17.01.028, or not less than 30 days after action by the Board of Supervisors
authorizing removal, the vehicle or parts thereof may be disposed of by removal
to a scrapyard. After a vehicle has been removed, it shall not thereafter be
reconstructed or made operable.
(1966 Code, § 9-19) (Ord. 277, § 10; Ord. 362)
§ 17.01.031 NOTICE OF REMOVAL TO BE SENT TO DEPARTMENT OF MOTOR VEHICLES.
   Within five days after the date of removal of the vehicle or part thereof,
notice shall be given to the Department of Motor Vehicles identifying the
vehicle or part thereof removed. At the same time, there shall be transmitted
to the Department of Motor Vehicles any evidence of registration available,
including registration certificates, certificates of title and license plates.
(1966 Code, § 9-20) (Ord. 277, § 11)
§ 17.01.032 COSTS TO BE COLLECTED AS TAXES.
   If the administrative costs and the cost of removal which are charged
against a parcel of land pursuant to §§
17.01.028 and
17.01.029 are not paid within 30 days of the date of the order, the costs shall
be assessed against the parcel of land pursuant to Cal. Gov’t Code § 25845 and
shall be transmitted to the Tax Collector for collection. The assessment shall
have the same priority as other county taxes.
(1966 Code, § 9-21) (Ord. 277, § 12; Ord. 362)
§ 17.01.033 PENALTY FOR ABANDONING VEHICLE OR FOR REFUSING TO ABATE NUISANCE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful and a misdemeanor for any person to abandon,
park, store or leave or permit the abandonment, parking, storing or leaving of
any licensed or unlicensed vehicle or part thereof which is in an abandoned,
wrecked, dismantled or inoperative condition upon any private property or
public property not including highways within the county for a period in excess
of 30 days unless the vehicle or part thereof is completely enclosed within a
building in a lawful manner where it is not plainly visible from the street or
other public or private property, or unless the vehicle is stored or parked in
a lawful manner on private property in connection with the business of a
licensed dismantler, licensed vehicle dealer or a junk yard.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful and a misdemeanor for any person to fail or
refuse to remove an abandoned, wrecked, dismantled or inoperative vehicle or
part thereof or refuse to abate the nuisance when ordered to do so in
accordance with the abatement provisions of this article or state law where the
state law is applicable.
(1966 Code, § 9-22) (Ord. 277, §§ 13, 14)
CHAPTER 17.02: STOPPING, STANDING, AND PARKING
Section
   
17.02.001   Prohibitions; specified places
   
17.02.002   Prohibition; at all times
   
17.02.003   Parking; 72 hour limit
   
17.02.004   Parking; removal of vehicles
§ 17.02.001 PROHIBITIONS; SPECIFIED PLACES.
   (A)   (1)   The County Engineer is hereby authorized to prohibit stopping,
standing or parking, and is directed to place and maintain appropriate signs
and curb markings giving notice of this regulation at any place when such
prohibition, as indicated by a traffic engineering investigation, will
alleviate dangerous hazardous traffic conditions or facilitate the full use of
the roadway. The County Engineer is directed further to place and maintain
appropriate signs or curb markings giving notice that vehicles in violation of
this prohibition are subject to removal.
      (2)   It is unlawful to stop, park, or leave standing any vehicle,
whether attended or unattended, in any place so marked or signed.
   (B)   When the County Engineer, upon the basis of an engineering
investigation, finds that the conditions no longer exist to prohibit stopping,
standing or parking as authorized in §
17.02.001(A), the County Engineer may remove such signs and such curb markings
from such portion of such street or highway.
(Ord. 1,019, § 2)
§ 17.02.002 PROHIBITION; AT ALL TIMES.
   No person shall stop, park, or leave standing any vehicle, whether attended
or unattended, in any of the following places at any time, and the County
Engineer is directed to place and maintain appropriate signs or curb markings
giving notice of this regulation, and that vehicles in violation of such
regulations are subject to removal:
   (A)   In any place that obstructs or encroaches upon the triangular area
required to be kept clear for visibility, as set forth in San Benito County
Code §
25.29.013 "Unobstructed Sight Distance, Fences, Walls and Plantings;" and
   (B)   In any manner which will obstruct the view of drivers in vehicles
approaching an intersection of two roads or the intersection of a road and a
driveway
(Ord. 1,019, § 2)
§ 17.02.003 PARKING; 72 HOUR LIMIT.
   No person shall park any vehicle upon any county road or highway for 72 or
more consecutive hours. Any of the officers or employees who are authorized by
Chapter 10 of Division 11 of the Vehicle Code to remove a vehicle from a road
or highway is authorized to remove any such parked vehicle from such road in
the manner prescribed by the applicable provisions of said Chapter 10.
(Ord. 1,019, § 2)
§ 17.02.004 PARKING; REMOVAL OF VEHICLES.
   The San Benito County Sheriffs Office may remove or cause to be removed:
   (A)   Any vehicle that has been parked or left standing upon a street or
road or highway for 72 or more consecutive hours; or
   (B)   Any vehicle found to be in violation of §§
17.02.001,
17.02.002, or
17.02.003.
(Ord. 1,019, § 2)
TITLE 19: LAND USE AND ENVIRONMENTAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
19.01.   AGRICULTURAL PROVISIONS
      
19.03.   AIRPORT ZONING
      
19.05.   ARCHAEOLOGICAL SITE REVIEW
      
19.07.   COUNTY SERVICE AREAS
      
19.09.   COUNTY HIGHWAYS AND PARKS ADOPTION PROGRAM
      
19.11.   DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENTS
      
19.13.   SURFACE MINING OPERATIONS AND RECLAMATION
      
19.15.   FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
      
19.17.   GRADING, DRAINAGE AND EROSION CONTROL
      
19.19.   HABITAT CONSERVATION PLAN STUDY AREA
      
19.21.   OIL AND GAS WELLS
      
19.23.   PARKS
      
19.25.   PLAN LINES
      
19.27.   ROADS AND HIGHWAYS
      
19.29.   GENERAL PLAN AND SPECIFIC PLAN - LOCAL PROCEDURES
      
19.31.   DEVELOPMENT LIGHTING
      
19.33.   MANAGEMENT AND CONSERVATION OF WOODLANDS
      
19.35.   APPLE MAGGOT PROTECTION
      
19.37.   WEED ABATEMENT REGULATIONS
      
19.39.   NOISE CONTROL REGULATIONS
      
19.41.   INDEMNIFICATION
      
19.42.   [RESERVED]
      
19.43.   CANNABIS BUSINESS LAND USE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 19.01: AGRICULTURAL PROVISIONS
Section
Article I. Agricultural Community Disclosure
   
19.01.001   Findings
   
19.01.002   Purpose
   
19.01.003   Exemptions to this article
   
19.01.004   Definitions
   
19.01.005   Disclosure
   
19.01.006   Disputes; request for mediation
   
19.01.007   Disputes; Mediation Committee
   
19.01.008   Disputes; mediation procedure
   
19.01.009   Disputes; administrative procedures
Article II. Agricultural Preserves
   
19.01.020   Purpose
   
19.01.021   Creating, altering or terminating
   
19.01.022   Land Conservation Act contracts
   
19.01.023   Compatible uses
   
19.01.024   The Agricultural Preserve Advisory Committee
   
19.01.025   General procedures for the establishment of new agricultural
preserves, for altering existing agricultural preserves or for determining
compatible uses
   
19.01.026   General provisions
   
19.01.027   Enforcement
Cross-reference:
   Apple Maggot Protection, see
Chapter 19.35 of this code
   Fish and Game Commission, see
Chapter 3.05, Article VI, of this code
ARTICLE I. AGRICULTURAL COMMUNITY DISCLOSURE
§ 19.01.001 FINDINGS.
   The Board of Supervisors finds that commercially viable agricultural land
exists within the county and that it is in the public interest to preserve and
protect this land for agricultural operations. The Board of Supervisors also
finds that residential and non- residential development adjacent to, or nearby,
certain agricultural lands also conflicts with agricultural operations to the
potential detriment of the adjacent agricultural uses and of the economic
viability of the county’s agricultural industry as a whole.
(1966 Code, § 2A-1) (Ord. 624, § 2(part))
§ 19.01.002 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this article is to inform the owners and possessors of
property in the county that the use and enjoyment of property in the county
depends on the zoning district within which the property lies. Since the county
is an agricultural community, much property lies within, or adjacent to, a
zoning district that allows some form of agricultural operations to exist.
Therefore, owners and possessors of property in the county should expect that
the use and enjoyment of their property will depend on the subject zoning
district’s permissible and conditional uses, which uses in many cases will be a
form of agricultural operations.
(1966 Code, § 2A-2) (Ord. 624, § 2(part))
§ 19.01.003 EXEMPTIONS TO THIS ARTICLE.
   This article shall not be in any way construed as modifying or abridging
federal or state law, or county ordinances, including without limitation, the
zoning ordinance. This article does not authorize an agricultural operation to
unlawfully interfere with the use and enjoyment of property located in the
county.
(1966 Code, § 2A-3) (Ord. 624, § 2(part))
§ 19.01.004 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGRICULTURAL OPERATIONS. The cultivation and tillage of the soil; dairying;
the production, irrigation, cultivation, growing, harvesting and processing of
any agricultural commodity, including viticulture, horticulture, timber or
apiculture; the raising of livestock, fur-bearing animals, fish or poultry; and
commercial agricultural practices performed as incident to or in conjunction
with the operations, including preparations for market, delivery to storage, to
market or to carriers for transportation to market.
   TRANSFER OF AN INTEREST IN REAL PROPERTY. As the term is used in requiring
the recording of a disclosure statement, shall exclude:
      (1)   Transfers involving the creation of trust, where the trustor is the
same person as the trustee or a beneficiary; or
      (2)   Transfers from one co-owner to one or more other co-owners. Spouse
or former spouses may fall within this exclusion.
(1966 Code, § 2A-4) (Ord. 624, § 2(part))
§ 19.01.005 DISCLOSURE.
   The disclosure statement represented by Attachment A, which is attached to
the ordinance codified in this article, shall be required as specified.
   (A)   The county shall mail a copy of the disclosure statement to all owners
of real property interests located in the county in conjunction with the annual
tax statements, without regard to location of the real property.
   (B)   The Board elects that the local option disclosure form referred to in
Cal. Civil Code § 1102.6a shall be required in all transfers of real property
in the county. The Board further determines that Part I of the Local Option
Disclosure Statement in substantially the same form as represented by
Attachment A, which is attached to the ordinance codified in this article,
shall be utilized. At the time any deed is presented to the County Recorder’s
office for recording, the person presenting the deed for recordation shall
provide the County Recorder with a statement that a disclosure statement was
prepared and executed in accordance with Cal. Civil Code §§ 1102 et seq. or
that the transaction is exempt under §§ 1102 et seq. If a person presenting a
deed for recording fails to provide such a statement at the time of presenting
a deed for recording, then the deed shall be recorded and the Recorder’s office
shall mail a copy of the disclosure statement similar to the Attachment A to
the transferee who shall pay for the county’s costs of mailing the disclosure
and administering the agricultural disclosure program.
   (C)   All leases of real property located in the unincorporated area of the
county shall incorporate the disclosure statement. The disclosure statement
shall be acknowledged by signature of the lessee.
(1966 Code, § 2A-5) (Ord. 624, § 2(part))
§ 19.01.006 DISPUTES; REQUEST FOR MEDIATION.
   (A)   Should any controversy arise concerning the use and enjoyment of
property because of agricultural operations, the parties to the dispute may, as
an attempt to avoid litigation, ask a committee of county officials to mediate
the dispute and propose a resolution consistent with federal, state and county
law.
   (B)   The request shall be made by written application to the county’s
Agricultural Commissioner signed by the parties to the dispute.
(1966 Code, § 2A-6) (Ord. 624, § 2(part))
§ 19.01.007 DISPUTES; MEDIATION COMMITTEE.
   Upon the filing of a request for mediation, the parties shall be given the
list of five county officials. These officials are the county’s Agricultural
Commissioner, the Director of the Cooperative Extension, the County Counsel,
the Planning Director and the Public Works Director. Each side shall eliminate
one official, leaving three officials to form the Mediation Committee.
(1966 Code, § 2A-7) (Ord. 624, § 2(part))
§ 19.01.008 DISPUTES; MEDIATION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The parties will present the pertinent facts involving the dispute and
will agree to exchange any relevant information. The Committee may investigate
the dispute.
   (B)   A meeting of the committee shall occur within 30 days of the filing of
the written request for mediation. At the meeting, any information upon which a
reasonable person would rely in conducting serious affairs may be presented by
the parties and considered by the Committee.
   (C)   Following the meeting, the committee shall prepare a written
resolution to present to the parties. The parties may adopt the proposed
resolution by agreement.
   (D)   There shall be no further administrative process required under this
article for the parties, who may resort to the normal legal process if an
acceptable agreement is not reached.
(1966 Code, § 2A-8) (Ord. 624, § 2(part))
§ 19.01.009 DISPUTES; ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURES.
   The Board may specify a nominal fee to cover the costs of mediator by
ordinance from time to time. Any parties submitting a request for mediation
shall hold the county harmless from any liability arising out of the mediation
or any agreement therefrom.
(1966 Code, § 2A-9) (Ord. 624, § 2(part))
ARTICLE II. AGRICULTURAL PRESERVES
§ 19.01.020 PURPOSE.
   (A)   Intent. The California Land Conservation Act of 1965 (Cal. Gov’t Code
§§ 51200 et seq.; the “Act”) authorized counties to establish agricultural
preserves. The purposes of the Act are to maintain the agricultural economy of
the state and to prevent premature and unnecessary conversion of land from
agricultural uses. The Board of Supervisors of the county finds it to be in the
public interest to assist in the maintenance of the state’s agricultural
economy and to avoid the conversion of land from agricultural uses by
establishing agricultural preserves by entering into contracts with landowners
(LCA contracts) as authorized by the Act. The Act authorizes counties to
establish the procedures for initiating, filing and processing requests for
establishment of agricultural preserves. The Board intends to implement the act
by adopting this article.
   (B)   Definition of an “agricultural preserve”.
      AGRICULTURAL PRESERVE. An area devoted either to agricultural use or as
specified herein, a use compatible to agriculture. Once an agricultural
preserve is created, its value is assessed as provided in the Act.
   (C)   Board approval required. No person shall establish a new agricultural
preserve, nor alter the physical boundaries of an existing agricultural
preserve, nor cancel an existing LCA contract without the approval of the Board
pursuant to this article. No person shall perform any activity on an
agricultural preserve which is incompatible with the uses authorized by this
article.
(1966 Code, § 18A-1) (Ord. 582, § 2(part))
§ 19.01.021 CREATING, ALTERING OR TERMINATING.
   (A)   New preserves.
      (1)   Contiguous parcels in common ownership. An agricultural preserve
shall be created only from one parcel, or portion thereof; or from two or more
contiguous parcels, or portions thereof, in a common ownership. For purposes of
this section, preserves separated by public roads or other public works shall
be deemed to be “contiguous”.
      (2)   Merger. When an owner of one agricultural preserve acquires any
contiguous agricultural preserves the preserves shall merge into one
agricultural preserve and the owner shall execute a new contract which
incorporates the boundaries of all merged agricultural preserves. There shall
be no merger if any of the contiguous agricultural preserves are in non-renewal
status.
      (3)   Preserves; requirements. New agricultural preserves must meet the
minimum acreage and minimum income generation requirements specified in
division (D)(1) of this section. No new agricultural preserve shall be
established unless the Board finds all of the requirements in division (D)(1)
of this section are met.
      (4)   Planned developments. No agricultural preserve shall be created
from a parcel which is part of a planned unit development. Nor can a planned
unit development be created on any agricultural preserve.
   (B)   Alterations of existing agricultural preserves.
      (1)   Enlargements. The minimum acreage and income generation
requirements shall not apply to enlargement of existing agricultural preserves.
The sole criterion for consideration of the enlargement of an existing
agricultural preserve is whether the proposed addition is capable of some
agricultural use. However, no agricultural preserve shall be enlarged unless
the parcel, or portion thereof, sought to be included is contiguous to the
existing agricultural preserve and is owned by the same owner who owns the
existing agricultural preserve. An agricultural preserve shall not be enlarged
if a notice of non- renewal of the land conservation contract relating thereto
has been given either by the owner of the agricultural preserve or by the
county prior to the making of an application for enlargement.
      (2)   Divisions.
         (a)   Minimum standards. The Board shall approve the division of an
existing agricultural preserve only if it finds that the newly created
agricultural preserves will each meet the minimum acreage and income generation
requirements.
         (b)   Multiple ownership, non- contiguous parcels. No new agricultural
preserves may be created unless the proposed preserves are non-contiguous
parcels in common ownership, or contiguous parcels in different ownership or, a
combination of both.
         (c)   Common ownership of contiguous agricultural preserves. When an
existing preserve is to be divided and the proposed owner of a portion thereof
is the owner of a contiguous agricultural preserve, both the parcel resulting
from a division and the existing preserve shall be placed in one preserve;
provided that a notice of non-renewal has not been given with respect to either
preserve. The division shall not be effective until a new LCA contract
incorporating all contiguous preserves is executed.
         (d)   Dividing an agricultural preserve which is in a non-renewal
status. An agricultural preserve which is in a non-renewal status, may be
divided, at the discretion of the Board of Supervisors, providing all
provisions of this article are met.
         (e)   Completion of division. No approval of a division shall be
deemed final until such time as separate LCA contracts are executed with
respect to each new agricultural preserve created by the proposed division.
      (3)   Adjustment to lot lines.
         (a)   Lot line adjustments between agricultural preserves. The owners
of contiguous preserves may apply to adjust the lot lines between the two
preserves. The proposed preserves must meet the minimum acreage and income
production requirements specified in division (D)(1) of this section.
         (b)   Adjustment of the boundary between an agricultural preserve and
a non-preserve. A lot line adjustment between an agricultural preserve and a
non-preserve shall be treated as an enlargement or a division of the
agricultural preserve depending on whether the size of the agricultural
preserve is sought to be increased or decreased.
   (C)   Non-renewals and cancellations. An agricultural preserve may be
terminated by non- renewal of the LCA contract or by cancellation of the LCA
contract. A notice of non-renewal may be given by either the county or the
owner of the agricultural preserve. The procedures specified in the act govern
non-renewals and cancellations.
   (D)   Preserves; requirements.
      (1)   General. Agricultural preserves must meet both of the following
minimum acreage and minimum income generation requirements.
         (a)   Minimum required acreage. A potential or existing agricultural
preserve must consist of one of the following categories of minimum acreage.
            1.   Ten acres of orchards, vineyards or irrigated vegetable and
field crops;
            2.   Forty acres of irrigated pasture or dry-land farmed land;
            3.   One hundred sixty acres of grazing land; or
            4.   A combination of actual acreage in any of the above
categories; provided that the sum of the percentages in any of the above
categories equals or exceeds 100%. The percentage of acreage in each category
is calculated by dividing the actual acreage in each category by the minimum
acreage required in that category. For example, a proposed preserve with five
acres orchard, ten acres irrigated pasture and 40 acres grazing would not
qualify to become a preserve under divisions (D)(1)(a)1., 2. or 3. above. The
property would in the example, however, satisfy the minimum acreage requirement
under this division by the following computation:
 
5 actual acres of orchard             50%
10 minimum required acres for orchard
10 actual acres of irrigated pasture  25%
40 minimum required acres
40 actual acres of grazing land       25%
160 minimum required acres
50% + 25% + 25% = 100%
 
         (b)   Minimum income generation. A new or existing agricultural
preserve shall produce a minimum of $3,500 annual gross income from the sale of
agricultural commodities. An agricultural preserve shall produce this minimum
income amount for three out of every immediately preceding five consecutive
year period, absent an act of God which prevents the achievement of this
standard. An example of an act of God is an extended drought which prevents the
achievement of the minimum income generation requirement. Prior to approving a
new agricultural preserve, the Board shall find that the proposed agricultural
preserve meets or will meet the minimum income generation standard.
      (2)   New planting. New plantings of trees, vines or other perennial
agricultural crops qualify for the minimum requirement if the potential
production is estimated to equal or exceed the minimum income and the plantings
satisfy the minimum acreage requirements.
      (3)   Preserves of less than 100 acres. The requirements of division (D)
(1) of this section provide for the creation of agricultural preserves of less
than 100 acres under prescribed acreage and income generation requirements. The
Board finds that the creation of preserves of less than 100 acres under the
conditions prescribed in division (D)(1) of this section is necessary due to
existing and desired agricultural practices in the county. The Board further
finds that the establishment of agricultural preserves of less than 100 acres
is consistent with the General Plan of the county.
      (4)   Road improvements. In the event a proposed new agricultural
preserve will have less than the minimum acreage required, the agricultural
preserve shall still qualify if this division is applicable. Acreage of up to
one acre of contiguous county or state road can be used by an applicant to
satisfy the minimum acreage requirement, if all of the following requirements
are met:
         (a)   The acreage was transferred in fee simple absolute to the county
or to the state;
         (b)   The county or the state still holds title to the property;
         (c)   The property is contiguous to the proposed agricultural
preserve;
         (d)   The property is public thoroughfare; and
         (e)   The proposed agricultural preserve meets or exceeds the minimum
income production requirements.
      (5)   Failure to continue to meet minimum acreage and income generation
requirement.
         (a)   Failure to meet the requirements. An owner of an agricultural
preserve shall non-renew the LCA contract if the agricultural preserve fails to
meet or exceed the minimum acreage or income generation requirements. The
notice of non-renewal shall be given before the owner of an agricultural
preserve takes any action to reduce acreage. The failure to maintain the
minimum acreage or income generation requirements without giving a notice of
non-renewal constitutes a violation of this article. The failure to meet these
requirements also constitutes a basis for nonrenewal of the LCA contract by the
county.
         (b)   Submission of supporting information. Annually, by November 30,
each year the owner of an agricultural preserve shall provide to the Assessor
supporting documentation to establish that the income production and acreage
requirements have been met during the preceding year.
(1966 Code, § 18A-2) (Ord. 582, § 2(part); Ord. 672, § 1)
§ 19.01.022 LAND CONSERVATION ACT CONTRACTS.
   (A)   Form, content and purpose of contracts. The Board shall, by
resolution, approve the form and content of the Land Conservation Act contract
(LCA contract). The county and all owners of a potential agriculture preserve
shall enter into a contract as a prerequisite to the establishment of an
agricultural preserve. The purpose of the contract shall be to govern the
rights and responsibilities of the parties, with the ultimate goal of
preserving agricultural land in the county. The LCA contract shall qualify as
an enforceable restriction as specified in Cal. Revenue and Taxation Code §
422.
   (B)   Duration. The initial term of each contract shall be ten years. Each
contract shall provide that on the anniversary date of the contract, a year
shall be automatically added to the initial term unless a notice of non-renewal
is given.
   (C)   Signature of the Chairperson of the Board. At the time of establishing
agricultural preserves, or thereafter, the Board, by resolution, may authorize
the Chairperson of the Board to sign the land use contract with the owners.
   (D)   Applicability of state law. All operative provisions of the Act
relevant to the nature of LCA contracts shall apply.
(1966 Code, § 18A-3) (Ord. 582, § 2(part))
§ 19.01.023 COMPATIBLE USES.
   (A)   General principles. The primary purposes of the creation of
agricultural preserve is to foster agriculture and to preserve agricultural
land. The determination of compatible use shall be made in light of these
principles. Agricultural use is any use of land for the purpose of producing an
agricultural commodity for commercial purposes. Agricultural commodities are
any and all plant and animal products produced for commercial purposes.
   (B)   Categories o£ compatible uses. The following uses are deemed
compatible. The following compatible uses shall not be used in calculating the
minimum acreage requirements of an agricultural preserve.
      (1)   The use and conservation of natural resources, which include:
         (a)   The mining and processing of minerals, petroleum products, rock,
sand, gravel and clay. Processing is compatible only if it involves only the
use of on-site required materials, except for water. Processing includes,
without limitation, crushing, washing and screening;
         (b)   Forestry and production of wood products;
         (c)   Dams, reservoirs, water facilities;
         (d)   Fire prevention facilities; and
         (e)   Flood control works.
      (2)   Outdoor recreation only if the recreation is incidental, and not
detrimental to the agricultural use. Recreational use is the use of land by the
public, with or without charge, for any of the following: walking, hiking,
picnicking, camping, swimming, boating, fishing, hunting, parks or other
outdoor games or sports for which facilities are provided for public
participation;
      (3)   Signs appurtenant to any authorized use;
      (4)   Signs of property for sale;
      (5)   Communication facilities or public utility facilities;
      (6)   Home occupations;
      (7)   Event centers;
      (8)   Wineries;
      (9)   Small solar projects for the operation of a farm or ranch;
      (10)   Vegetable processing plants;
      (11)   Meat processing plants;
      (12)   Airplane runway strips for landowner's non-commercial use;
      (13)   Any use which was approved by the Board and which existed at the
time is included in a preserve;
      (14)   Any use required to be permitted by the Act; and
      (15)   Any other similar compatible use as determined by the Board upon a
finding that the proposed use is incidental and not detrimental to agricultural
use.
   (C)   Structures. No structures shall be constructed or placed upon land in
an agricultural preserve except those structures related directly to an
agricultural or compatible use. One dwelling unit shall be permitted if no
dwelling unit exists. Additional dwellings units shall be limited to those
necessary for the operation of the agricultural preserve. Any structures
existing in an agricultural preserve before the operative date of the ordinance
codified in this article, including dwelling units, which structures are
inconsistent with the current requirements of this article shall be deemed
legal non-conforming structures. A legal non-conforming structure shall be
allowed in an agricultural preserve, but it may not be enlarged, nor may its
use be altered, without prior Board approval. With prior Board approval, a
legal non-conforming structure may be reconstructed or may be relocated within
the agricultural preserve. The Board’s approval shall be conditioned upon a
timely destruction of the original non-conforming structure. The Board shall
condition any approval to ensure that the agricultural production of the
agricultural preserve is not substantially impaired or reduced. The Board shall
include as part of such conditions a condition that the owner of the
agricultural preserve maintain the same amount of area of agricultural
production after the reconstruction or relocation. In no event shall a
relocated or reconstructed structure exceed the square footage of the footprint
of the previously existing structure, unless the Board determines the
agricultural production of the agricultural preserve will not be substantially
impaired or reduced. For the purposes of this division, FOOTPRINT shall mean
the exact outer perimeter of the previously existing structure, determined by
computing the area within the surrounding exterior walls of the legal non-
conforming structure, including the walls themselves.
   (D)   “Incidental” defined. For purposes of this article, the term
INCIDENTAL means secondary in terms of acreage.
   (E)   Board review. No agriculture preserve shall be created, enlarged,
divided or adjusted until the proposed use is determined by the Board to be a
compatible use. No category of use of an agricultural preserve shall change
until the Board determines that the proposed use is compatible. The Board shall
impose any reasonable conditions upon a use to insure the use’s compatibility
as specified in this section.
   (F)   Compatible uses.
      (1)   Uses approved as compatible on agricultural preserves shall be
consistent with all of the following principles of compatibility:
         (a)   The use will not significantly compromise the long-term
productive agricultural capability of the subject agricultural preserve or on
other surrounding agricultural preserves.
         (b)   The use will not significantly displace or impair current or
reasonably foreseeable agricultural operations on the subject agricultural
preserve or on other surrounding agricultural preserves. Uses that
significantly displace agricultural operations on a portion of the subject
agricultural preserve may be deemed compatible if they relate directly to the
production of commercial agricultural products on the remaining portion of the
agricultural preserve or on neighboring lands, including activities such as
harvesting, processing or shipping.
         (c)   The use will not result in the significant removal of adjacent
agricultural preserves from agricultural or open-space use.
      (2)   In evaluating compatibility, the Board shall consider the impacts
on non-contracted lands near the agricultural preserve.
   (G)   Non-conformance with principles of compatibility. A use that does not
conform to the principles of compatibility set forth in division (I) below may
nevertheless be approved by the Board only if the use is proposed to be located
on non-prime lands and if the requirements of division (H) below are satisfied.
   (H)   Criteria for non-prime land.
      (1)   In applying the criteria pursuant to division (F) above, the Board
may approve a use on non-prime land which, because of onsite or offsite
impacts, would not be in compliance with divisions (F)(1) and (2) above,
provided the compatible use application is approved conditionally with findings
based on substantial evidence in the record, demonstrating the following:
         (a)   Conditions have been required for, or incorporated into the use
that mitigate or avoid those onsite and offsite impacts so as to make the use
consistent with the principles set forth in divisions (F)(1) and (2) above to
the greatest extent possible while maintaining the purpose of the use;
         (b)   The productive capability of the subject land has been
considered as well as the extent to which the use may displace or impair
agricultural operations;
         (c)   The use is consistent with the purposes of this article to
preserve agricultural and open-space land or supports the continuation of
agricultural uses, as defined in this article and in Cal. Gov’t Code § 51205,
or the use or conservation of natural resources, on the subject agricultural
preserve or on other surrounding agricultural preserves. The use of mineral
resources shall comply with division (I) below; and
         (d)   The use does not include a residential subdivision.
      (2)   For the purposes of this division, NON- PRIME LAND means land not
defined as “prime agricultural land”, pursuant to Cal. Gov’t Code § 51201(c),
or as land not classified as “agricultural land”, pursuant to Cal. Public
Resources Code § 21060.1(a).
   (I)   Compatible uses; mineral extraction.
      (1)   Mineral extraction that is unable to meet the principles of
division (H) above may nevertheless be approved as compatible use if the Board
is able to determine based upon substantial evidence in the record that:
         (a)   The underlying contractual commitment to preserve prime land as
defined in Cal. Gov’t Code § 51201(c); and/or
         (b)   The underlying contractual commitment to preserve non-prime land
for open-space use as defined in Cal. Gov’t Code § 51201(c), will not be
significantly impaired.
      (2)   Conditions imposed on mineral extraction as a compatible use of an
agricultural preserve shall include compliance with the reclamation standards
adopted by the Mining and Geology Board pursuant to Cal. Public Resources Code
§ 2773, including the applicable performance standards for prime agricultural
land and other agricultural land. No exception to these standards shall be
permitted.
   (J)   Definition of “agricultural preserve”. For purposes of this section,
an AGRICULTURAL PRESERVE means all land under a single contract for which an
applicant seeks a compatible use permit.
(1966 Code, § 18A-4) (Ord. 582, § 2(part); Ord. 607, § 1, 1991; Ord. 665, § 1;
Ord. 979, § 1, 2019)
§ 19.01.024 THE AGRICULTURAL PRESERVE ADVISORY COMMITTEE.
   (A)   Creation, composition.
      (1)   There shall be an advisory committee known as the Agricultural
Preserve Advisory Committee. The committee formerly known as the LCA Advisory
Committee, shall constitute the Agricultural Preserve Advisory Committee. The
Agricultural Preserve Advisory Committee shall consist of seven members, all of
whom shall be engaged in agriculture as a primary occupation, retired
therefrom, or be knowledgeable about agriculture. Five of the seven members
shall be “district members”. Two of the seven members shall be at-large
members.
      (2)   Each supervisor for the county shall appoint one resident of that
supervisor’s district to serve as a district member. The district member shall
serve at the pleasure of the appointing supervisor. The entire Board shall
appoint the two at-large members, who are residents of the county and who shall
serve at the pleasure of the Board.
      (3)   All appointments shall be reviewed annually in January. A member of
the Agricultural Preserve Advisory Committee shall continue to serve until
replaced by a qualified successor.
   (B)   Responsibilities. The Agricultural Preserve Advisory Committee has the
following responsibilities:
      (1)   The Agricultural Preserve Advisory Committee shall review any
application to establish new agricultural preserves or any application to alter
existing agricultural preserves. Upon conducting a review of an application,
the Committee shall forward its recommendation to the Board for review as more
particularly described in §
19.01.023.
      (2)   Pursuant to §
19.01.025, the Agricultural Preserve Advisory Committee shall review any
request for a determination of compatible use and make recommendation to the
Board.
      (3)   At the request of the Board, the Agricultural Preserve Advisory
Committee shall advise the Board on the administration of agricultural
preserves in the county and on any matters relating to contracts entered into
pursuant to this article.
      (4)   Notwithstanding this division, the Chairperson of the Agricultural
Preserve Advisory Committee, with the advice of the assessor, shall review any
compatible use request to place a temporary dwelling unit on an existing
agricultural preserve and make recommendations to the Board. Notwithstanding §
19.01.025 of this article, an application for determination of compatible use
of the placement of a temporary dwelling unit may be made at any time.
   (C)   Meeting: administration. The Agricultural Preserve Advisory Committee
shall meet regularly twice a year. The Committee may also hold special meetings
whenever necessary. The Brown Act, Cal. Gov’t Code §§ 54950 et seq., shall
apply to the meetings of the Agricultural Preserve Advisory Committee. The
Assessor shall administer this article and provide administrative functions for
the Committee. The Director of the University of California Extension shall be
the ex-officio clerk of the Agricultural Preserve Advisory Committee.
(1966 Code, § 18A-5) (Ord. 582, § 2(part); Ord. 618, § 1; Ord. 730, § 1)
§ 19.01.025 GENERAL PROCEDURES FOR THE ESTABLISHMENT OF NEW AGRICULTURAL
PRESERVES, FOR ALTERING EXISTING AGRICULTURAL PRESERVES OR FOR DETERMINING
COMPATIBLE USES.
   (A)   Procedures applicable to all applications. The procedures specified in
this section shall apply to all applications whether the applicant seeks to
establish a new agricultural preserve, alter existing agricultural preserves or
obtain a determination of compatible uses. The applications include, but are
not limited to, applications to establish a new agricultural preserve, to
enlarge an existing agricultural preserve, to divide an existing agricultural
preserve, to adjust the lot line of agricultural preserves, to cancel an
agricultural preserve, or to obtain a determination of compatible use of an
agricultural preserve.
   (B)   Application period. All applications shall be filed during either of
two applications periods:
      (1)   Application period. The application periods are:
         (a)   March 1, through and including March 31; and
         (b)   September 1, through and including September 30.
      (2)   Mandatory time periods. No applications shall be accepted unless
filed with the county’s Assessor during either of the periods of time specified
in this section. There shall be no waiver of this filing period requirement.
All applications shall be made upon forms furnished by the County Assessor.
   (C)   Application fee. Each application shall be accompanied by a non-
refundable fee in an amount to be determined by resolution of the Board of
Supervisors.
   (D)   Contents of application. The application shall identify the owner,
locate the property, indicate the size of the property, state any current or
proposed uses of the property and provide any information relevant to the
application.
   (E)   Review of application by Agricultural Preserve Advisory Committee.
      (1)   Upon the filing of an application, the County Assessor shall check
and verify for accuracy the application, and forward the application to the
Agricultural Preserve Advisory Committee for review and recommendation.
      (2)   Upon the conclusion of the review by the Agricultural Preserve
Advisory Committee, the County Assessor shall forward the application along
with the Committee’s determination to the County Clerk who shall give notice in
the manner required by the Act.
   (F)   Consideration of application by the Board.
      (1)   Public hearing. The Board shall, by written resolution, authorize
the establishment of an agricultural preserve, alteration of an agricultural
preserve or make a determination of compatible uses of an agricultural
preserve, only after conducting a public hearing; provided, however, that all
of the requirements of this article and the Act are satisfied.
      (2)   Completed documents. Prior to the hearing upon each application,
the applicant shall file with the Assessor all required documents, fully
executed by the applicant. All new contracts, enlargements of contracts,
divisions of existing contracts or lot line adjustments must include a complete
legal description or survey adequate to identify the land and acreage in each
proposed preserve. Assessor’s parcel numbers may be substituted for a legal
description or survey if they exactly correspond to the boundaries of the
proposed preserve.
   (G)   Establishment of agricultural preserves. A new agricultural preserve
is established only when all requirements of this article and the act are
satisfied, when all conditions of approval are fulfilled, and when a land
conservation contract is executed by the owner of the potential agricultural
preserve and by the county.
   (H)   Time for completion. An applicant shall complete the creation of a new
preserve, the enlargement or division of an existing agricultural preserve or
the adjustment of a lot line of an agricultural preserve within two years from
the date the Board grants its approval. An agricultural preserve shall not be
created until all of the requirements of this article, including, but not
limited to, the execution of contracts and the transfer of title, are met, and
until all necessary discretionary government approvals are obtained. The
failure of an applicant to complete the process within the specified time
period for whatever reason, shall void an application and an approval. There
shall be no extension of time for this requirement for any reason. The
application shall not be subsequently considered or reconsidered unless a new
application, accompanied by a new application fee is filed within the
application period designated in division (B) of this section.
(1966 Code, § 18A-6) (Ord. 582, § 2(part); Ord. 690, § 1)
§ 19.01.026 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Pending applications.
      (1)   Pending matters; Planning Commission action; stayed. Any matter
before the Planning Commission involving a determination under this article or
the act shall be deemed incomplete and shall be held until a final
determination of the question arising under this article or under the act.
      (2)   Exceptions. An application to subdivide land under an LCA contract
which will terminate in one year or less may be deemed complete and may be
considered by the Planning Commission. However, if the application is approved,
no structures shall be built nor shall the use of the property be altered until
the LCA contract terminates, nor can a final map be filed.
   (B)   Board administration regulations. The Board shall have authority to
enact uniform rules by resolution for the administration of the preserves.
   (C)   Terminology. Unless the context otherwise requires language indicating
singular includes the plural, and the language specifying the masculine
includes the feminine.
   (D)   Payment of funds. No payment of public funds will be made as a part of
consideration for the entering into of any agreement authorized by the act.
   (E)   Legal non-conforming agricultural preserves. Unless the agricultural
preserve is in non- renewal status, all agricultural preserves and compatible
uses existing at the operative date of the ordinance codified in this article,
shall remain an appropriate agricultural preserve, notwithstanding the failure
to meet minimum requirements. However, all agricultural preserves preexisting
this article shall continue in commercial production of agricultural
commodities. The owner of a legal non-conforming agricultural preserve shall
comply with this article if the owner divides or otherwise alters the existing
agricultural preserve.
(1966 Code, § 18A-7) (Ord. 582, § 2(part))
§ 19.01.027 ENFORCEMENT.
   The Board enacts the ordinance codified in this article pursuant to its
police power for the purpose of preserving the health, safety and public
welfare of the residents of the county. The Board finds that agriculture is
extremely important to the county’s economy and that insuring the continued
agricultural commodities is essential to the health and well being of the
county residents. The Board determines that the enforcement of this article is
essential and therefore the Board adopts all the provisions of the Code
Enforcement Ordinance (Ord. 567) as though the provisions were specified in
this article. Violation of this article shall be punished only by resort to
civil remedies.
(1966 Code, § 18A-8) (Ord. 582, § 2(part))
CHAPTER 19.03: AIRPORT ZONING
Section
   
19.03.001   Definitions
   
19.03.002   Purpose of chapter
   
19.03.003   Establishment of zones
   
19.03.004   Zoning map adopted; where filed
   
19.03.005   Planning Commission to administer and enforce chapter
   
19.03.006   Height limitations
   
19.03.007   Certain hazardous uses prohibited
   
19.03.008   Non-conforming uses
   
19.03.009   Permits
   
19.03.010   Variances
   
19.03.011   Enforcement
   
19.03.012   Effect of conflicting provisions
Cross-reference:
   Airport lighting, see §
19.31.010 of this code
   Planning Commission, see §§
3.05.050 and
3.05.051 of this code
   Zoning generally, see Title 25 of this code
Statutory reference:
   Authority of county relative to airports generally, see Cal. Gov’t Code §§
26020 to 26028
   Authority of county to adopt and enforce airport
    zoning regulations, see Cal. Gov’t Code § 50485.3
   Airport approaches zoning law generally, see Cal. Gov’t Code §§ 50485 to
50485.14
§ 19.03.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following words and phrases shall have
the meanings respectively ascribed to them by this section.
   AIRPORT. The Hollister Municipal Airport.
   AIRPORT HAZARD. Any structure or tree or use of land which obstructs the
airspace required for the flight of aircraft in landing or taking-off at the
airport or is otherwise hazardous to the landing or taking-off of aircraft.
   CITY or COUNTY. Any city, county or city and county.
   LANDING AREA. The area of the airport used for the landing, taking-off or
taxiing of aircraft.
   NON-CONFORMING USE. Any structure, tree or use of land which does not
conform to a regulation prescribed in this chapter as of the effective date of
the regulation.
   STRUCTURE. Any object constructed or installed by man, including but not
limited to buildings, towers, smokestacks and overhead lines.
   TREE. Any object of natural growth.
(1966 Code, § 3-1) (Ord. 231, § 3)
§ 19.03.002 PURPOSE OF CHAPTER.
   The purpose of this chapter is to promote the health, safety and general
welfare of the inhabitants of the county by preventing the creation or
establishment of airport hazards, thereby protecting the lives and property of
the users of the Hollister Municipal Airport and of the occupants of the land
in its vicinity and preventing destruction and impairment of the utility of the
airport and the public investment therein.
(1966 Code, § 3-2) (Ord. 231, § 1)
§ 19.03.003 ESTABLISHMENT OF ZONES.
   In order to carry out the purposes of this chapter all of the land within
the boundaries of the Hollister Municipal Airport and within two miles of the
landing area of the airport is hereby divided into inner turning zones, outer
turning zones, transition zones and runway approach zones.
(1966 Code, § 3-3) (Ord. 231, § 4)
§ 19.03.004 ZONING MAP ADOPTED; WHERE FILED.
   (A)   The boundaries of the zones provided for in §
19.03.003 shall be as set forth in the Hollister Municipal Airport Zoning Map,
approved by the California Aeronautics Commission on November 23, 1962. A copy
of the map shall be on file in the office of the County Clerk. The map shall be
available for examination at all times that the office is open for business.
   (B)   The Hollister Municipal Airport Zoning Map is the official map for the
zoning purposes of this chapter and the same is hereby made a part of this
chapter, subject to amendments thereof made pursuant to law from time to time.
The amendments shall be entered on the official map and the same shall be
maintained up to date at all times.
(1966 Code, § 3-4) (Ord. 231, §§ 4, 5)
§ 19.03.005 PLANNING COMMISSION TO ADMINISTER AND ENFORCE CHAPTER.
   The county’s Planning Commission is hereby designated the administrator
charged with the duty of administering and enforcing the regulations of this
chapter. The duties of the Planning Commission shall include that of reviewing
and deciding all applications for permits and variances under this chapter.
(1966 Code, § 3-5) (Ord. 231, § 8)
§ 19.03.006 HEIGHT LIMITATIONS.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, no structure shall be
erected, altered or maintained in any airport approach zone, transition zone or
turning zone to a height in excess of the height limit established in this
section for each zone. For the purpose of determining these height limits, the
U.S. Coast and Geodetic survey has established the official elevation reference
to be 234 feet and all height limits will begin at the elevation.
   (B)   For the purpose of this regulation, the following height limits are
hereby established for each of the zones in question:
      (1)   Inner turning zone: 150 feet.
      (2)   Outer turning zone: 150 feet at the inner perimeter and increasing
in height at the ratio of 20 to one to the outer perimeter.
      (3)   Runway approach zones, northwest-southeast (12-30), as designated
on the Hollister Municipal Zoning Map, shall not exceed a height greater than
permitted by a 50 to one glideslope and in no event to exceed 150 feet.
      (4)   Runway approach zones, northeast-southwest (5-23), as designated on
the Hollister Municipal Airport Zoning Map shall not exceed a height greater
than permitted by a 20 to one glideslope and in no event to exceed 150 feet.
      (5)   Transition zones: the height to be determined within the boundaries
of the transition zone by reference to the Hollister Municipal Airport Zoning
Map at a ratio of seven to one commencing at the boundary of the landing area.
(1966 Code, § 3-6) (Ord. 231, § 5)
§ 19.03.007 CERTAIN HAZARDOUS USES PROHIBITED.
   No use may be made of land within any airport approach zone, airport turning
zone or airport transition zone in such a manner as to create electrical
interference with radio communication between the airport and aircraft, making
it difficult for pilots to distinguish between airport lights and other lights,
resulting in glare in the eyes of the pilots using the airport, impairing
visibility in the vicinity of the airport or otherwise endangering the landing,
taking-off or maneuvering of aircraft.
(1966 Code, § 3-7) (Ord. 231, § 6)
§ 19.03.008 NON-CONFORMING USES.
   The regulations prescribed in this chapter shall not be construed to require
the removal, lowering or other change or alteration of any structure or tree
not conforming to such regulations as of December 17, 1962, or otherwise
interfere with the continuance of any non-conforming use. Nothing in this
chapter shall require any change in the construction, alteration or intended
use of any structure, the construction or alteration of which was begun prior
to December 17, 1962, and is diligently prosecuted and completed within a
reasonable time thereof.
(1966 Code, § 3-8) (Ord. 231, § 7)
§ 19.03.009 PERMITS.
   Before any non-conforming structure or tree may be replaced, substantially
altered or repaired, rebuilt, allowed to grow higher or replanted a permit
shall be secured from the Planning Commission. No permit shall be granted that
would allow the establishment or creation of an airport hazard or permit a non-
conforming structure or tree or non-conforming use to be made or become higher
or become a greater hazard to air navigation than it was on December 17, 1962,
or than it is when the application for a permit is made. Except as provided in
this chapter, all applications for permits shall be granted. No permit shall be
required to make maintenance repairs to or to replace parts of existing
structures which do not enlarge or increase the height of the existing
structure.
(1966 Code, § 3-9) (Ord. 231, § 9)
§ 19.03.010 VARIANCES.
   Any person desiring to erect any structure, or increase the height of any
structure, or permit the growth of any tree, or otherwise use his or her
property in violation of airport zoning regulations adopted under this chapter,
may apply to the Planning Commission for a variance from the zoning regulations
in question. The variances shall be allowed where a literal application or
enforcement of the regulations would result in practical difficulty or
unnecessary hardship and the relief granted would not be contrary to the public
interest but do substantial justice and be in accordance with the spirit of the
regulations and this chapter; provided, that any variance may be allowed
subject to any reasonable conditions that the Planning Commission may deem
necessary to effectuate the purpose of the chapter.
(1966 Code, § 3-10) (Ord. 231, § 10)
§ 19.03.011 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Violation of chapter; public nuisance. In the event any person shall
erect, construct, move, alter or attempt to erect any structure or allow any
tree to exceed a height in violation of the provisions of this chapter, the
same is a public nuisance, and it shall be abated, eliminated and enjoined as
provided in
Chapter 1.03 of this code.
   (B)   Violation of chapter; criminal. Any violation of this chapter is
unlawful and a public nuisance and shall be abated, eliminated and enjoined as
provided in
Chapter 1.03 of this code.
   (C)   Remedies cumulative. Except as otherwise provided by law, the remedies
provided in this chapter are cumulative and not exclusive. Nothing in this
chapter is intended, or shall be deemed or construed, to limit or impair the
ability of the county, or any of its officers, agents or employees, to take any
administrative or judicial action, otherwise authorized by law, to abate any
public nuisance.
Chapter 1.03 of this code is hereby incorporated by reference as though its
provisions were fully set forth herein.
(1966 Code, § 3-11) (Ord. 231, § 11; Ord. 570, § 6)
§ 19.03.012 EFFECT OF CONFLICTING PROVISIONS.
   Where this chapter imposes a greater or more stringent restriction upon the
use of land than is imposed or required by any other provision of this code or
of any other ordinance or regulation, the provisions of this chapter shall
govern.
(1966 Code, § 3-12) (Ord. 231, § 13)
CHAPTER 19.05: ARCHAEOLOGICAL SITE REVIEW
Section
   
19.05.001   Declaration of purpose
   
19.05.002   Definitions
   
19.05.003   Prohibitions
   
19.05.004   Fraudulent transfers
   
19.05.005   Project review and archaeological assessments
   
19.05.006   Project approval
   
19.05.007   Site discovered during excavation or development
   
19.05.008   Issuance of site development approval
   
19.05.009   Issuance of archaeological excavation approval
   
19.05.010   Expiration
   
19.05.011   Appeals
   
19.05.012   Finality of decision
   
19.05.013   Enforcement
§ 19.05.001 DECLARATION OF PURPOSE.
   The intent of this chapter is to protect, preserve and show respect for
Native American, Spanish, Mexican, Euroamerican and other archaeological sites
and resources within the county of San Benito. There exist in the county areas
known and yet to be discovered which contain significant cultural and
archaeological sites which contain unique, irreplaceable, or religious
resources significant to the history of the county and for the cultural
heritage of the citizens of the county and state. This archaeological resource
is fast disappearing as a result of public and private land development. It is
the policy of San Benito County to preserve the county’s historic identity and
integrity (Goal #7 Objective a of Land Use Element 1980). This chapter
establishes regulations for the protection, enhancement, and perpetuation of
archaeological sites in order to promote the public welfare, and to implement
General Plan policy and state law.
(1966 Code, § 5B-1) (Ord. 610, § 1)
§ 19.05.002 DEFINITIONS.
   The following words and phrases, whenever used in this chapter, shall be
construed as defined in this section.
   ARCHAEOLOGICAL EXCAVATION APPROVAL. An approval issued by the County of San
Benito pursuant to this chapter to a qualified professional archaeologist,
authorizing excavation of an archaeological site for scientific purposes or as
a mitigation measure in order to preserve a sample of the remains, artifacts or
other evidence.
   ARCHAEOLOGICAL/CULTURAL RESOURCE. Consistent with CEQA, Appendix K, an
archaeological resource is one which:
      (1)   Is associated with an event or person of:
         (a)   Recognized significance in California or American history; or
         (b)   Recognized scientific importance in prehistory.
      (2)   Can provide information which is both of demonstrable public
interest and useful in addressing scientifically consequential and reasonable
archaeological research questions;
      (3)   Has a special or particular quality such as oldest, best example,
largest or last surviving example of its kind;
      (4)   Is at least 100 years old and possesses substantial stratigraphic
integrity; or
      (5)   Involves important research questions that historical research has
shown can be answered only with archaeological methods.
   ARCHAEOLOGICAL/CULTURAL SITE. Any mound, midden, cave, place of settlement,
burial ground, ceremonial ground, mine, trail, rock art or other feature or
location containing either human remains or artifacts of Native Californians.
Any artifacts left by Spanish, Mexican, Euroamerican and the like settlers.
Whenever the word SITE is used in this chapter, it means an ARCHAEOLOGICAL/
CULTURAL SITE.
   ARCHAEOLOGICAL REPORT. A comprehensive investigation of an archaeological
site prepared by a qualified professional archaeologist pursuant to this
chapter. The purpose of the report is to determine the extent and significance
of the site and to provide recommendations for mitigation measures.
   ARCHAEOLOGICAL SENSITIVE AREAS. Areas of the county designated on maps
prepared by the Planning Department in consultation with professional
archaeologists, where artifacts and/or human remains of Native American peoples
are likely to exist. These maps shall be kept on file in the Planning
Department and shall be available only to county planners and professional
archaeologists.
   ARCHAEOLOGICAL SURVEY. A brief preliminary surface investigation or
reconnaissance performed under the guidance of a qualified professional
archaeologist for the purpose of determining the presence and/or extent of an
archaeological site on a parcel for which a project is proposed.
   ARTIFACT. Material remains which provide significant evidence of the
activities of a prehistoric culture or historic tribe, or Spanish, Mexican,
Euroamerican and the like settlers.
   BURIAL. The placement of human remains in a grave inside or outside a burial
park.
   CULTURAL SIGNIFICANCE. An archaeological site shall be deemed a site of
“cultural significance” if it meets any of the criteria herein.
   DISCRETIONARY PROJECT. A project which requires the exercise of judgment or
deliberation when the public agency or body decides to approve or disapprove a
particular activity, as distinguished from situations where the public agency
or body merely has to determine whether there has been conformity with
applicable statutes, ordinances or regulations.
   GROUND DISTURBANCE. Development activity resulting in the manipulation of
the terrain or of earth materials such as rock or soil including excavation,
grading, placement of structures, trenching for utilities or foundations, but
excluding agricultural activities.
   HUMAN REMAINS. The body, or any part thereof, of a deceased human being in
any stage of decomposition.
   INTERMENT. The disposition of human remains by inurnment, entombment or
burial.
   KNOWINGLY. A person who disturbs, excavates or causes to be disturbed or
excavated an archaeological site shall be deemed to have done so “knowingly” if
the person knew, or reasonably should have known, that the area contained
artifacts, remains or other evidence of an archaeological site.
   MOST LIKELY DESCENDANT. A person who is a direct descendant of an identified
Native American band or tribe indigenous to San Benito County. This
determination is made by the state’s Native American Heritage Commission.
   PROPERTY OWNER. The record owner of any site subject to the provisions of
the ordinance codified in this chapter. For purposes of this chapter, PROPERTY
OWNER includes any known occupier of the site in question.
   QUALIFIED ARCHAEOLOGIST. A person who meets or surpasses basic requirements
for education, research, analysis and report writing established as necessary
for certification by the Society of Professional Archaeologists (SOPA).
   RECORDED ARCHAEOLOGICAL SITE. A known archaeological site which has been
officially recorded with a recognized scientific archaeological body, such as
the California Archaeological Inventory in Rohnert Park, California.
(1966 Code, § 5B-2) (Ord. 610, § 2)
§ 19.05.003 PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person knowingly to disturb or cause to be
disturbed or to excavate, or cause to be excavated, any archaeological site in
violation of this chapter.
   (B)   Except as provided in §
19.05.007 of this chapter, it shall be unlawful for any person knowingly to
disturb, or cause to be disturbed or to excavate, or cause to be excavated, any
archaeological site without, or in violation of the terms of a permit issued
pursuant to this chapter.
(1966 Code, § 5B-3) (Ord. 610, § 3)
§ 19.05.004 FRAUDULENT TRANSFERS.
   It is unlawful for any person to place, install, plant or otherwise transfer
to any property any artifacts, remains or other evidence, whether real or
manufactured, of an archaeological site for the purpose of requiring the
property owner to comply with the provisions of this chapter.
(1966 Code, § 5B-4) (Ord. 610, § 4)
§ 19.05.005 PROJECT REVIEW AND ARCHAEOLOGICAL ASSESSMENTS.
   (A)   Archaeological survey.
      (1)   Prior to accepting an application as complete for any discretionary
project which will result in ground disturbance, an archaeological survey shall
be required as well as a search of records of recorded archaeological sites. In
addition, an archaeological survey shall be required for any discretionary
project which will result in ground disturbance within 500 feet of a recorded
archaeological site. The archaeological survey shall be prepared according to
procedures established by the Planning Director.
      (2)   Based on the results of the archaeological survey, the Planning
Director shall determine if a project site contains a site of cultural
significance. If the site is determined to be culturally significant and if
development of that project will result in disturbance of the site, then the
Planning Director shall inform the property owner that an archaeological report
must be prepared.
   (B)   Archaeological report. An archaeological report shall be required
prior to the issuance of any project permits or approvals when a project site
contains a culturally significant site and when development of the project will
result in the disturbance of that site. The report shall be written by a
qualified archaeologist and shall include information as set forth in the
county’s archaeological report guidelines available at the county’s Planning
Department.
(1966 Code, § 5B-5) (Ord. 610, § 5)
§ 19.05.006 PROJECT APPROVAL.
   (A)   Whenever an archaeological site is discovered during the review of a
proposed project, any permit subsequently issued shall contain whatever
conditions the decision-making body shall determine necessary to promote the
purposes of this chapter. Such conditions shall be based on the archaeological
report in consultation with the Native American Heritage Commission.
   (B)   Conditions shall include, but not be limited to, the following:
      (1)   All appropriate preservation or mitigation measures. Such measures
shall include, but not be limited to, the following. The preferred alternative
shall be division (B)(1)(a) below.
         (a)   Preservation of the site through project design or restrictions
on use and/or grading, such as restricting improvement and grading activities
to portions of the property not containing the resource, or covering the site
with earthfill to a depth where the site will not be disturbed by development
as determined by a professional archaeologist; and/or
         (b)   Excavation of the site by a professional archaeologist in order
to preserve a sample of the human remains, artifacts or other evidence. The
excavation may take place only as authorized by an archaeological excavation
permit.
      (2)   A provision that if previously undiscovered human remains are
encountered during the course of excavation or development, the procedures of
this chapter shall be followed.
      (3)   A provision that the applicant pay the full costs of any
preservation or mitigation measures required under divisions (B)(1) and (2)
above.
(1966 Code, § 5B-6) (Ord. 610, § 6)
§ 19.05.007 SITE DISCOVERED DURING EXCAVATION OR DEVELOPMENT.
   (A)   Presence of artifacts and/or human remains. Any property owner who, at
any time in the preparation for or process of excavating or otherwise
disturbing the ground, discovers any human remains of any age, or any
significant artifact or other evidence of an archaeological site, shall:
      (1)   Cease and desist from all further excavations and disturbances
within 200 feet of the discovery or in any nearby area reasonably suspected to
overlie adjacent remains;
      (2)   Arrange for staking completely around the area of discovery by
visible stakes no more than ten feet apart, forming a circle having a radius of
no less than 100 feet from the point of discovery; provided, however, that the
staking need not take place on adjoining property unless the owner of the
adjoining property authorizes the staking. The staking shall not include flags
or other devices which may attract vandals;
      (3)   Notify the Sheriff-Coroner of the discovery if human and/or
questionable remains have been discovered. The Planning Director shall also be
notified; and
      (4)   Subject to the legal process, grant all duly authorized
representatives of the coroner and the Planning Director permission to enter
onto the property and to take all actions consistent with this chapter and
consistent with Cal. Health and Safety Code § 7050.5 and Cal. Gov’t Code
Chapter 10 (commencing with § 27460) of Part 3 of Division 2 of Title 3.
   (B)   Human remains. In the event of discovery or recognition of any human
remains in any location other than a dedicated cemetery, there shall be no
further excavation or disturbance of the site or any nearby area reasonably
suspected to overlie adjacent remains or artifacts.
   (C)   Property inspection. Upon notification of the discovery, the Planning
Director shall arrange for an inspection of the property and shall notify the
coroner and the Native American Heritage Commission.
      (1)   The Planning Director may use the services of a qualified
archaeologist in making inspections and determinations on archaeological sites.
The archaeological services shall be at the expense of the applicant for the
project. The inspection shall take place within two working days of the notice
to the Director of the discovery. The property owner and a representative of
local Native Californian Indian groups designated by the Native American
Heritage Commission as the most likely descendant shall be notified of the time
of the inspection and both may accompany the Director and his or her
representative at all times on the property. The purpose of the inspection
shall be to determine whether the discovery is a site of archaeological/
cultural significance and to make recommendations to the property owner and the
person responsible for the excavation work regarding the treatment of the human
remains and any associated grave goods. The inspection shall be made pursuant
to Cal. Public Resources Code § 5097.98.
      (2)   The Coroner shall determine whether the remains are subject to the
provisions of Cal. Gov’t Code § 27491 or any other related provisions of the
law concerning investigation of the circumstances, manner and cause of any
death, and the recommendations concerning the treatment of disposition of the
human remains in a manner consistent with Cal. Public Resources Code § 5097.98.
The coroner shall make his or her determination within two working days from
the time the person responsible for the excavation, or his or her authorized
representative, notifies the coroner of the discovery or recognition of the
human remains.
   (D)   Resumption of the development.
      (1)   If the aforementioned inspection has not taken place within three
working days of notice of discovery to the Planning Director, ground
disturbance of the property may proceed; except, however, that if human remains
have been discovered, no excavation or development may take place until
specifically authorized by the Coroner.
      (2)   If the Planning Director determines, based on recommendations of
those individuals with whom the Director consults pursuant to this section,
that the discovery is not a site of cultural significance, the Director shall
notify the property owner of the determination, and excavation or the
development may resume. The notice, in either event, may be given orally but
shall be confirmed to the property owner in writing.
   (E)   Culturally significant sites. If the Planning Director determines that
the discovery is a site of cultural significance, the Director shall notify the
property owner that the site is of cultural significance and that an
archaeological report must be prepared and completed within 90 days and no
further excavation or development may take place except as authorized by an
archaeological site development approval. The property owner may appeal the
decision of the Planning Director as specified in §
19.05.011.
   (F)   Recordation of sites. The Director shall ensure that all
archaeological sites shall be recorded with and assigned a reference number by
the California Archaeological Inventory. Copies of archaeological site records
and reports shall be submitted to the California Archaeological Inventory for
inclusion in the inventory.
(1966 Code, § 5B-7) (Ord. 610, § 7)
§ 19.05.008 ISSUANCE OF SITE DEVELOPMENT APPROVAL.
   (A)   When the Planning Director has determined that a culturally
significant site may have been discovered during excavation the Planning
Director shall give notice to the property owner and shall require an
archaeological site development approval prior to resumption of excavation.
   (B)   The archaeological site development approval shall be reviewed and
issued by the Planning Director or his or her designee following an
administrative hearing to occur not later than 14 days following the completion
of the archaeological report. Notice of the hearing shall be given to the
property owner, the Native American Heritage Commission and a representative of
the most likely descendants of the local Native American groups. Any approval
notice shall contain conditions established by the Planning Director, in
consultation with the Native American Heritage Commission, which conditions are
to be based upon the findings of an archaeological report. The conditions shall
promote the purposes of this chapter. In establishing these conditions, the
Director shall balance the need for preserving the site against the need to
avoid unnecessary financial hardship to the property owner and all persons
engaged in construction on the site.
   (C)   In all cases, the archaeological site development approval shall
authorize resumption of excavation within 30 days of the date of the
aforementioned on-site inspection or receipt of the archaeological report. The
date for resumption of ground disturbance may be extended up to 47 additional
days by order of the Planning Commission upon application by an interested
party. Notice of the application and the time for consideration of the
application shall be given to the property owner by the Planning Department. An
application for extension of the date of resumption of ground disturbance must
be made within five days of the issuance of archaeological site development
approval. The hearing shall be held before expiration of the 30-day resumption
period.
(1966 Code, § 5B-8) (Ord. 610, § 8)
§ 19.05.009 ISSUANCE OF ARCHAEOLOGICAL EXCAVATION APPROVAL.
   (A)   Any qualified professional archaeologist who proposes to excavate an
archaeological site shall apply to the Planning Director for an archaeological
excavation approval. Applications for archaeological excavation approvals shall
be in a form approved by the Planning Director.
   (B)   Every application for an archaeological excavation approval shall
contain the following information:
      (1)   The name, address and qualifications of the responsible
archaeologist;
      (2)   A description and map of the exact location of the site to be
excavated;
      (3)   A specific project termination date, not to exceed one year. Any
written report required as a condition of the approval shall be filed with the
Director within one year of issuance of the approval. This report shall be
available for review only on a need to know basis, in order to keep known sites
confidential. If the plan is to be made available to the general public it will
not include the specific location of any archaeological resources. Confidential
reports shall be noted as such on the cover;
      (4)   A statement of the goals of the excavation project, and the methods
and techniques to be employed in the excavation and analysis of the data and a
research design as set forth in county guidelines available at the county’s
Planning Department;
      (5)   Plans to ensure that the artifacts and records will be properly
preserved for scholarly research and public education, and that the Native
American artifacts will ultimately be disposed of in a manner satisfactory to
the Native American Heritage Commission or its designee;
      (6)   A plan for disposing of any Native American human remains that are
discovered on the site in a manner satisfactory to the native American Heritage
Commission or its designee; and
      (7)   A statement of reasons why excavation of the site will be of value
to local Native American groups or to humankind generally.
   (C)   Any archaeological excavation application shall be reviewed by the
Planning Director or his or her designee. The approval shall contain whatever
conditions the Planning Director, after consultation with local Native American
Heritage Commission and/or the local historical society determines to impose in
order to promote the purposes of this chapter. The conditions shall include but
not be limited to an agreement to provide a list of all items removed, the date
of removal and the present location of the items. The list shall be signed by
the permittee. The Planning Department shall forward the list to the California
Archaeological Site Inventory. The archaeological excavation approval may also
include a provision requiring publication of the data and report according to
current professional standards.
   (D)   The Planning Director may issue the approval authorized by this
section on an emergency basis, without requiring the detailed application form,
the consultation process, and the written approval conditions provided for in
divisions (A), (B) and (C) of this section whenever there exists, as to a
specific site, an immediate and clear danger that artifacts, culturally
significant materials or any information that might be derived therefrom, will
be destroyed or lost due to natural or human causes before the normal
archaeological approval process could be completed. All appropriate scientific
methods shall be used during such emergency excavations, and any artifacts or
materials recovered shall be disposed of as provided in division (B) of this
section.
(1966 Code, § 5B-9) (Ord. 610, § 9)
§ 19.05.010 EXPIRATION.
   Unless otherwise specified, approvals issued pursuant to this chapter shall
expire one year from the date of issuance if not exercised.
(1966 Code, § 5B-10) (Ord. 610, § 10)
§ 19.05.011 APPEALS.
   (A)   Appellant; appeals body. Any interested party may appeal any decision
of the Planning Director to the Planning Commission or any decision of the
Planning Commission to the Board of Supervisors. For the purposes of this
section the Planning Commission or the Board of Supervisors when acting as the
body hearing an appeal shall be referred to as the “appeals body”.
   (B)   Time for appeal; application; fee; grounds. Any appeal shall be filed
with the appropriate appeals body not later than five days after the challenged
decision. The appeal shall be made on an application form approved by the
Planning Department, and accompanied by the required fee. The specific grounds
for the appeal shall be stated. Omitted grounds shall not be considered and the
appellant’s failure to state a ground constitutes a waiver of the right to
subsequently raise the omitted ground.
   (C)   Hearing; evidence. The appeal shall be a public hearing conducted de
novo. The hearing shall commence at the next available meeting date of the
appeals body after the filing of the appeal. In no event shall the hearing
commence later than 60 days after the filing of the appeal. The hearing may be
continued from to time at the discretion of the appeals body, but in no event
shall the hearing be continued for more than 60 days, unless consented to by
the property owner and the appellant, if other than the property owner. The
appeals body shall consider any relevant, reliable evidence. The admission of
evidence shall not be governed by the technical, legal rules of evidence.
Rather, any evidence which may be relied upon by a reasonable person conducting
serious business affairs shall be admitted.
   (D)   Basis for decision. The appeals body shall state the basis for its
decision. If the appeals body acts to reverse or modify the decision it
reviews, it shall state the nature of the error requiring the reversal or
modification.
   (E)   Notice of appeal. The notice of appeal also shall be given to property
owner if property owner is not the appellant. In all cases, a notice of appeal
shall be published in a newspaper of general circulation at least ten days in
advance of the commencement of the hearing.
(1966 Code, § 5B-11) (Ord. 610, § 11)
§ 19.05.012 FINALITY OF DECISION.
   Any initial decision made by the Planning Director or Planning Commission
under this chapter is not final until the later date of either:
   (A)   If no appeal is filed the expiration of the time for the filing of an
appeal; or
   (B)   If an appeal is filed, the date a final decision is made by the
appeals body hearing a final appeal possible under this chapter.
(1966 Code, § 5B-12) (Ord. 610, § 12)
§ 19.05.013 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Violation; criminal penalties. Any person violating any provision of
this chapter is guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
punished as provided in
Chapter 1.03 of this code.
   (B)   Violation; public nuisance. Any violation of this chapter is unlawful
and a public nuisance and shall be abated, eliminated and enjoined as provided
in
Chapter 1.03 of this code.
   (C)   Remedies; cumulative. Except as otherwise provided by law, the
remedies in this chapter are cumulative and not exclusive. Nothing in this
chapter is intended or shall be deemed or construed, to limit or impart the
ability of the county, or any of its officers, agents or employees, to take any
administrative or judicial action, otherwise authorized by law, to abate any
public nuisance.
Chapter 1.03 of this code is incorporated by reference as though its provisions
were fully set forth herein.
   (D)   Enforcement. The provisions of this chapter shall be enforced by the
Director of Planning or his or her designee.
(1966 Code, § 5B-13) (Ord. 610, § 13)
CHAPTER 19.07: COUNTY SERVICE AREAS
Section
   
19.07.001   Imposition of charges for extended services
   
19.07.002   Charges
   
19.07.003   Establishing a CSA
   
19.07.004   Imposition of charges for CSA
   
19.07.005   Other revenue
   
19.07.006   Refund of county service area fees
§ 19.07.001 IMPOSITION OF CHARGES FOR EXTENDED SERVICES.
   The Board of Supervisors of the County of San Benito may fix and collect
charges for a particular extended service consistent with this chapter. The
revenue obtained by these charges may be in lieu of, or supplemental to,
revenue obtained by the levy of taxes.
(1966 Code, § 5C-1) (Ord. 646, § 2(part))
§ 19.07.002 CHARGES.
   The charges imposed for services rendered by means of a county service area
shall not exceed the reasonable estimated cost of providing the service. The
charges may be determined by apportioning the total cost, not otherwise offset
by other available revenue, of the services provided within the county service,
or any zone thereof, to each parcel therein in proportion to the estimated
benefits from the service to be received by each parcel based upon the land use
classification of the parcel. The charges may be fixed on an annual basis or
may vary by reason of the nature or use of the service so that the charges
correspond to the cost and the value or benefit of the service.
(1966 Code, § 5C-2) (Ord. 646, § 2(part))
§ 19.07.003 ESTABLISHING A CSA.
   No procedures other than those required by state law shall be required to
establish a CSA.
(1966 Code, § 5C-3.1) (Ord. 646, § 2(part))
§ 19.07.004 IMPOSITION OF CHARGES FOR CSA.
   (A)   Once a year, on or before July 10, the department head who administers
each county service area shall prepare a written report, which report shall
contain a description of each parcel of real property receiving the particular
service through a county service area and the amount of the charge for each
parcel for such year computed in conformity with the procedure set forth in
this chapter. The report shall be forwarded to the Public Works Director who
shall forthwith file the report with the Clerk of the Board of Supervisors.
   (B)   Upon the filing of the report, the Clerk shall fix a time, date and
place for hearing to occur on or before August 31, to consider the written
report and for filing objections or protests thereto. The Clerk shall publish
notice of the hearing as provided in Cal. Gov’t Code § 6066, prior to the date
set for hearing, in a newspaper of general circulation printed and published in
the county.
   (C)   At the time, date and place stated in the notice, the Board of
Supervisors shall hear and consider the report and all objections or protests,
if any, to the report. The Board of Supervisors may continue the hearing from
time to time. Upon conclusion of the hearing, the Board of Supervisors may
adopt, revise, change, reduce or modify any charge and shall make its
determination upon each charge as described in the report and thereafter, by
resolution, shall confirm the report.
   (D)   The charges set forth in the report, as confirmed, shall appear as a
separate item on the tax bill. The charge shall be collected and shall be
subject to the same manner as ordinary county ad valorem property taxes are
collected and shall be subject to the same penalties and the same procedure and
sale in case of delinquency as provided for the taxes. All laws applicable to
the levy, collection and enforcement of county ad valorem property taxes shall
be applicable to the charge; except that, if for the first year the charge is
levied the real property to which the charge relates has been transferred or
conveyed to a bona fide purchaser for value, or if a lien of a bona fide
encumbrancer for value has been created and attaches thereon, prior to the date
on which the first installment of the taxes would become delinquent, the charge
confirmed pursuant to this section shall not result in a lien against the real
property but instead shall be transferred to the unsecured roll for collection.
   (E)   Whenever a railroad, gas, water or electric utility right-of-way or
electric line right-of-way is included within the county service area, or zone
thereof, the railroad, gas, water or electric utility right-of-way or electric
line right-of-way shall be subject to the charges authorized only if, and to
the extent that, it is found that it will benefit from the particular extended
service, and the railroad, gas, water or electric utility right-of-way or
electric line right-of-way shall be subject to the same penalties, and the same
procedure and sale, in case of delinquency as other properties in the service
area or zone. In determining whether or not the railroad, gas, water or
electric utility right-of-way or electric line right-of-way benefits from the
extended service, its use as a right-of-way for a railroad, gas, water or
electric utility shall be presumed to be permanent.
(1966 Code, § 5C-3.2) (Ord. 646, § 2(part))
§ 19.07.005 OTHER REVENUE.
   The Board of Supervisors may fund the services provided by a county service
area other than by imposing charges by complying with any applicable state laws
governing the use and imposition of the revenue.
(1966 Code, § 5C-4) (Ord. 646, § 2(part))
§ 19.07.006 REFUND OF COUNTY SERVICE AREA FEES.
   (A)   Fees imposed for services rendered by a county service area may be
refunded by a county service area as set forth below:
      (1)   To the property owners currently residing within the county service
area, based on the percentage each parcel contributed towards the fee, or based
on some other equitable division as determined appropriate by the Board of
Supervisors; or,
      (2)   To any entity acting as a successor to the county service area
which is providing, or will provide in the future, some or all of the services
provided by the county service area.
   (B)   The county service area shall conduct a public hearing on the issue of
whether or not to refund county service area fees.
   (C)   At least ten days prior to the public hearing, the county service area
shall mail notice to the record owners of each parcel within the county service
area of the date, time and location of the public hearing.
   (D)   At the public hearing, the Board of Supervisors acting as the
governing authority of the county service area (hereinafter "Board") may
determine to authorize the refund and how the refund shall be distributed.
   (E)   The Board's decision may be announced at the close of the hearing. If
the decision is not announced at the close of the hearing, the date, time, and
place of the announcement of the decision shall be announced at the hearing.
   (F)   Funds may be disbursed as directed after the passage of 90 days from
the time the Board's decision regarding the refund is announced.
(Ord. 897, § 1)
CHAPTER 19.09: COUNTY HIGHWAYS AND PARKS ADOPTION PROGRAM
Section
   
19.09.001   Findings
   
19.09.002   Definitions
   
19.09.003   Donations to maintain or enhance county highways, parks or other
county property
   
19.09.004   Courtesy sign
   
19.09.005   Program restrictions
   
19.09.006   Agreement requirements
Cross-reference:
   Parks, see
Chapter 19.23 of this code
   Plan Lines, see
Chapter 19.25 of this code
   Roads and Highways, see
Chapter 19.27 of this code
   Traffic Regulations, see Title 17 of this code
   Zoning, see Title 25 of this code
§ 19.09.001 FINDINGS.
   The Board of Supervisors finds as follows:
   (A)   Well-maintained county highways, county parks and county property
available for the use of the public benefits the public health, safety and
welfare of all the citizens of San Benito County;
   (B)   Improvements to the county highways, county parks and other county
property enhance the quality of life for San Benito County citizens;
   (C)   Given the needs of California citizens and given the financial
constraints legally imposed on all California government entities, particularly
counties, there are often shortages of funding for various programs;
   (D)   In light of these shortages, it is desirable to create public-private
partnerships whereby private persons or entities may provide voluntary
donations of funds, services or goods for necessary county programs; and
   (E)   The regulations authorized in this chapter are designed to address the
facts and circumstances outlined in these findings.
(1966 Code, § 5D-1) (Ord. 713, § 1(part); Ord. 715, § 1(part))
§ 19.09.002 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GOODS. Any supplies, equipment or personal property of any nature.
   PARTICIPANTS. Persons seeking to donate funds, goods or services under the
program authorized by this chapter. A person may be an individual, a
partnership, a corporation, including a non-profit corporation, an
unincorporated association of persons or a limited liability company.
   PROGRAM. The authorization specified by this chapter whereby a person seeks
to donate funds, goods or services for the maintenance or improvement of any
county highway, county park or other county property available for public use.
County property may include, without limitation, real property such as the
Veteran’s Memorial Building or personal property such as call boxes. County
property may also include property owned or controlled jointly by county and
another government entity or property owned by an entity of which the county is
a constituent part.
   SERVICE. The performance of any labor or task.
   TO ADOPT. A county highway, park or other county property means to
participate in the program authorized by this chapter by providing funds,
property or services to the county for the maintenance or enhancement of the
county highway, park or property.
(1966 Code, § 5D-2) (Ord. 713, § 1(part); Ord. 715, § 1(part))
§ 19.09.003 DONATIONS TO MAINTAIN OR ENHANCE COUNTY HIGHWAYS, PARKS OR OTHER
COUNTY PROPERTY.
   (A)   The county may enter into an agreement to accept funds, goods or
services from any person for maintenance or enhancement of a section of a
county highway, of a county park or of other county property available for
public use. The county and the sponsoring person may specify in the agreement
the level of maintenance that will be performed.
   (B)   For donations for the maintenance or improvements of county highways
only, the Board of Supervisors delegates to the Public Works Director the power
to accept any gift, bequest or devise of funds, goods or services from any
person to or in favor of the county for the purpose of maintaining or enhancing
a section of county highway, of a county park or of other county property
available for public use. The Public Works Director shall file with the Board
each quarter a report that describes the source and value of each gift valued
in excess of $10,000. The county shall hold and dispose of the property and the
income and increase thereof for those lawful uses and proposes as are
prescribed in the terms of the gift, bequest or devise upon acceptance. In
accounting for, or inventorying, gifts, bequests or devises, the Public Works
Director shall follow the appropriate procedures contained in the State
Controller’s manual entitled Accounting Standards and Procedures for Counties.
For donations for the maintenance or improvement of county parks or other
county property available for public use, the Board of Supervisors shall be the
sole entity which shall consider and accept any donation.
(1966 Code, § 5D-3) (Ord. 713, § 1(part); Ord. 715, § 1(part))
§ 19.09.004 COURTESY SIGN.
   The Public Works Director may authorize a courtesy sign in the name of the
person donating funds, goods or services. These courtesy signs shall be
consistent with existing code provisions and county rules and regulations
concerning signs.
(1966 Code, § 5D-4) (Ord. 713, § 1(part); Ord. 715, § 1(part))
§ 19.09.005 PROGRAM RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   The program shall include the following requirements:
      (1)   Participants shall agree to perform services for two years;
      (2)   The minimum length of an adopted segment is two miles for litter
removal on county highways; and
      (3)   Work must be performed according to the assigned frequency to be
determined by the county Public Works Director for the particular property
adopted. The frequency may be on an occurrence basis or on a daily, weekly,
bimonthly, monthly or quarterly (four times per year), schedule depending on
the nature of the services.
   (B)   The program may apply to all types of county highways, county parks
and other county property. Some sections of county highways, of county parks
and of other county property may be unacceptable for the program for the
following reasons:
      (1)   Heavy traffic;
      (2)   Narrow roadside/roadway shoulders;
      (3)   Poor roadway alignment;
      (4)   Rugged terrain, steep slopes;
      (5)   Property is currently adopted;
      (6)   Property conditions inappropriate for age level/experience of
participants;
      (7)   Dense vegetation;
      (8)   Restricted visibility;
      (9)   High runoff potential;
      (10)   Frequency required for work too great for capability of
participants; or
      (11)   Safety or other concerns justify exclusion from the program in the
sole discretion of the Public Works Director.
(1966 Code, § 5D-5) (Ord. 713, § 1(part); Ord. 715, § 1(part))
§ 19.09.006 AGREEMENT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The agreement specified in §
19.09.005 shall minimally specify the following requirements:
      (1)   Restrictions to provide reasonable protection for the safety of
persons providing services, safety of the public and safety of county officers
and employees;
      (2)   Indemnification of the county;
      (3)   Minimum requirements for donations of goods and services such as
those requirements specified in §
19.09.005 of this chapter;
      (4)   A limit of duration of any agreement not to exceed two years;
      (5)   Adequate insurance requirements in the amount determined by the
Public Works Director;
      (6)   A termination for convenience clause; and
      (7)   A release of county liability.
   (B)   For donations for the maintenance or improvement of county highways
only, the Public Works Director is authorized to execute an agreement specified
in §
19.09.003 on behalf of the Board of Supervisors after the agreement has been
approved as to legal form by the County Counsel.
(1966 Code, § 5D-6) (Ord. 713, § 1(part); Ord. 715, § 1(part))
CHAPTER 19.11: DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENTS
Section
   
19.11.001   Purpose; authority
   
19.11.002   Definitions
   
19.11.003   Eligible development projects
   
19.11.004   Qualification of applicants
   
19.11.005   Duration of development agreements
   
19.11.006   Form and contents of development agreements
   
19.11.007   Applications
   
19.11.008   Review process
   
19.11.009   Variance
   
19.11.010   Recordation
   
19.11.011   Amendment and cancellation by mutual consent; modification and
termination because of non- compliance
   
19.11.012   Periodic compliance review
   
19.11.013   Miscellaneous provisions
   
19.11.014   Appeals
§ 19.11.001 PURPOSE; AUTHORITY.
   (A)   This chapter authorizes the county, at its discretion, to enter into a
binding agreement with any qualified applicant for the development of real
property. The agreement, referred to as a “development agreement” shall be
governed by this chapter. This chapter is adopted under authority of Cal. Gov’t
Code §§ 65864 et seq.
   (B)   The purpose of this chapter is to strengthen the public planning
process, to encourage private participation in comprehensive, long range
planning and to reduce the economic costs of development by enabling the county
and a developer seeking county approval of a development project to enter into
a development agreement which vests certain development rights and which
requires a developer to provide additional public benefits. The appropriate use
of development agreements will reduce uncertainty in the development review
process, will promote long-term stability in the land use planning process and
will result in significant public gain.
(1966 Code, § 6A.05-1) (Ord. 653, § 1(part))
§ 19.11.002 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   The terms used in this chapter are consistent with the same terms used
in the enabling legislation, Cal. Gov’t Code § 65864.
   (B)   Where used in this chapter, the following words and phrases shall have
the following meanings given to them in this section.
      BOARD. The Board of Supervisors of the county.
      COMMISSION. The Planning Commission of the county.
      COUNTY. The County of San Benito.
      DEPARTMENT. The Building and Planning Department of the county.
      DEVELOPER. The qualified applicant for a development interest in the real
property which is the subject of the development agreement, the owner or owners
of the fee title of the real property which is the subject of the development
agreement, or the authorized agent of any of the foregoing persons.
      DEVELOPMENT PROJECT. As project proposed for the development of real
property requiring the approval of the county in order to proceed to
completion. A DEVELOPMENT PROJECT, as used in this chapter, may involve county
approval that is classified either as legislative action or as quasi-judicial
(administrative) action. A single development project may include multiple
legal parcels as long as the parcels are contiguous and part of a single
integrated plan of development.
      PLANNING DIRECTOR. The head of the Planning and Building Departments and
the Chief Planning Officer of the county. Unless otherwise stated, the Planning
Director’s designee may be substituted for the Planning Director wherever this
chapter mentions Planning Director.
      STATE. The State of California.
(1966 Code, § 6A.05-2) (Ord. 653, § 1(part))
§ 19.11.003 ELIGIBLE DEVELOPMENT PROJECTS.
   (A)   The Board of Supervisors determines that it is the policy of the
county that development agreements shall result in public benefits beyond those
benefits which would be forthcoming through conditions of development project
approvals.
   (B)   Consequently, only those proposed development projects which are of a
size and nature so as to produce one or more of the following substantial
additional public benefits from a development agreement are eligible for
consideration for a development agreement:
      (1)   Provisions for construction of critical roadway lengths where their
construction might otherwise be accomplished tract by tract, uncoordinated with
the need for overall arterial roadway system completion;
      (2)   Provisions for transportation system management plans to include
greater availability of public transit opportunities, carpooling, vanpooling,
staggered work hours and/or staggered work days, thereby reducing roadway
congestion during peak periods;
      (3)   Commitments to accelerate development of employment sites to
promote county work opportunities;
      (4)   Accelerated or increased dedication of improvement of parks and
open space in excess of current requirements;
      (5)   Dedication of land and/or construction of other needed county
infrastructure, including, without limitation, fire stations, libraries,
schools, police facilities or water, sewer or solid waste disposal facilities.
It is the policy of this Board is that a commitment to participate, on a pro
rata basis, in county library, fire and Sheriff facilities necessary to serve
new development be included as a public benefit in all development agreements;
and
      (6)   Greater commitment to affordable housing than that which is
authorized by state law or county policies.
(1966 Code, § 6A.05-3) (Ord. 653, § 1(part))
§ 19.11.004 QUALIFICATION OF APPLICANTS.
   Only a qualified applicant may file an application to enter into a
development agreement. A qualified applicant is a person who has a legal or
equitable interest in the real property which is the subject of the development
agreement. In all instances, all owners of the fee title of the real property
shall join in the application as additional applicants. The Planning Director
may require an applicant to submit proof of the applicant’s interest in the
real property. The qualified applicant and any successors in interest may be
hereinafter referred to as “developer”.
(1966 Code, § 6A.05-4) (Ord. 653, § 1(part))
§ 19.11.005 DURATION OF DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENTS.
   Every development agreement shall be for a limited term of years, not to
exceed 15 years from the date of execution, except where a longer time is
necessary to fund debt financing requirements for public facilities or except
under extraordinary economic circumstances. The term shall be subject to
amendment in accordance with the procedures set forth herein.
(1966 Code, § 6A.05-5) (Ord. 653, § 1(part))
§ 19.11.006 FORM AND CONTENTS OF DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENTS.
   (A)   Form of development agreements. A development agreement generally
shall be in the form of the standard agreement which the Board may approve from
time to time. However, except as otherwise provided by law or as specified in
these procedures and requirements, provisions of a development agreement may be
modified, deleted or included as is appropriate to the specific circumstances
of the application. In the event and to the extent a development agreement
contains different provisions than those set forth in this
Chapter 19.11, then the provisions in the development agreement shall prevail.
   (B)   Contents of development agreements. Development agreements shall
contain the following terms and conditions:
      (1)   Duration of the agreement;
      (2)   Permitted uses of the property;
      (3)   The density or intensity of uses;
      (4)   The maximum height and size of proposed buildings and structures;
      (5)   Provisions for reservation or dedication of land for public
purposes;
      (6)   Conditions, terms, restrictions, and requirements for subsequent
discretionary actions; provided that such conditions, terms, restrictions and
requirements for subsequent discretionary actions shall not prevent development
of the land for the uses and to the density or intensity of development set
forth in the development agreement;
      (7)   Provisions that the construction of the development project, or any
phase thereof, shall be commenced at a particular time and completed at a
particular time; or any provision regulating the timing of development;
      (8)   The terms and conditions relating to applicant financing of
necessary public facilities and subsequent reimbursement over time;
      (9)   Any other terms to which the county and the applicant agree which
are consistent with Cal. Gov’t Code §§ 65864 et seq.;
      (10)   Standard contract clauses, such as:
         (a)   A clause describing the parties;
         (b)   A clause specifying the definitions employed in the agreement;
         (c)   Any clause which may be deemed legally necessary by the County
Counsel; and
         (d)   Clauses incorporating or implementing this chapter; which
clauses include, without limitation, subjects such as periodic review of the
development agreement, amendment or termination of the development agreement,
enforcement of the development agreement, attorneys’ fees, status of parties
and description of property.
      (11)   A clause requiring the developer to indemnify and defend the
county from all claims, or proceedings, or losses arising in connection with
the development agreement or in connection with the development project itself,
except such claims, proceedings or loses of by the developer, resulting either
from the county’s unexcused default of this agreement or from the sole
negligence or wilful misconduct of the county.
   (C)   Miscellaneous requirements of development agreements.
      (1)   Vested rights.
         (a)   A development agreement shall specify the elements of the
development project will are intended to vest.
         (b)   The vesting shall mean that all standards in the General Plan,
zoning ordinance and other rules, regulations, ordinances and official policies
applicable to the development project on the date of the adoption of the
ordinance approving the agreement remain in full force and effect. Except as
otherwise specified in this chapter, to the extent any changes in such General
Plan, zoning ordinance or other rules, regulations, ordinances or policies are
in conflict with the vested elements, the vested elements shall prevail.
         (c)   To the extent any provisions of future General Plans, zoning
ordinance or other rules, ordinances, regulations or policies, are applicable
to the subject property and are not in conflict with the vested elements, such
future General Plan, zoning ordinance or other rules, ordinances, regulations
or policies shall be applicable. Notwithstanding the foregoing, changes in the
county’s Building, Plumbing, Electrical, Fire and Grading Codes shall apply to
any project subject to a development agreement equally as to any project in the
unincorporated area which project is not subject to a development agreement.
      (2)   Assignability of development agreements. Development agreements
shall be assignable subject to terms mutually agreeable to the parties.
      (3)   Future discretionary review. The development agreement shall only
bind the county to the extent that the county has approved the development
project. The county retains full discretionary powers to approve or disapprove
any subsequent applications related to the development project as if the
development agreement were not in effect.
      (4)   No substitute for project conditions. The consideration for a
development agreement shall not be a substitute for project conditions imposed
incidental to any discretionary approvals related to the development project.
(1966 Code, § 6A.05-6) (Ord. 653, § 1(part); Ord. 941, § 1, 2015)
§ 19.11.007 APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   Filing. All applications for development agreements shall be filed
with the Director of Planning. The form of the application shall be as
prescribed by the Director.
   (B)   Contents. The application shall include:
      (1)   A proposed development agreement consistent with §
19.11.006;
      (2)   Sufficient information and data to enable the Planning Director to
perform an initial study pursuant to the California Environmental Quality Act
(CEQA);
      (3)   Sufficient information and data to enable the Planning Director to
analyze the application under this chapter;
      (4)   Sufficient information and data to establish that the project is
consistent with the county’s General Plan and all applicable Specific Plans;
and
      (5)   Such other information and data as the Planning Director may
require as is necessary to evaluate and process the application.
   (C)   Fees.
      (1)   Applicant shall pay all actual costs incurred by the county in
processing an application for a development agreement as an application and
processing fee.
      (2)   No application shall be accepted unless the application is
accompanied by a deposit of $5,000. The deposit shall be used to pay for the
application and processing fee. The county’s actual costs shall be computed by
multiplying the number of hours actually expended by various county personnel
in processing the application times the standard contract hourly rates
established for those personnel by the County Auditor. Expenses incurred by the
county, including, without limitation, legal fees for the negotiation of the
development agreement, shall also be included. If the actual costs are less
than the amount deposited pursuant to this section, the county shall return the
balance to the developer. In cases where the Planning Director determines that
the costs actually incurred to date exceed, or will exceed, the original
deposit plus any additional deposits made by the developer pursuant to this
section, the Planning Director shall notify in writing the developer to submit,
within 30 days, an additional deposit in an amount equal to the original
deposit as a condition precedent to further processing of the application.
      (3)   The failure to deposit the additional deposit shall be deemed to be
a withdrawal of the application.
   (D)   Separate development projects. A separate application shall be filed
for each development project for which a development agreement is requested.
(1966 Code, § 6A.05-7) (Ord. 653, § 1(part))
§ 19.11.008 REVIEW PROCESS.
   (A)   Planning Director’s review.
      (1)   Upon receipt of the completed application, the Planning Director
shall complete an initial review of the application to determine if the
application is appropriately made. An application for a development agreement
is “appropriately made” if it is made by a qualified applicant for an eligible
development project. If the Planning Director determines that the application
is not appropriately made, the Planning Director shall notify the applicant of
this fact and the application process shall terminate.
      (2)   If the Planning Director determines that the application is
appropriately made, the Planning Director shall evaluate the application to
determine if the county should enter into the proposed development agreement.
The Planning Director shall make a report to the Planning Commission which
shall hold a public hearing to consider the application as further specified in
this section.
   (B)   Planning Commission review.
      (1)   If the Planning Director determines that the application is
appropriately made, the matter shall be scheduled for a public hearing before
the Planning Commission. After the public hearing by the Planning Commission,
the Commission shall make its recommendation about the application for a
development agreement by written resolution to the Board of Supervisors. The
Planning Commission shall not recommend that the county enter into the
development agreement unless the Commission makes all of the following
findings:
         (a)   The development agreement is consistent with the General Plan
and any applicable specific or area plans;
         (b)   The development agreement is compatible with the uses authorized
in, and the regulation prescribed for, the zoning district in which the real
property is located;
         (c)   The development agreement is consistent with public health,
safety and general welfare and good land use practice;
         (d)   The development agreement will not adversely affect the orderly
development of the surrounding community;
         (e)   The proposed development project should be encouraged in order
to meet important economic, social, environmental or planning goals of the
county; and
         (f)   The subject development project and development agreement are
consistent with this chapter.
      (2)   The Commission’s resolution to the Board shall include evidence
supporting its determination regardless of the nature of the Commission’s
recommendation.
   (C)   Decision by the Board of Supervisors.
      (1)   Upon receipt of the Planning Commission’s recommendation, the Board
of Supervisors shall schedule a public hearing on the matter. After completion
of this hearing, the Board may accept, modify or disapprove the recommendation
of the Planning Commission. It may, but need not, refer matters not previously
considered by the Planning Commission during its hearing back to the Planning
Commission for further report and recommendation.
      (2)   The Board of Supervisors shall not approve a development agreement
unless it makes the findings specified in division (B) of this section. Even if
all of the findings set forth in division (B) of this section can be made, the
Board of Supervisors, in its sole discretion, may deny the development
agreement on the grounds that in its opinion the proposed development agreement
is not in the best interest of the public.
      (3)   The Board of Supervisors may add, modify or delete any provision of
the proposed development agreement as a condition of approval.
   (D)   Ordinance approving the development agreement.
      (1)   If the Board of Supervisors approves the development agreement, it
shall do so by the adoption of an ordinance approving the development agreement
and authorizing the Planning Director to execute the development agreement.
      (2)   After the ordinance approving the development agreement takes
effect, the Planning Director shall execute the agreement on behalf of the
county. No development agreement shall be signed by the Director until it has
been duly signed by the applicant. If the applicant has not signed and returned
the approved development agreement to the Director for the Director’s signature
within 30 days of the Board’s adoption of the ordinance approving the
development agreement, the application shall be deemed withdrawn by applicant.
      (3)   The effective date of the agreement shall be the effective date of
the ordinance, unless a later date or the occurrence of an event is specified
in the development agreement as the effective date.
      (4)   No development agreement shall be approved until the underlying
legislative approvals have been obtained by the developer.
   (E)   Notices/public hearings.
      (1)   Notice. The Planning Director shall give notice of all public
hearings conducted by the Planning Commission and the Board of Supervisors to
consider adoption of a development agreement as required by Cal. Gov’t Code §
65867 and by this chapter.
      (2)   Failure to receive notice. The failure of any person entitled to
notice by law to receive the notice does not affect the authority of the county
to enter into a development agreement.
      (3)   Rules governing conduct of public hearings. Public hearings shall
be conducted as nearly as possible in accordance with the procedural standards
required for taking legislative action. Each person interested in the
application shall be given an opportunity to be heard. The applicant shall have
the burden of proof to establish the mandatory findings specified in divisions
(B) and (C)(2) above.
      (4)   Irregularity in proceedings. No action, inaction or recommendation
regarding a proposed development agreement shall be held void or invalid or be
set aside by a court by reason of any error, irregularity or omission as to any
matter pertaining to the application, notice, finding, record, hearing, report,
recommendation or any matter of procedure unless after an examination of the
entire case, including the evidence, a court is of the opinion that the error
complained of was prejudicial, that the complaining party suffered a
substantial injury by reason of the prejudice caused by the error, and that a
different result would have been more probable than not had the prejudicial
error not occurred. There shall be no presumption:
         (a)   That an error is prejudicial;
         (b)   That a prejudicial error resulted in substantial injury; or
         (c)   That a different result would have been more probable if the
prejudicial error would not have occurred.
(1966 Code, § 6A.05-8) (Ord. 653, § 1(part); Ord. 891, § 1)
§ 19.11.009 VARIANCE.
   (A)   Right of variance. A developer, after decision on an application, may
seek a variance to any provision of this chapter. A variance may be granted
only if the developer establishes all of the following conditions:
      (1)   That there are exceptional or extraordinary circumstances applying
to the subject property involved and to the proposed use;
      (2)   That because of such exceptional or extraordinary circumstances,
the literal enforcement of specified provisions of this chapter would result in
practical difficulty or unnecessary hardship such as to deprive the developer
of a substantial property right possessed by other developers with development
agreements in the same zoning district;
      (3)   That the allowance of the variance will not, under the
circumstances of the particular case, be materially detrimental to the public
welfare or materially injurious to persons or property in the vicinity; and
      (4)   That the allowance of the variance will be harmonious with the
general intent of this chapter and the General Plan.
   (B)   Procedure. The application for a variance shall follow procedures
identical to those applicable to an application for a development agreement.
(1966 Code, § 6A.05-9) (Ord. 653, § 1(part))
§ 19.11.010 RECORDATION.
   (A)   Within ten days after the execution of the development agreement by
all parties, the Planning Director shall cause the agreement to be recorded
with the County Recorder.
   (B)   If the parties to the development agreement or their successors in
interest amend or cancel the development agreement as hereinabove provided, or
if the county terminates or modifies the development agreement pursuant to this
chapter, the Planning Director shall cause notice of the action to be recorded
with the County Recorder.
(1966 Code, § 6A.05-10) (Ord. 653, § 1(part))
§ 19.11.011 AMENDMENT AND CANCELLATION BY MUTUAL CONSENT; MODIFICATION AND
TERMINATION BECAUSE OF NON-COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   Amendment or cancellation by mutual consent.
      (1)   Any development agreement may be amended or canceled in whole or in
part, by the mutual consent of the parties to the agreement or their successors
in interest. Any party can initiate the amendment or cancellation of a
development agreement. The procedure for an amendment or cancellation shall be
the same as the procedures for approval. The findings required for amendment or
cancellation shall be the findings specified in §
19.11.008(B) or in any applicable county regulations in effect at the time the
ordinance authorizing the amendment or cancellation is adopted. A review of a
requested amendment shall be limited to consideration of those elements
proposed to be added or changed, or of any elements affected by such changes.
      (2)   The issuance of any land use approval permit which requires a
change in any vested element of the development agreement shall require an
amendment to the development agreement for the change to be vested. The
Director of Planning shall make the determination as to whether an amendment is
necessary.
   (B)   Modification or termination because of non- compliance.
      (1)   Developer default. Failure or unreasonable delay by the developer
to perform any term or provision of the development agreement shall constitute
a material breach (default) of the development agreement. Except in cases where
the developer’s breach of the development agreement presents a threat of
imminent harm to the public, the Planning Director shall give the developer not
less than 30 days notice of default in writing specifying the nature of the
alleged default and the manner in which the default may be satisfactorily
cured. A developer shall within the 30-day period cure the default or provide
evidence providing that the developer in fact was never in default. If, within
the 30-day period, the developer either does not cure the default or does not
provide sufficient evidence to prove that the developer was never in default,
it shall be irrefutably presumed that the developer was, and remains, in
default. After the expiration of the 30-day period, in the event developer
remains in default, the county, at its option, may institute legal proceedings
for specific performance or for other injunctive or declatory relief to enforce
the agreement. As an alternative to this default procedure, the county may hold
a compliance review pursuant to this chapter.
      (2)   County default.
         (a)   In the event the county defaults under the terms of the
development agreement as to the developer, the developer shall not be obligated
to proceed with or complete the improvements required under the development
agreement, or any phase thereof, nor shall resulting delays in the developer’s
performance constitute grounds for termination or cancellation of the
development agreement.
         (b)   However, the developer may not suspend the developer’s
obligations as specified herein until 30 days after developer notifies Planning
Director in writing of county’s default, the nature thereof and of developer’s
intent to suspend developer’s obligation. Within the 30-day period, county may
comply with its obligations or may demonstrate that it never failed to comply
with the development agreement.
         (c)   Alternatively, the developer, at the developer’s option, may
institute legal proceedings for specific performance or other injunctive or
declaratory relief to enforce the agreement. However, the developer shall not
file any legal proceedings with a court or other tribunal until the developer
applies with the Planning Commission for a determination of county’s default.
The developer shall have the burden of proving the county’s default before the
Planning Commission which shall conduct a public hearing before making a
determination.
(1966 Code, § 6A.05-11) (Ord. 653, § 1(part))
§ 19.11.012 PERIODIC COMPLIANCE REVIEW.
   (A)   The Director of Planning shall set a public hearing before the
Planning Commission to review a developer’s compliance with the development
agreement on an annual basis and at any other time that the Director determines
that there are reasonable grounds to believe that the developer may be in
default under the agreement.
   (B)   Upon not less than 30 days’ written notice by the Director of
Planning, the developer shall provide such information and documents as may be
deemed by the Director as reasonably necessary to ascertain compliance with the
development agreement.
   (C)   At any compliance hearing, the developer shall be given the
opportunity to be heard orally or in writing regarding performance under the
agreement. The developer shall have the burden of providing compliance at the
public hearing before the Planning Commission.
   (D)   If the Planning Commission finds the developer to be in full
compliance with all terms and conditions of the agreement, it shall adopt a
written resolution certifying compliance with the development agreement through
the applicable period of review. The developer may cause the resolution to be
recorded with the County Recorder.
   (E)   If the Planning Commission finds that good faith compliance with all
terms and conditions of the agreement has not been demonstrated, the Commission
shall refer the matter along with its recommendation to the Board of
Supervisors.
   (F)   If the Planning Commission refers the matter, to the Board, the Board
of Supervisors shall conduct a public hearing on compliance at its first
available agenda after the referral. The Board shall hear the matter de novo,
meaning that the Board shall base its decision on the record generated by the
Planning Commission proceedings and based upon any new evidence presented in
connection with the public hearings before the Board. The developer shall bear
the burden of proving compliance at the public hearing before the Board.
   (G)   If the Board of Supervisors finds and determines, on the basis of
substantial evidence, that the developer has not demonstrated compliance with
all terms and conditions of the agreement, the Board may terminate or modify
the agreement.
(1966 Code, § 6A.05-12) (Ord. 653, § 1(part))
§ 19.11.013 MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Change in state or federal law. No development agreement shall
preclude the application to the subject property of changes in county laws,
regulations, plans or policies, the terms of which are specifically mandated
and required by changes in valid state or federal law or regulations. In the
event of state or federal laws or regulations enacted after the development
agreement has been executed or of the actions, of any governmental agency,
other than the county, prevent or preclude compliance with one or more
provisions of this agreement or require changes in plans, maps or permits
approved by county, the development agreement shall be modified, extended or
suspended as may be necessary to comply with the state or federal laws or
regulations or the actions of such other governmental jurisdictions.
   (B)   Forms. The Planning Director shall prepare and adopt such application
forms, checklists and other documents as the Planning Director considers
necessary and desirable to implement this chapter.
   (C)   Reserved approvals.
      (1)   Nothing herein shall be construed to limit the authority or
obligation of the county to hold necessary public hearings or to limit the
discretion of the county or any of its officers with regards to rules,
regulations, ordinances, laws and entitlements of use which require the
exercise of discretion by the county or any of the county’s officers, provided
that subsequent discretionary actions shall not be in conflict with those
elements vested in the development agreement.
      (2)   Nothing herein to the contrary, all applications for approvals,
permits and entitlements shall be subject to the development and processing
fees and taxes which are in force and effect at the time the application
therefor is filed.
      (3)   Nothing herein shall be construed to limit the authority of the
county to adopt and apply codes, ordinances or regulations which have the legal
effect of protecting persons or property from dangerous conditions which create
a substantial physical risk. This division is not intended to limit the
intensity of the development or the use of the subject property contrary to the
development agreement, but rather to protect and recognize the authority of the
county to deal with dangerous circumstances not adequately addressed at the
time of the adoption of the development agreement.
(1966 Code, § 6A.05-13) (Ord. 653, § 1(part))
§ 19.11.014 APPEALS.
   Any decision of the Planning Director can be appealed within ten days of
that decision by application of the developer made to the Planning Commission.
Any decision of the Planning Commission, except for a determination of
developer compliance, can be appealed within ten days of that decision by
application of any interested party made to the Board. All appeals shall be de
novo, meaning that the decision on appeal shall be based on the entire record
established prior to the appeal hearing as well as upon any new evidence
presented for the appeal. The appellate body may deny the appeal, sustain the
appeal, or modify the decision which was the basis for the appeal. The
appellate body may remand the matter to the entity which made the original
decision to take appropriate action consistent with the decision of the
appellate body on appeal. The decision of the appellate body shall be made by
written resolution, which shall also specify the error committed by the entity
making the original decision. The Board may, from time to time, specify a fee
to cover the county’s costs of processing and reviewing any appeals.
(1966 Code, § 6A.05-14) (Ord. 653, § 1(part))
CHAPTER 19.13: SURFACE MINING OPERATIONS AND RECLAMATION
Section
   
19.13.001   Declaration of intent
   
19.13.002   Definitions
   
19.13.003   Incorporation by reference
   
19.13.004   Prohibition
   
19.13.005   Exemptions
   
19.13.006   Vested rights
   
19.13.007   Processing of application
   
19.13.008   Use permits
   
19.13.009   Reclamation plans
   
19.13.010   Financial assurances
   
19.13.011   Existing reclamation plans findings
   
19.13.012   Interim management plans
   
19.13.013   Development standards for surface mining operation
   
19.13.014   County owned and operated borrow pits
   
19.13.015   Legal non-conforming surface mining operations
   
19.13.016   Public records
   
19.13.017   Annual report requirements
   
19.13.018   Periodic inspection
   
19.13.019   Appeals
   
19.13.020   Insurance
   
19.13.021   State and federal law
   
19.13.022   Enforcement
   
19.13.023   Mineral resource protection
   
19.13.024   Renewable energy generation facilities
§ 19.13.001 DECLARATION OF INTENT.
   The purpose of this chapter is to implement the provisions of the California
Surface Mining and Reclamation Act of 1975 (Cal. Public Resources Code (PRC) §§
2710 et seq.). It is the intention of the Board of Supervisors to regulate
surface mining operations so as to prevent or minimize the adverse
environmental effects of surface mining; to provide for the reclamation of
mined lands; to encourage the production and conservation of minerals; and to
eliminate hazards to public health and safety.
(Ord. 1057, § 3 (part), 2023)
§ 19.13.002 DEFINITIONS.
   The following words and phrases, whenever used in this chapter, shall be
construed as defined in this section.
   ABANDONMENT OF A SURFACE MINING OPERATION. The cessation of substantial
activities of the surface mining operation. An operator is conclusively
presumed to have abandoned the operation when there has been a cessation of
substantial activities for a period of one year or more. However, a surface
mining operation shall not be deemed abandoned if the operator complies with
the provisions of §
19.13.012 of this chapter.
   ALTERATION OF A SURFACE MINING OPERATION. Any substantial change in a
surface mining operation from that specified in an approved reclamation plan.
   BORROW PIT. Excavations created by the surface mining of rock,
unconsolidated geologic deposits, or soil to provide material (borrow) for fill
elsewhere.
   CALIFORNIA ENVIRONMENTAL QUALITY ACT (CEQA). The most recent version of the
PRC §§ 21000 through 21189.3, as amended.
   COUNTY. The County of San Benito, California.
   DIVISION OF MINE RECLAMATION. The California Department of Conservation,
Division of Mine Reclamation.
   EXPANSION OF SURFACE MINING OPERATION. Any substantial increase in the size
or scope of a surface mining operation. EXPANSION includes, without limitation,
engaging in surface mining operations beyond the boundaries specified in an
approved reclamation plan, beyond the volume of materials specified in the
reclamation plan, or the depth of excavation specified in the reclamation plan.
   FINANCIAL ASSURANCE COST ESTIMATE (FACE). The amount of money necessary to
conduct and complete reclamation on the mined lands in accordance with the
approved reclamation plan, plus a reasonable estimate of the administrative
costs and expenses which would be incurred by the County or Division of Mine
Reclamation, the total of which shall be calculated in accordance with CCR §
3804, and shall constitute an obligation to pay by the operator. A financial
assurance cost estimate shall be prepared on the most recent FACE Form
published by the Division of Mine Reclamation.
   FINANCIAL ASSURANCE MECHANISM. An instrument, fund or other form of
Financial Assurance as provided in PRC §§ 2773.1.
   FINANCIAL ASSURANCES. A current approved financial assurance cost estimate
and a financial assurance mechanism that is at least equal to the current
approved financial assurance cost estimate.
   GRADING. To bring an existing surface to a designed form by cutting, filling
and/or smoothing operations.
   HAUL ROAD. A road along which material is transported from the area of
excavation to the processing plant or stockpile area of the surface mining
operation.
   IDLE. A surface mining operation at which the operator has curtailed
production, with the intent to resume the surface mining operation at a future
date, for a period of one year or more by more than 90% of its maximum annual
mineral production within any of the last five years during which an interim
management plan has not been approved.
   LEGAL NON-CONFORMING SURFACE MINING OPERATION. A surface mining operation
which was a valid land use for its location when it was created and which by
ordinance enacted after that land use began is no longer conforming to current
regulations.
   MINED LANDS. The surface, subsurface and groundwater of an area in which
surface mining operations will be, are being or have been conducted, including
private ways and roads appurtenant to any such area, land excavations,
workings, mining waste and areas in which structures, facilities, equipment,
machines, tools or other materials or property which result from, or are used
in, surface mining operations are located.
   MINERALS. Any naturally occurring chemical element or compound, or group of
elements and compounds, formed from inorganic processes and organic substances,
including, but not limited to, coal, peat and bituminous rock, but excluding
geothermal resources, natural gas and petroleum.
   MINING WASTE. The residual of soil, rock, mineral, liquid vegetation,
equipment, machines, tools or other materials or directly resulting from, or
displaced by, surface mining operations.
   OPERATOR. Any person who is engaged in surface mining operations, or who
contracts with others to conduct operations on his or her behalf, except a
person who is engaged in surface mining operations as an employee with wages as
his or her sole compensation.
   OVERBURDEN. Soil, rock or other materials that lie above a natural mineral
deposit or in between  mineral deposits, before or after the removal by surface
mining operations.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, association, corporation, organization or
partnership, limited liability company or the like, or any city, county,
district or the state or any department or agency thereof.
   RECLAMATION. The combined process of land treatment that minimizes water
degradation, air pollution, damage to aquatic or wildlife habitat, flooding,
erosion and other adverse effects from surface mining operations, including
adverse surface effects incidental to underground mines, so that mined lands
are reclaimed to a usable condition which is readily adaptable for alternate
land uses and create no danger to public health or safety. The process may
extend to affected lands surrounding mined lands, and may require backfilling,
grading, resoiling, revegetation, soil compaction, slope stabilization, or
other measures.
   STATE MINING AND GEOLOGY BOARD (BOARD). California State Mining and Geology
Board.
   STREAM BED SKIMMING. Excavation of sand and gravel from stream bed deposits
above the mean summer water level or stream bottom, (thalweg) whichever is
higher.
   SMARA. The State of California Surface Mining and Reclamation Act, Cal.
Public Resources Code Division 2, Chapter 9 (§§ 2710 et seq.), PRC § 2207 and
state regulations, and Cal. Code of Regulations (CCR) Title 14, Division 2,
Chapter 8, Article 1 (§§ 3500 et seq.).
   SUBSTANTIAL DEVIATION. A change or expansion to a surface mining operation
as defined in PRC § 2735 that substantially affects the completion of the
previously approved reclamation plan, or that changes the end use of the
approved plan to the extent that the scope of the reclamation required for the
surface mining operation is substantially changed, as provided in CCR § 3502
(d), as revised.
   SURFACE MINING OPERATIONS.
      (1)   All, or any part of, the process involved in the mining of minerals
on mined lands by removing overburden and mining directly from the mineral
deposits, open-pit mining of minerals naturally exposed, mining by the auger
method, dredging and quarrying, or surface work incident to an underground
mine. SURFACE MINING OPERATIONS include, but are not limited to:
         (a)   In-place distillation or retorting or leaching;
         (b)   The production and disposal of mining waste;
         (c)   Prospecting and exploratory activities; and
         (d)   Borrow pitting, streambed skimming and segregation and
stockpiling of mined materials (and recovery of same).
      (2)   A SURFACE MINING OPERATION is an operation existing on one parcel
or multiple adjacent parcels constituting a single integrated operation.
   TOPSOIL. The upper part of the soil profile that is relatively rich in
humus, which is technically known as the A-horizon of the soil profile.
(Ord. 1057, § 3 (part), 2023)
§ 19.13.003 INCORPORATION BY REFERENCE.
   The provisions of the Surface Mining and Reclamation Act (SMARA), Cal.
Public Resources Code Division 2, Chapter 9 (§§ 2710 et seq.), PRC § 2207 and
state regulations, and Cal. Code of Regulations Title 14, Division 2, Chapter
8, Article 1 (§§ 3500 et seq.), as those provisions and regulations may be
amended from time to time, are made a part of this chapter by reference with
the same force and effect as if the provisions therein were specifically and
fully set out herein, excepting that when the provisions of this chapter are
more restrictive than correlative state provisions, this chapter shall prevail.
(Ord. 1057, § 3 (part), 2023)
§ 19.13.004 PROHIBITION.
   Except as provided in §§
19.13.005 and
19.13.006 of this chapter, no person shall conduct surface mining operations
unless a use permit or vested right to mine, reclamation plan and financial
assurances for reclamation have first been approved by the County for the
surface mining operations pursuant to this chapter. Any applicable exemption
from this requirement does not automatically exempt a project or activity from
other state or local statutes, regulations ordinances or policies including,
but not limited to, the application of CEQA, conditions of approval of the use
permit or other permits, the obligation to payment of development impact fees
or the imposition of other dedications and exactions. The provisions of this
chapter shall apply to all lands within the county, public and private.
(Ord. 1057, § 3 (part), 2023)
§ 19.13.005 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   The exemptions set forth in PRC § 2714 and CCR § 3505(a), as those
exemptions may be amended from time to time, are made a part of this chapter by
reference with the same force and effect as if the exemptions therein were
specifically and fully set out herein.
   (B)   To the extent practical, the County shall provide the then current
list of these exemptions on the County's website.
(Ord. 1057, § 3 (part), 2023)
§ 19.13.006 VESTED RIGHTS.
   (A)   Existing vested rights. No person who has obtained a vested right to
conduct surface mining operations prior to January 1, 1976, shall be required
to secure a permit pursuant to the provisions of this chapter as long as such
vested right continues and no substantial change is made in that operation. A
person shall be deemed to have such vested rights if, prior to January 1, 1976,
he has, in good faith and in reliance upon a permit or other authorization, if
such permit or other authorization was required, diligently commenced surface
mining operations and incurred substantial liabilities for work and materials
necessary therefor. Expenses incurred in obtaining the enactment of an
ordinance in relation to a particular operation or the issuance of a permit
shall not be deemed liabilities for work or materials. Any substantial changes
made in a surface mining operation subsequent to January 1, 1976, except in
accordance with SMARA and Cal. Code of Regulations, Title 14, § 3951, shall
require an approved permit pursuant to this chapter.
   (B)   Procedure. If requested, a vested rights determination shall be made
in accordance with the following:
      (1)   Request. The operator shall submit a written request with the
Director of Planning and Building for a vested rights determination. The
request for determination shall include information pertinent to establishing
the existence and scope of the vested right. Within 30 calendar days of deeming
the request for determination complete, the Director of Planning and Building
shall set a public hearing before the Board of Supervisors and provide notice
in accordance with the procedures set forth in § 15.13.010 of this chapter.
      (2)   Public hearing. A public hearing shall be held by the Board of
Supervisors to consider the request for determination of a vested right, and,
utilizing a preponderance of the evidence standard, the Board of Supervisors
shall determine whether the operator has demonstrated its claim for a vested
right. The record before the Board of Supervisors shall consist of the written
materials received by the Director of Planning and Building, as well as any
relevant written comments on the request for determination and any relevant
testimony received at the hearing. Written comments and oral testimony other
than that related to demonstrating or delimiting the existence, nature, and
scope of the claimed vested rights shall not be considered by the Board of
Supervisors in making the vested rights determination.
      (3)   Vested rights determination. Within 60 calendar days following the
public hearing, the Board of Supervisors shall issue a written vested rights
determination. The determination shall identify upon which specific property
the vested right is established and the scope and nature of surface mining
operations included within the established vested right. Not more than 30 days
after the issuance of the determination, a copy of the vested rights
determination shall be mailed to the applicant and to any person who has made a
written request for a copy of the decision. The decision of the Board of
Supervisors shall be final.
   (C)   Reclamation plan. A person who has obtained a vested right to conduct
surface mining operations prior to January 1, 1976, shall submit to the
Planning Department for approval by the Planning Commission a reclamation plan.
This reclamation plan may cover some or all areas to which that vested right
applies, but, at a minimum, it must cover: all of the areas to which a vested
right has been found to apply on which active mining operations have been
conducted after January 1, 1976, as well as the entirety of any area to which a
vested right has been found to apply that is planned or reasonably anticipated
to contain surface mining operations in the near future. A person who has
obtained a vested right shall also submit the required documentation for a mine
inspection to the Planning Department in the same manner and with the same
frequency as those operators required to obtain a permit pursuant to this
chapter before commencing or expanding their operation. Absent an approved
reclamation plan for any area to which a vested right applies that has been
mined since January 1, 1976, including any area that is currently being mined,
the continuation of the surface mining operation shall be prohibited until a
reclamation plan is submitted and approved. Nothing in this chapter shall be
construed as requiring the filing of a reclamation plan for, or the reclamation
of, mined lands on which surface mining operations were conducted prior to, but
not after, January 1, 1976. All reclamation plans submitted to the Planning
Department for operations pursuant to a vested right that are conducted after
January 1, 1976, shall be accompanied by the fee set pursuant to this chapter
for a reclamation plan for a vested surface mining operation conducted after
January 1, 1976.
(Ord. 1057, § 3 (part), 2023)
§ 19.13.007 PROCESSING OF APPLICATION.
   (A)   Applications.
      (1)   Filing fee. To obtain a use permit for a surface mining operation,
a person shall file an application for the permit with the Planning Division of
the Resource Management Agency. Applications shall be accompanied by a fee
according to the most recent fee schedule approved by the Board of Supervisors.
      (2)   Form and content.
         (a)   Applications for a use permit, reclamation plan, or amendment to
a reclamation plan for surface mining or land reclamation projects shall be
filed in accordance with this chapter and procedures to be established by the
Planning Director. The forms for reclamation plan applications shall include,
at a minimum, each of the elements required by SMARA (particularly PRC §§ 2772
through 2773) and state regulations, and any other requirements necessary to
facilitate an expeditious and fair evaluation of the proposed reclamation plan,
shall be submitted to the Planning Division of the Resource Management Agency.
         (b)   Applications shall include all required environmental review
forms and information as specified on application forms.
         (c)   For surface mining operations determined vested and exempt from
a use permit pursuant to this chapter, the reclamation plan application shall
include information concerning the mining operation that is required for
processing the reclamation plan. The applicant shall submit to the Planning
Division of the Resource Management Agency all documentation required for the
reclamation plan at one time. Applications shall include all required
environmental review forms and information specified on application forms.
      (3)   Acceptance. The Planning Director shall not accept applications as
complete until the applicant provides the required information in sufficient
detail to allow the Planning Director or the Director's designee to process the
application. The Planning Director or the Director's designee shall notify the
applicant when the application is accepted as complete. Acceptance of an
application shall not constitute approval of the project.
   (B)   Procedure.
      (1)   Early consultation. Within 30 days of the Planning Director’s
acceptance of an application for a use permit and/or a reclamation plan as
complete, the Planning Director or Director's designee will notify the state's
Division of Mine Reclamation that the application was filed. Whenever mining
operations are proposed in the 100-year flood plain of any stream, as shown in
Zone A of the flood insurance rate maps issued by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency, and within one mile, upstream or downstream, of any state
highway bridge, the Planning Director will also notify the state's Department
of Transportation that the application was filed.
      (2)   Review.
         (a)   The Planning Director or Director's designee shall review the
use permit and/or reclamation plan application for accuracy and completeness.
In addition, the Planning Director or Director's designee shall coordinate
review of the application with other public agencies and shall process the
application(s) through environmental review pursuant to CEQA and the County's
environmental review guidelines.
         (b)   Before approving or holding a public hearing concerning a
reclamation plan or amendment to a reclamation plan, the Planning Director
shall submit as early as practicable the reclamation plan or amendment to the
Supervisor of Mines (Supervisor) for review pursuant to PRC §§ 2772.1 and
2773.4(b). All documentation for the submission shall be submitted to the
Supervisor at one time. In making this submittal, the Planning Director shall
certify to the Supervisor that the reclamation plan or reclamation plan
amendment is complete and is in compliance with the applicable requirements of
SMARA, the SMARA regulations, and this chapter.
         (c)   During the review process the Planning Director or Director's
designee shall give the Supervisor 30 days to review the reclamation plan or
amendment to the reclamation plan for completeness. If the reclamation plan or
the reclamation plan amendment to the reclamation plan has been deemed
complete, or once all inadequacies identified by the Supervisor have been
corrected and provided to the Supervisor, the Supervisor shall have 30 days to
review and comment on the reclamation plan application/amendment. The
Supervisor shall have 15 days to review the financial assurances. If the
financial assurances have been deemed complete, or once all inadequacies
identified by the Supervisor have been corrected and provided to the
Supervisor, the Supervisor shall have 45 days to review and comment on the
financial assurances.
         (d)   In the event a use permit is required under the provisions of
this chapter, the Planning Director or Director's designee shall simultaneously
review and process the reclamation plan application. The financial assurances
shall be approved following the initial approval but may be approved by the
Planning Director or Director's designee.
      (3)   Staff report. After the appropriate environmental review, the
Planning Director will prepare a staff report with recommendations for
consideration by the Planning Commission. The staff report shall include the
state's Division of Mine Reclamation's written comments and provide a written
response describing the disposition for the major issues raised by the state.
In particular, when the County objects to the state's recommendations and
objections, the staff report shall address, in detail, why specific comments
and suggestions were not accepted. The Planning Director shall forward copies
of any written comments and the County's responses promptly to the applicant/
operator prior to the Planning Commission meeting.
      (4)   Public hearing.
         (a)   Upon completion of the environmental review process, interagency
review and filing of all documents required by the Planning Director, the
Planning Commission shall hold a public hearing to consider the applicant's
request and to approve, conditionally approve, or disapprove the issuance of a
use permit and/or reclamation plan, pursuant to PRC § 2772.1 and § 19.13.009 of
this chapter.
         (b)   Upon approval of the use permit and/or reclamation plan, the
County shall approve the financial assurances, pursuant to PRC §§ 2772.1 and
2773.4(a). This approval will be completed under a separate action. Section
19.13.010 of this chapter provides the approval process for both the initial
FACE and annual updates, thereafter.
      (5)   Certification of compliance of reclamation plan and financial
assurances with this chapter and state law. The Planning Commission shall
certify that the reclamation plan and/or financial assurances comply with the
applicable requirements of state law, If necessary to comply with permit
processing deadlines, the Planning Commission may conditionally approve the use
permits with the conditions that the mining operation shall not be activated
until the state's Division of Mine Reclamation completes its review of the cost
estimates for financial assurances and the County has reviewed and approved the
reclamation plan and financial assurances.
      (6)   Notice of reclamation plan approval.
         (a)   Following approval of a reclamation plan or an amendment to a
reclamation plan, the County shall record a "Notice of Reclamation Plan
Approval" with the County Recorder's Office in accordance with PRC § 2772.7.
The notice shall include the language set forth in PRC § 2772.7 and state the
name of the owner of record of the mining operation, identify the County as
lead agency under SMARA for the operation, contain the acknowledged signature
of the Planning Director, and include any other information required under PRC
§ 2772.7.
         (b)   Within 30 days following the approval of a reclamation plan or
amendment to a reclamation plan, the Planning Director shall provide the
Supervisor notice of the approval.
      (7)   Distribution of approved plans. No later than 60 days after the
approval of a reclamation plan or amendment to a reclamation plan, the Planning
Director shall provide to the Supervisor of the Division of Mine Reclamation
certified copies of all maps, diagrams, or calculations, signed and sealed, and
provide an official copy of the approved reclamation plan or amendment to a
reclamation plan. The official copy shall incorporate all approved
modifications to the reclamation plan or amendment to a reclamation plan and
shall include an index showing any permit conditions of approval or binding
mitigation measures adopted pursuant to CEQA as required under PRC § 2772.1.
Those conditions of approval and mitigation measures shall be included in an
appendix to the reclamation plan or amendment to a reclamation plan and shall
be considered part of the reclamation compliance requirements and subject to
the annual inspection requirements. By July 1 of each year, the Planning
Director shall submit to the state's Division of Mine Reclamation for each
active or idle mining operation a copy of the site approval or reclamation plan
amendments, as applicable, or a statement that there have been no changes
during the previous year.
      (8)   Jurisdiction. Whenever a proposed or existing surface mining
operation is within the jurisdiction of both San Benito County and another
public agency, is a permitted use within both agencies, and is not separated by
a natural or manmade barrier coinciding with the boundary of the agencies, the
evaluation of the proposed or existing operation shall be made by the lead
agency in accordance with the procedures adopted by the lead agency and PRC §
2774. If a question arises as to which public agency is the lead agency, any
affected public agency, or the affected operator, may submit the matter to the
State Mining and Geology Board (Board). The Board shall notify in writing all
affected public agencies and operators that the matter has been submitted,
specifying a date for a public hearing. The Board shall designate the public
agency which shall serve as the lead agency based on the capability of the
agency to adequately fulfill the requirements of SMARA and this chapter and
which of the public agencies has principal permit responsibility.
(Ord. 1057, § 3 (part), 2023)
§ 19.13.008 USE PERMITS.
   (A)   Use permit findings. The Planning Commission shall approve or
conditionally approve the use permit only if the evidence presented
establishes:
      (1)   That the use permit application and supporting documents describe
the surface mining operation in adequate detail, and incorporate adequate
measures to mitigate the probable or known significant environmental effects
caused by the surface mining operation;
      (2)   That the surface mining operation is properly located in relation
to the General Plan and to the community as a whole, and to other land uses,
transportation and service facilities in the vicinity;
      (3)   That the surface mining operation, if it complies with all
conditions upon which approval is made contingent, will not have substantial
adverse effect on other properties in the vicinity or cause any substantial
damage, hazard or nuisance; and
      (4)   That the use permit for surface mining operations will comply with
the provisions of SMARA and state regulations.
   (B)   Use permit conditions of approval.
      (1)   Use permit. The Planning Commission shall provide that issuance of
the use permit shall be contingent upon acceptance and observance of specified
conditions reasonably related to surface mining operations.
      (2)   Commencing operations. An operator shall commence a surface mining
operation not later than one year from the date of issuance of the operations
permit. Failure to commence operations within the one-year time period renders
the use permit void. This section shall not apply to those surface mining
operations which comply with the provisions of §
19.13.012 relating to notice of non-abandonment of surface mining operations.
(Ord. 1057, § 3 (part), 2023)
§ 19.13.009 RECLAMATION PLANS.
   (A)   Form and content. In addition to all other requirements, including
those set forth in PRC § 2772 and Cal. Code of Regulations, Title 14, § 3502,
the reclamation plan, at a minimum, shall:
      (1)   Indicate the methods to be used to reclaim the land.
      (2)   If phasing is proposed, include a detailed schedule of the sequence
and timing of all stages of the reclamation.
      (3)   Describe the physical condition of the mine site upon the
completion of all reclamation including the proposed uses or potential uses of
the reclaimed site.
      (4)   Contain a map that delineates through the use of cross sections and
elevations the physical characteristics of the land that will exist upon the
conclusion of reclamation, as well as a topographic map showing the location of
the reclaimed land.
      (5)   Describe the manner in which derelict machinery, mining waste and
scraps will be removed from the mine site and how contaminants will be
controlled.
      (6)   Describe the methods to be used to ensure that the mine site will
contain stable waste piles and slopes.
      (7)   Describe how reclamation of the mine site may affect the future use
of the site and surrounding area for mining purposes.
      (8)   Show that the proposed site in its final form will be, to the
extent reasonable and practicable, revegetated for soil stabilization, free of
drainage and erosion problems, coordinated with present and anticipated future
land use, and compatible with the topography and general environment of
surrounding property.
      (9)   Include all of the following, to the extent the required
information of document is not already included in the mining plan and
incorporated by reference in the reclamation plan:
         (a)   A chart identifying the page number, chapter, appendix, or other
specific location in the reclamation plan where content meeting the
requirements, as applicable, of PRC §§ 2772, 2773, and 2773.3 and Article 1
(commencing with CCR § 3500) and Article 9 (commencing with CCR § 3700) of
Subchapter 1 of Chapter 8 of Division 2 of Title 14 of the Cal. Code of
Regulations, is located;
         (b)   The name and address of the operator and the names and addresses
of any persons designated by the operator as an agent for the service of
process;
         (c)   The anticipated quantity and type of materials for which the
surface mining operation is to be conducted;
         (d)   The proposed dates for the initiation and termination of the
surface mining operation;
         (e)   The maximum anticipated depth of the surface mining operation;
         (f)   A reclamation plan map or maps that include the size and legal
description of the lands that will be affected by the surface mining operation,
the property lines, setbacks, reclamation boundaries and topographic details of
the lands, a description of the general geology of the area, a detailed
description of the geology of the area in which surface mining is to be
conducted, the location of all streams, roads, railroads, and utility
facilities within, or adjacent to, the lands, the location of all proposed
access roads to be constructed in conducting the surface mining operation, and
the names and addresses of the owners of all surface interests and mineral
interests in the land. All maps, diagrams, or calculations that require
preparation in accordance with the Professional Engineers Act, the Geologists
and Geophysicist Act, or the Professional Land Surveyors' Act need to be
prepared by a California-licensed professional and shall include their license
number, name, signature, and seal;
         (g)   A description of, and a plan for, the type of surface mining to
be employed, and a time schedule that will provide for the completion of
surface mining on each segment of the mined lands so that reclamation can be
initiated at the earliest possible time on those portions of the mined lands
that will not be subject to further disturbance by the surface mining
operation;
         (h)   A description of the proposed use or potential uses of the mined
lands after reclamation and evidence that all owners of a possessory interest
in the land have been notified of the proposed use or potential uses;
         (i)   A description of the manner in which reclamation, adequate for
the proposed use or potential uses, will be accomplished, including both of the
following:
            1.   A description of the manner in which contaminants will be
controlled, and mining waste will be disposed; and
            2.   A description of the manner in which affected streambed
channels and streambanks will be rehabilitated to a condition minimizing
erosion and sedimentation will occur;
         (j)   An assessment of the effect of implementation of the reclamation
plan on future mining in the area;
         (k)   Any other information required in the County's use permit
application or by SMARA or the SMARA Regulations.
      (10)   An item of information of a document required pursuant to division
(A)(9)(a) that has already been prepared as part of a permit application for
the surface mining operation or as part of an environmental document prepared
for the project pursuant to CEQA may be included in the reclamation plan by
reference, if that item of information or that document is attached to the
reclamation plan when the County submits the reclamation plan to the Supervisor
of Mines for review. To the extent the information, document, or component of a
document referenced in the reclamation plan is used to meet the requirements of
Cal. Public Resources Code, §§ 2773(c) or 2773.3(c), the information, document,
or component of a document shall become part of the reclamation plan and shall
be subject to all other requirements of SMARA and the SMARA Regulations.
      (11)   Indicate, pursuant to Cal. Code of Regulations, Title 14, § 3705
(b), the location and associated details of the required revegetation test plot
or plots, specifying revegetation success criteria, as appropriate.
   (B)   Reclamation plan findings. All decisions on reclamation plans shall be
supported by findings. No reclamation plan shall be approved unless the finding
is made that it meets the minimum applicable requirements of SMARA and this
chapter.
      (1)   The Planning Commission shall approve or conditionally approve a
reclamation plan only if the evidence presented establishes:
         (a)   That the reclamation plan describes the surface mining operation
in adequate detail and complies with SMARA, particularly PRC §§ 2772 and 2773;
         (b)   That the reclamation plan complies with the requirements of
applicable state regulations;
         (c)   That the reclamation plan and potential use of reclaimed land
pursuant to the plan are consistent with this chapter, the County's General
Plan and any applicable resource plan or element;
         (d)   That the Planning Commission reviewed the potential
environmental impacts of the proposed reclamation plan, pursuant to CEQA and
the County's environmental review guidelines, and that all significant adverse
impacts from reclamation of the land following completion of surface mining
operations are mitigated to the maximum extent feasible;
         (e)   That the land and/or resources such as water bodies to be
reclaimed will be restored to a condition that is compatible with and blends
with the surrounding natural environment, topography and other resources, or
that suitable off-site improvements will compensate for related disturbance to
resource values;
         (f)   That the reclamation plan incorporates adequate measures to
restore the mined lands to a naturally appearing or usable condition that is
consistent with the General Plan and applicable resource plan or element and
that is compatible with adjacent land uses;
         (g)   That the Planning Director provided a written response to the
state's Division of Mine Reclamation, describing the disposition of major
issues raised by that Department. Where the County disagrees with the
recommendations and objections raised by the state's Division of Mine
Reclamation, such response shall address, in detail, why specific comments and
suggestions were not accepted.
   (C)   Reclamation plan conditions of approval.
      (1)   The Planning Commission shall provide that approval of the
reclamation plan shall be contingent upon acceptance and observance of
specified conditions reasonably related to surface mining operations. Those
conditions shall include but not be limited to, the conditions specified in
divisions (C)(2) through (6) below.
      (2)   For a surface mining operation located in a watercourse, the
operator shall convey to the County, or its successor in interest, an easement
in perpetuity for flood control purposes which will protect the future mineral
resources from waste. The easement includes, without limitation, the right to
clear the river channel of debris. The interest collected on the financial
assurances may be used to pay for the County's cost of maintaining the
easement.
      (3)   The operator/owner submitting the financial assurances for the
reclamation plan shall sign a statement accepting responsibility for reclaiming
the mined lands in accordance with the approved reclamation plan, which
statement shall be maintained in the Planning Division of the Resource
Management Agency's file for the mining operation. Within 15 days of the sale
or transfer of the operation, the new operator shall submit a signed statement
of responsibility to the Planning Division of the Resource Management Agency
for placement in the permanent record. The most recent Division of Mine
Reclamation approved form shall be used for each statement of responsibility
submitted to the Planning Director.
      (4)   Neither a reclamation plan nor financial assurances shall be
approved for a surface mining operation for gold, silver, copper, or other
metallic minerals, if the operation is located on, or within one mile of, any
Native American sacred site, as defined by PRC § 2773.3(b)(1), and is located
in an area of special concern, unless both of the following criteria are met:
         (a)   The reclamation plan requires that all excavations be backfilled
and graded to do both of the following:
            1.   Achieve the approximate original contours of the mined lands
prior to mining.
            2.   Grade all mined materials that are in excess of the materials
that can be placed back into excavated area, including, but not limited to, all
overburden, spoil piles, and heap leach piles, over the project site to achieve
the approximate original contours of the mined lands prior to mining.
         (b)   The financial assurances are sufficient in amount to provide for
the backfilling and grading required by division (C)(4)(a).
      (5)   In accordance with the performance standards provided at CCR §
3704.1, an open pit excavation created by surface mining activities for the
production of metallic minerals shall be backfilled to achieve not less than
the original surface elevation and the surface graded and contoured consistent
with the original site topography.
      (6)   Surface mining operations are required to obtain agricultural
conservation easements of similar quality to those prime farmland acres, that
are Class 1 soil, converted at a minimum of 1:1 ratio, or as necessary to
assure no net loss of agricultural productivity or value for each acre of
productive agricultural land converted as a result of mining and no returned to
agricultural production.
      (7)   If a surface mining operation results in the permanent conversion
of productive agricultural land, an agricultural conservation easement shall be
required. The agricultural conservation easement shall be of similar quality to
those prime farmland acres, that are Class 1 soil, converted at a minimum of 1:
1 ratio, or as necessary to assure no net loss of agricultural productivity or
value for each acre of productive agricultural land converted.
   (D)   Modification, revocation of reclamation plans.
      (1)   A reclamation plan approved before or after the effective date of
the ordinance codified in this chapter may be modified or the reclamation plan
as a whole, may be revoked, only if the reclamation activities do not comply
with the plan or if there is a compelling public necessity. A compelling public
necessity warranting the revocation of a reclamation plan may exist where the
reclamation activities constitute a public nuisance, or where the plan itself
is inadequate under the Act or this chapter. The Planning Division of the
Resource Management Agency shall monitor the reclamation activities and
reclamation plans annually or periodically as necessary, in accordance with
this division.
      (2)   The procedure to modify and/or revoke a reclamation plan shall be
the same as provided in §
19.13.022.
   (E)   Amendments.
      (1)   An operator may submit amendments to an approved reclamation plan,
detailing proposed changes to the plan to the Planning Division of the Resource
Management Agency, at any time in accordance with the provisions of §
19.13.009. Under no circumstances shall any deviation from the approved use
permit or reclamation plan be undertaken until the required amendment is
approved by the County. The County shall approve such amendments in accordance
with the procedures for approval of reclamation plans described in this
chapter. An approved amendment to a reclamation plan shall not be considered an
alteration or expansion per se of an approved use permit or of a legal non-
conforming surface mining operation.
      (2)   The County shall review the application for an amended use permit
or reclamation plan to determine whether the requested change or expansion
constitutes a substantial deviation, as defined in §
19.13.002 of this chapter, based on the following factors:
         (a)   A substantial increase in the disturbance of a surface area or
in the maximum depth of mining;
         (b)   A substantial extension of the termination date of the mining
operation as set out in the approved reclamation plan;
         (c)   Changes that would substantially affect the approved end use of
the site as established in the reclamation plan;
         (d)   The consistency of any proposed change to the operation with the
previously adopted environmental determinations;
         (e)   Any other changes that the Planning Director deems substantial
deviations as defined in this chapter.
(Ord. 1057, § 3 (part), 2023)
§ 19.13.010 FINANCIAL ASSURANCES.
   (A)   Financial assurances.
      (1)   Any person conducting a surface mining operation, or who has
conducted a surface mining operation subsequent to January 1, 1976, shall
provide to the County's Planning Division of the Resource Management Agency
financial assurances to ensure that reclamation is performed in accordance with
the surface mining operation's approved reclamation plan. The amount of the
financial assurance shall be adequate to ensure that the County or state can
reclaim the site pursuant to that approved plan. The mine operator shall enter
into a written agreement and post accompanying security for financial
assurances to insure that the County or state can cause the reclamation of the
disturbed portion of the site in accordance with the approved plan.
      (2)   To ensure that reclamation will proceed in accordance with the
approved reclamation plan, the County shall require, as a condition of
approval, security which will be released upon satisfactory performance. The
applicant may post security in the form of cash, a surety bond, trust fund,
irrevocable letter of credit from an accredited financial institution or other
method acceptable to the County and the State Mining and Geology Board as
specified in state regulations, and which the County reasonably determines are
adequate to perform reclamation in accordance with the surface mining
operation's approved reclamation plan. Financial assurances shall be made
payable to the County and the state's Division of Mine Reclamation. To ensure
liquidity and availability of the assurance, the first $25,000 of security
shall be posted in cash.
      (3)   Financial assurances shall ensure compliance with elements of the
reclamation plan, including, but not limited to, revegetation and landscaping
requirements, restoration of aquatic or wildlife habitat, restoration of water
bodies and water quality, slope stability and erosion and drainage control,
disposal of hazardous materials and other measures, if necessary.
      (4)   The operator shall base the amount of the financial assurances upon
the estimated costs of reclamation for the years or phases stipulated in the
approved reclamation plan, including any maintenance of reclaimed areas as may
be required, subject to adjustment for the actual amount required to reclaim
lands disturbed by surface mining activities occurring since January 1, 1976,
and the actual amount required to reclaim new lands to be disturbed by surface
mining activities in the upcoming year. A California registered professional
engineer and/or other similarly licensed and qualified professionals retained
by the operator and approved by the Planning Director shall prepare the cost
estimates based on an analysis of physical activities necessary to implement
the approved reclamation plan, the unit costs for each of these activities, the
number of units of each of these activities and the actual administrative
costs. Financial assurances to guarantee revegetation, restoration of water
bodies, restoration of aquatic or wildlife habitat and any other applicable
element of the approved reclamation plan shall be based upon cost estimates
that include, but may not be limited to, labor, equipment, materials,
mobilization of equipment, administration and a reasonable profit by a
commercial operator other than the mine operator or landowner. A contingency
factor of 10% shall be added to the cost of financial assurances.
      (5)   The mineral owner and owner of the surface estate, if legally
entitled to do so, shall allow access to the property on which the mining
operation is located to any governmental agency or the agency of any company
providing financial assurances in connection with the reclamation plan and
expending those financial assurances for reclamation, in order that reclamation
may be carried out by the governmental agency or company, in accordance with
the reclamation plan.
   (B)   Initial financial assurance cost estimates. Following approval of a
new or amended reclamation plan, the initial FACE shall be reviewed and
approved pursuant to PRC § 2773.4.
      (1)   Prior to approving the financial assurance cost estimate for a new
reclamation plan or adjustments to the financial assurance cost estimate based
on an amendment to a reclamation plan, the County shall submit the financial
assurance cost estimate to the Supervisor for review.
      (2)   The lead agency shall provide the Supervisor with a determination
that the financial assurance cost estimate submitted pursuant to division (B)
(1) is adequate, complete, and consistent with PRC § 2773.1.
      (3)   All documentation submitted to the Supervisor pursuant to this
subdivision shall be submitted at one time.
      (4)   No later than 15 days after receiving a financial assurance cost
estimate, the Supervisor shall notify the County and the operator if the
submission is incomplete. An incomplete submissions is one that does not meet
the content requirement of PRC § 2773.1, and the Board's financial assurance
guidelines adopted pursuant to PRC § 2773.1(f). The Supervisor's notice shall
specifically identify all aspects of the submission that are incomplete. The
Supervisor's time to review the FACE shall commence upon the receipt of a
submission that contains the aspects identified in the Supervisor's notice to
the County.
      (5)   (a)   The Supervisor shall have 45 days from the date of receipt of
a complete FACE to prepare written comments if the Supervisor chooses.
         (b)   The County shall evaluate written comments received from the
Supervisor relating to the FACE within a reasonable amount of time. The County
shall prepare a written response to the Supervisor's comments describing the
disposition of the major issues raised by the Supervisor's comment.
      (6)   The County shall submit its proposed response to the Supervisor at
least 30 days prior to approval of the FACE. The County's response shall
include either of the following:
         (a)   A description of how the County proposes to adopt the
Supervisor's comments to the FACE.
         (b)   A detailed description of the reasons why the County proposes to
not adopt the Supervisor's comments.
      (7)   Copies of any written comments received, and responses prepared by
the County shall be forwarded to the operator.
      (8)   (a)   If the County, in its written response to the Supervisor's
comments, proposes to not adopt the Supervisor's comments relating to the FACE,
the Supervisor, within 15 days of receipt of the lead agency's written
response, may request in writing a consultation with the County to discuss the
Supervisor's comments and the County's response. The request shall include an
invitation to the operator to participate in the consultation. The consultation
may be conducted in person, electronically, telephonically, or by any means
convenient to the parties.
         (b)   If the Supervisor requests a consultation pursuant to this
division, the County shall not approve the FACE until after consulting with the
Supervisor. The consultation shall occur not later than 30 days after the
Supervisor's request unless an alternate timeframe is mutually agreed upon by
the Supervisor, County, and operator.
      (9)   (a)   The County shall give the Supervisor at least 30 days' notice
of the time, place, and date of the hearing at which the FACE is scheduled to
be approved by the County. If no hearing is required by this Chapter, local
ordinance, or other state law, then the County shall provide 30 days' notice to
the Supervisor that it intends to approve the FACE.
         (b)   The County shall send to the Supervisor its final response to
the Supervisor's comments within 30 days following its approval of the
financial assurance cost estimate, during which time the Division of Mine
Reclamation retains all of its powers, duties, and authority pursuant to this
chapter.
   (C)   Annual financial assurance cost estimates.
      (1)   The Planning Director shall adjust annually the amount of financial
assurances required of a surface mining operation to account for new lands
disturbed by surface mining operations, inflation and any final reclamation of
lands accomplished in accordance with the approved reclamation plan. The
financial assurances shall include estimates regarding the cost of reclamation
for existing conditions and anticipated activities during the upcoming year,
except that the operator may not claim credit for reclamation scheduled for
completion during the coming year.
      (2)   The operator shall submit an annual financial assurance cost
estimate (FACE) to the Planning Director each year for review and approval
within 30 days of completion of an annual inspection under §
19.13.019 herein. The financial assurance shall cover the cost of reclaiming
existing disturbed areas and the cost of activities anticipated for the next
calendar year, including any required interim reclamation. If revisions to the
financial assurances are not required, the operator shall explain, in writing,
why revisions are not required.
      (3)   In projecting the costs of financial assurances, it shall be
assumed without prejudice or insinuation that the surface mining operation
could be abandoned by the operator, requiring the County or state's Division of
Mine Reclamation to contract with a third-party commercial company for
reclamation of the site. Accordingly, the cost estimate shall reflect fees
charged by commercial operator, other than the mine operator, to perform
reclamation activities in the locality.
      (4)   Within 60 days of receiving an annual financial assurance cost
estimate, the Planning Director shall deny the financial assurance cost
estimate or shall submit the financial assurance cost estimate, together with
any documentation received supporting the amount of the cost estimate, to the
Supervisor for review.
      (5)   The Planning Director may deny the financial assurance cost
estimate on the basis that the financial assurance cost estimate is inadequate.
The Planning Director shall specify the reasons for that determination.
      (6)   An operator whose financial assurance cost estimate is denied shall
have 15 days to appeal that denial to the State Mining and Geology Board
pursuant to PRC § 2770(e) and 14 CCR § 3681 or to provide the Planning Director
with a revised financial assurance cost estimate incorporating the suggested
changes for approval by the Planning Director.
      (7)   When the financial assurance cost estimate is submitted to the
Supervisor for review, the Planning Director shall also provide the Supervisor
with a determination that the annual financial assurance cost estimate is
adequate, complete, and consistent with SMARA and state regulations. The
Planning Director shall submit all required documentation to the Supervisor at
one time. Within 30 days of receiving any written comments on the annual
financial assurance cost estimate from the Supervisor, the Planning Director
shall evaluate those comments and provide the Supervisor and the operator with
a proposed response. The proposed response shall be submitted to the Supervisor
at least 30 days prior to the County's approval of the annual financial
assurance cost estimate and shall either provide a description of how the
County proposes to adopt the Supervisor's comments, or a detailed description
of the reasons why the County proposes not to adopt the Supervisor's comments.
      (8)   If the County proposes not to adopt the Supervisor's comments
concerning the financial assurance cost estimate, within 15 days of receipt of
the County's written response, the Supervisor may request in writing
consultation with the County. If the Supervisor timely requests such
consultation, the County shall not approve the annual financial assurance cost
estimate until after consulting with the Supervisor. Such consultation shall
occur not later than 30 days after the Supervisor's request, unless an
alternative timeframe is mutually agreed upon by the Supervisor, Planning
Director, and operator.
      (9)   Within 60 days of receiving the Supervisor's written comments, or
of consultation pursuant to the preceding division, whichever is later, or the
due date of the Supervisor's written comments if none are received, the County
shall approve or deny the operator's financial assurance cost estimate.
      (10)   The County shall give the Supervisor at least 30 days notice of
the time, place, and date of the hearing at which the annual financial
assurance cost estimate is scheduled to be approved by the County. If no
hearing is requested, the County shall provide 30 days notice to the Supervisor
that it intends to approve the annual financial assurance cost estimate.
      (11)   Within 30 days of the County's approval of the annual financial
assurance cost estimate, the County shall send to the Supervisor the County's
final response to the Supervisor's comments.
      (12)   The Supervisor may appeal the County's approval of a financial
assurance cost estimate to the State Mining and Geology Board if the Supervisor
has commented pursuant to PRC § 2773.4 that the financial assurance cost
estimate is inadequate.
      (13)   The Planning Director shall send to the operator copies of any
written comments received and all responses prepared by the County relating to
the annual financial assurance cost estimate.
      (14)   Within 30 days of the County's approval of the financial assurance
cost estimate, the operator shall provide the Planning Director and the
Supervisor with an appropriate financial assurance mechanism.
         (a)   Within 15 days of receiving a financial assurance mechanism, the
Planning Director and the Supervisor shall review the financial assurance
mechanism to determine if the type of mechanism, including the release
instructions, meets the requirements of SMARA and this chapter.
         (b)   The Planning Director shall return to the operator any financial
assurance mechanism determined to be noncompliant with SMARA or this chapter,
with instructions on how to correct the type of financial assurance mechanism
or the financial assurance mechanism's release instructions.
      (15)   If the Planning Commission, following a public hearing, determines
that the operator is financially incapable of completing reclamation in
accordance with its approved reclamation plan or has abandoned its surface
mining operation without completing reclamation, the Planning Director shall:
         (a)   Notify the operator, within ten days of making the
determination, by personal service or certified mail that the County intends to
take appropriate action to forfeit the financial assurance and specify the
reasons for so doing.
         (b)   Proceed to take appropriate action to require forfeiture of the
financial assurance.
         (c)   Use the proceeds from the forfeited financial assurance to
conduct and complete reclamation in accordance with the approved reclamation
plan. If the surface mining operation cannot be reclaimed in accordance with
its approved reclamation plan, or the financial assurances are inadequate to
reclaim it in accordance with its approved reclamation plan, the County may use
forfeited financial assurances to reclaim or remediate mining disturbances as
appropriate for the site conditions as determined by the County and the
Supervisor. The operator shall be responsible for the costs of conducting and
completing reclamation in accordance with the approved reclamation plan, or an
approved remediation plan developed pursuant to this subsection, that are in
excess of the proceeds from the forfeited financial assurance.
      (16)   Beginning on the date of determination of financial incapacity or
abandonment, the County shall provide annual status reports on the progress of
reclamation to the Supervisor and the State Mining and Geology Board pursuant
to PRC § 2773.1, until reclamation is complete in accordance with the approved
reclamation plan.
      (17)   The financial assurances shall remain in effect for the duration
of the surface mining operation and any additional period until reclamation is
completed (including any maintenance required). Written concurrence of the
Resource Management Agency and the Department of Conservation that reclamation
has been completed in accordance with the approved reclamation plan shall be
forwarded to the operator and the institution(s) providing or holding the
financial assurance mechanism(s).
   (D)   Transfer of ownership. If a surface mining operation is sold or
ownership is transferred to another person, the existing financial assurance
mechanism shall remain ln force and shall not be released by the County and
Department of Conservation until new financial assurance mechanisms are secured
from the new owner and have been approved by the Resource Management Agency.
Within 90 days of the sale or transfer of a surface mining operation, the new
operator shall submit an appropriate financial assurance mechanism.
(Ord. 1057, § 3 (part), 2023)
§ 19.13.011 EXISTING RECLAMATION PLANS FINDINGS.
   (A)   Generally. The Board of Supervisors finds that any reclamation plans
approved prior to the effective date of this chapter which are inadequate or
incomplete create a danger of flooding, erosion, air, water and noise
pollution, destruction of wildlife habitat, and impairment of the aesthetic
environment. These dangers in turn threaten the health and safety of persons as
well as the existence and security of public and private property.
Consequently, the Board of Supervisors declares that inadequate or incomplete
reclamation plans are a public nuisance. The Board of Supervisors further
declares that reclamation plans are inadequate or incomplete if they fail to
contain all information required by the applicable state statutes or
regulations or by this chapter, or if they fail to provide adequate security to
guarantee performance therewith.
   (B)   Security to guarantee performance of reclamation plans. To ensure the
performance of a reclamation plan approved prior to the effective date of the
ordinance codified in this chapter so as to prevent or eliminate a public
nuisance, operators of all surface mining operations with reclamation plans
approved prior to the effective date of the ordinance codified in this chapter
shall enter into agreements with the County to guarantee performance of the
reclamation plans. The agreements shall be governed by the requirements of §
19.13.009.
(Ord. 1057, § 3 (part), 2023)
§ 19.13.012 INTERIM MANAGEMENT PLANS.
   (A)   Abandonment ends right to operate. No surface mining operation whether
existing before or after the effective date of the ordinance codified in this
chapter, with or without a permit, shall have the right to continue if the
operator abandons the surface mining operation.
   (B)   Interim management plan. However, there shall be no determination of
abandonment if an operator submits an interim management plan as specified in
this section.
      (1)   Within 90 days of a surface mining operation becoming idle, the
operator shall submit to the Planning Division of the Resource Management
Agency a proposed interim management plan (IMP). The proposed IMP shall fully
comply with the requirements of SMARA, including but not limited to, all use
permit and reclamation plan conditions, and shall provide measures the operator
will implement during its idle status to maintain the site in a stable
condition and in compliance with this chapter, taking into consideration public
health and safety. The proposed IMP shall be processed as an amendment to the
reclamation plan in accordance with §
19.13.009 of this chapter. IMPs shall not be considered a project for the
purposes of environmental review.
      (2)   Financial assurances for idle operations shall be maintained, as
though the operation was active, or as otherwise approved through the idle
mine's IMP.
      (3)   Within 45 days of receipt of the proposed IMP, the Resource
Management Agency shall review the IMP in accordance with this chapter.
         (a)   If the Planning Director finds that the proposed IMP satisfies
all applicable requirements, the County shall submit the IMP, including a
revised IMP, to the Supervisor for review and certify to the Supervisor that
the IMP is a complete submission and compiles with this chapter, SMARA, and
state regulations.
         (b)   If the Planning Director finds deficiencies in the proposed IMP,
the County shall notify the operator in writing of the deficiencies in the IMP.
The operator shall have 30 days, or a longer period mutually agreed upon by the
County and the operator, to submit a revised IMP.
      (4)   After receipt of the proposed IMP, the Supervisor shall have 30
days to prepare written comments on the IMP, if he or she elects to do so.
      (5)   The County shall review and evaluate written comments received from
the Supervisor relating to the IMP within a reasonable amount of time.
      (6)   The County shall prepare a written response to the Supervisor's
comments received describing the disposition of the major issues raised by the
comments. The County shall submit its response to the Supervisor and the
operator at least 30 days prior to the intended approval of the IMP. The
County's response shall include either of the following:
         (a)   A description of how the County proposes to adopt the
Supervisor's comments to the IMP.
         (b)   A detailed description of the reasons why the County proposes
not to adopt the Supervisor's comments.
      (7)   The County shall approve or deny approval of the proposed IMP
within 60 days of receipt of the Supervisor's comments or within 90 days of
submitting the IMP to the Supervisor if no comments are received from the
Supervisor.
      (8)   Where the Supervisor has commented, the County shall give the
Supervisor at least 30 days’ written notice of the time, place, and date of the
hearing at which the IMP is scheduled to be approved by the County, or, if no
hearing is required by this chapter, SMARA, or other law shall provide 30 days’
written notice to the Supervisor that the County intends to approve the new
IMP.
      (9)   Within 30 days following the approval of the IMP, the County shall
provide the Supervisor notice of the approval and a copy of the approved IMP.
      (10)   If the Planning Commission denies the revised IMP, the operator
may appeal that action to the Board of Supervisors, which shall schedule a
public hearing within 45 days of the filing of the appeal or a longer period
mutually agreed upon by the operator and the Board of Supervisors.
      (11)   Unless review of an IMP is pending before the County or an appeal
is pending before the Board of Supervisors, a surface mining operation that
remains idle for over one year after becoming idle, as defined in PRC § 2727.11
without obtaining approval of an interim management plan shall be considered
abandoned and the operator shall commence and complete reclamation in
accordance with the approved reclamation plan.
      (12)   The IMP may remain in effect for a period not to exceed five
years, at which time the Planning Commission shall do one of the following:
         (a)   Renew the IMP for another period not to exceed five years, which
may be renewed for one additional five-year renewal period at the expiration of
the first five-year renewal period, if the County finds that the surface mining
operator has complied fully with the IMP; or
         (b)   Require the surface mining operator to commence reclamation in
accordance with its approved reclamation plan.
(Ord. 1057, § 3 (part), 2023)
§ 19.13.013 DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS FOR SURFACE MINING OPERATION.
   The following are standard conditions for surface mining operations, which
shall apply to all surface mining operations unless specifically modified by
the Planning Commission.
   (A)   Appearance.
      (1)   Surface mining shall be operated in a neat and orderly manner, free
from junk, trash or unnecessary debris. Buildings shall be maintained in a
sound condition, in good repair and appearance. Weeds shall be cut as
frequently as necessary to eliminate fire hazards. Salvageable equipment stored
in a non-operating condition shall be suitably screened or garaged.
      (2)   If the surface mining operation is located on a hillside and within
a County designated Scenic Corridor, the County shall use design review to
protect the hillsides and ridgelines that are a unique scenic resource in the
County. Development within 100 vertical feet of any ridgeline shall be
prohibited unless there are no site development alternatives.
      (3)   The County shall review use permit applications to ensure a
reasonable and attractive appearance from the highway concurrent with a
harmonious relationship with the existing landscape and shall require
development that is determined not to be in harmonious relationship with the
existing landscape to be screened from view through planting or other forms of
visual buffers consistent with division (I) below.
   (B)   Setbacks.
      (1)   Cut slopes shall be a minimum of 25 feet distant from adjoining
property lines, except where adjoining property is being mined, and a minimum
of 40 feet from any right-of-way of any public street or official plan line or
future width line of a public road. The Planning Commission may establish
greater setbacks when it deems them to be appropriate, based on factors such as
site conditions or proposed mining operations.
      (2)   When surface mining occurs in a canyon area which abuts an urban
area, or the ridgeline is visible from the valley floor, the top of the
uppermost cut area shall be as shown in an approved reclamation plan.
   (C)   Noise and vibration.
      (1)   Noise and ground vibration shall be reduced to a minimum. To
achieve this, loading points shall not be located closer than 50 feet from any
property line, unless otherwise permitted by the Planning Commission.
      (2)   Noise attenuation measures shall be installed where necessary to
reduce noise levels in order to comply with noise standards of the County
General Plan.
      (3)   Screening and rock crushing shall be noted in the permit
application and subject to Planning Commission conditioning.
   (D)   Explosive use. Use of explosives in operations shall be noted in the
permit application and subject to Planning Commission conditioning. When the
Planning Commission finds that the use of explosives (blasting) is the only
logical method of loosening natural material for the purpose of removal, the
method shall be noted in the conditions of approval.
   (E)   Traffic safety and roads.
      (1)   The site shall provide adequate space for parking, queuing and
loading of trucks, as well as packing of employee vehicles to minimize the
traffic problem to residents on neighboring streets.
      (2)   Haul roads shall be designed to stay away from property lines,
residential areas, and schools, when feasible. Additionally, haul roads shall
avoid highly erodible areas and hazardous areas (e.g., faults, flood plains,
landslide areas, fire hazard areas) to the extent feasible. If a hazard is
present within a planned haul road alignment, the planned alignment shall be
modified to the extent feasible to avoid the hazard.
      (3)   The use permit shall specify the haul routes on public roads.
Should any truck owned or operated by a surface mining operation creates a
hazard to life or property, the Planning Director may, on the basis of specific
facts that warrant that the surface mining operation being found to be a
nuisance, set a revocation hearing before the Planning Commission.
      (4)   The use permit shall specify the number and location of access
points, subject to approval by the Planning Commission. If required,
acceleration and deceleration lanes which meet County standards shall be
provided.
      (5)   The use permit shall specify an approved surface for the access
road for a distance of not less than 100 feet from the public road right-of-way
line into the area of operation in order to minimize the deposit of dirt and
gravel from trucks onto the public roads. During hauling operations, the
operator shall remove any spillage of materials on public roads promptly and
completely.
      (6)   Haul roads on hillsides shall be located and designed consistent
with County General Plan policy as follows:
         (a)   New haul roads on hillsides shall minimize visual impact by
blending with natural landforms and by following the natural contours of the
land as much as possible. Driveway access in hillside areas shall be
consolidated where possible and limited to areas where adequate sight distance
is available for all approaches.
         (b)   New haul roads on hillsides shall not exceed a 15% grade. Grades
of up to 20% may be allowed for distances of up to 400 feet. Grades over 15%
shall have all weather surfaces, such as asphalt or concrete.
         (c)   New haul roads on hillsides and ridges that are visually
prominent from County or state roadways shall be designed and constructed to
minimize scarring.
   (F)   Dust control. Surface mining operations shall be conducted so as to
reduce the occurrence of dust to a minimum in compliance with the regulations
of the Monterey Bay Unified Air Pollution Control District currently in effect
or subsequently adopted which are hereby incorporated by reference. Unless
otherwise specified by the Planning Commission, operations shall be conducted
in accordance with the following minimum standards.
      (1)   The operator shall maintain access roads in a reasonably dust-free
condition by paving, oiling, watering or chemically treating the access roads
from public thoroughfares to a point not less than 100 feet from the point at
which haulage vehicles are being loaded.
      (2)   The operator shall maintain areas used for the movement of haulage
vehicles and mobile equipment closer than 100 feet from the public road to the
point at which haulage vehicles are being loaded by sprinkling the areas with
oil or water or chemically treating such areas as frequently as necessary to
reduce the stirring of dust to the minimum level possible.
      (3)   The operator shall conduct activities likely to raise dust,
including but not limited to, dozing, digging, scraping and loading of
excavated materials, in a manner which reduces dust to the minimum level
possible. Sprinkling shall be done where necessary to comply with this
standard.
      (4)   The operator shall sprinkle stockpiles and screen operations or any
part of the facilities as necessary to reduce dust.
   (G)   Hours and days of operation.
      (1)   The use permit shall limit the hours of operation for the surface
mining operation to daylight hours, excluding Sundays or holidays. However, the
Planning Commission may alter this standard where conditions of density and
proximity would warrant liberalization or restriction.
      (2)   In cases of public emergency, the Planning Director may temporarily
waive restrictions regarding hours and days of operation. In cases of private
emergency, the Planning Director may authorize reasonable and necessary repairs
to the equipment and limited operations required to restore normal operations
by issuing a temporary permit for periods up to and including 56 hours, but not
to exceed one week total, allowing the temporary waiver of restrictions
regarding hours and days of operation.
   (H)   Fencing and posting. The Planning Commission shall require those
portions of an excavation area where public safety requires fencing. The
Planning Commission may require posting in other portions of the excavation
area.
      (1)   Where excavation is authorized to proceed in stages, the operator
may limit fencing to the area already excavated. The operator shall provide
adequate fencing to exclude unauthorized dumping.
      (2)   The Planning Commission may require the enclosure of all or a
portion of an excavation by an approved fence either along the property line or
the periphery of the excavation where deemed necessary for public safety by the
Planning Commission. The fence shall not be closer than ten feet to the top
edge of any cut slope. All fences shall have suitable gates at access points,
which shall be securely locked during hours and days of non-operation.
      (3)   Fencing shall be a four-strand barbed-wire unless otherwise
provided by the Planning Commission.
      (4)   The operator shall post signs conspicuously along the periphery of
the property in such a manner and at such intervals as will give reasonable
notice to passers-by of the matter contained in such notice. The signs shall
state by letters no less than four inches tall "WARNING: COMMERCIAL SURFACE
MINING OPERATION CONDUCTED ON THESE LANDS" both in English and Spanish.
   (I)   Screening.
      (1)   Operators shall provide screening for surface mining operations to
secure the use and enjoyment of nearby properties.
      (2)   Acceptable methods of screening shall include, but not be limited
to, installation of berms, fences, plantings of suitable shrubs and trees,
which shall be placed and maintained in order to minimize visibility of cut
slopes, mining operations and equipment from public view.
      (3)   Operators may place and maintain screening along the streets and
exterior property lines or the perimeter of the visible portions of the site
being operated, so long as the screening satisfies the objectives of this
division.
   (J)   Health and sanitation. The operator shall maintain any body of water
created during operations within the mining operation in such a manner as to
provide for mosquito control and to prevent the creation of health hazards or
public nuisances.
   (K)   Protection of streams and water bearing aquifers.
      (1)   Operators shall conduct surface mining in a manner so as to keep
adjacent streams, percolation ponds or water bearing strata free from
undesirable obstruction, silting, contamination or pollution of any kind. The
objective is to prevent discharges, which would result in higher concentrations
of silt than existed in off-site water prior to mining operation. The
regulations and permitting requirements of the Regional Quality Control Board,
the California Department of Fish and Wildlife that are currently in effect or
subsequently adopted are incorporated by reference.
      (2)   The operator will minimize the removal of vegetation and overburden
in advance of surface mining.
      (3)   The operator shall manage stockpiles of overburden and minerals to
minimize water and wind erosion. Stockpiling in the river channel is forbidden.
      (4)   The operator shall construct and manage erosion control facilities
including, but not limited to detention basins, settling ponds (desilting and
energy dissipaters), ditches, streambank stabilizers and dikes so as to control
erosion.
      (5)   Where operations are in stream channels or are located in areas
that are sufficiently proximate to stream channels so as to allow such
operations to directly affect stream channels, all operations shall conform to
the operation plan approved by the Planning Commission. The operation plan
shall require the operator to do the following:
         (a)   Maintain the location of the approved channel;
         (b)   Avoid increasing the gradient of the stream;
         (c)   Finish side slope of the lawful channel no later than October of
each year;
         (d)   Remove all debris and vegetation growth from the center channel
by October 1 of each year;
         (e)   Mitigate erosion adjacent to the mining operation both upstream
and downstream of the mining operation (e.g., by installing blocking walls,
riprap and the like); and
         (f)   Maintain, wherever practicable, a filter strip of an appropriate
width and consisting of undisturbed soil, with riparian vegetation, or its
equivalent, between areas significantly disturbed by surface mining operations
and any watercourse, lake, bay, estuary, marsh or other water body.
      (6)   If required by the County, developers of new or expanded mining
operations shall prepare a hydro logic report to evaluate the up- and down-
stream effects of the proposed operation.
      (7)   Developers of new or expanding mine operations shall prepare a
sedimentation budget.
      (8)   The County may adopt from time to time plans to mitigate the
effects of mining on the river. The operator shall comply with such plans.
      (9)   New and expanded sand and gravel mining operations in the
floodplain of the San Benito River or Tres Pinos Creek shall ensure that the
structural integrity and hydraulic capacity of bridges, pipelines, and other
structures in the river are not affected by the construction and/or operation
of said operation.
   (L)   Permits. Applicants shall comply with applicable laws.
   (M)   Silt prevention. The Planning Commission may restrict mining
operations in the natural or artificially enlarged channel of any river, creek,
stream or natural or artificial drainage channel when the mining may result ln
the deposit of silt therein.
   (N)   Groundwater protection. The operator shall ensure that surface mining
operations which may penetrate near or into usable water-bearing strata
including, without limitation, wells, shall not reduce the transmissivity or
area through which water may flow, unless the operator first provides approved
equivalent transmissivity or area elsewhere, and shall not subject the
groundwater basin or sub-basin to significant pollution or contamination.
   (O)   Concurrent reclamation. The operator shall conduct reclamation in
stages compatible with, and concurrent with, extraction activities. The County
shall ensure that reclamation is achieved in a manner that protects public
safety and enables land to be put to subsequent beneficial use. The operator
may reclaim the land for agricultural, residential, commercial, industrial,
open space and recreational or any other appropriate use.
   (P)   Overburden. The salvage of existing topsoil is an important factor in
revegetation and thus is a crucial part of the reclamation process. Topsoil is
a valuable asset and the operator shall segregate it for future use in
revegetation. The Planning Commission may require the operator to conduct a
soil survey to allow the Planning Commission to determine the appropriate use
of topsoil in post-mining rehabilitation and to determine whether the types of
vegetation being proposed in the reclamation plan are appropriate.
   (Q)   Final slope gradient.
      (1)   When designing the proposed steepness and treatment of the mined
lands' final slopes, the operator shall consider the physical properties of the
slope material, landscaping requirements and other factors. The maximum stable
slope angle might range from 90 degrees in a sound limestone, igneous rock or
similar hardrock to less than 20 degrees in highly expansive clay, as
determined by an appropriately licensed person. In all cases, reclamation plans
shall specify slope angles flatter than the critical gradient for the type of
material involved, as determined by an appropriately licensed person.
      (2)   The operator shall eliminate dangerous contours caused by
operations from the land surface of the excavated area and shall fill mine
shaft openings or otherwise secure them in a manner so as to eliminate
dangerous conditions.
      (3)   The operator shall ensure that the slopes of excavations made to a
water-producing depth shall not be steeper than one and one-half feet
horizontal to one foot vertical for areas from five feet above the water line
to the bottom of the excavation below the water line, unless otherwise
specifically permitted.
      (4)   The operator shall prepare an engineering analysis of slope
stability whenever final slopes approach the critical gradient for the type of
material involved. The analysis shall place special emphasis on slope stability
and design when final slope gradient may affect public safety or adjacent
property.
      (5)   Based upon the maximum stable slope angle of the material involved,
the Planning Commission may, at the time of approval or modification of the
reclamation plan, specify the slope of the reclaimed land surface, require
grading or backfilling, and require the elimination of unnatural steps or
benches. The Planning Commission shall take into account the environmental and/
or technological feasibility of any such requirement or specification, but such
considerations may be overridden when the Planning Commission determines that
the public health, safety or welfare require.
   (R)   Erosion and drainage. The operator shall design grading and
revegetation to prevent excessive erosion and to convey surface runoff to
natural drainage courses or interior basins designed for water storage. The
operator may create lakes, ponds, streams or other bodies of water within an
excavation only when authorized by the approved reclamation plan approved. The
operator shall treat final surfaces so as to prevent erosion unless otherwise
specifically permitted by the Planning Commission.
   (S)   Resoiling.
      (1)   When the reclamation plan calls for resoiling, the operator shall
level coarse hard mine waste and cover it with a layer of finer material or
weathered waste and place a soil layer on this prepared surface. The operator
shall remove toxic material. Operators of surface mines that did not salvage
soil during their initial operations shall attempt, where feasible, to upgrade
remaining native materials. The operator shall use soil conditioners, mulches
or imported topsoil where revegetation is part of the reclamation plan and
where such measures appear necessary to ensure successful revegetation. The
operator shall not denude adjacent areas of soil for purposes of reclaiming
areas disturbed by surface mining operations for any such denuded area shall in
turn be reclaimed.
      (2)   The operator shall address reclamation of any area mined to produce
additional materials for backfilling and grading in the reclamation plan.
      (3)   The operator shall address settlement of filled areas in the
reclamation plan. Where probable ultimate site uses include roads, building
sites or other improvements sensitive to settlement, the reclamation plan shall
provide for compaction of the fill materials in conformance with good
engineering practice to avoid excessive settlement.
   (T)   Replanting.
      (1)   Within six months after surfaces have been graded to their final
contours, or within such other time period as is approved by the Planning
Commission, the operator shall take suitable measures to establish vegetation
capable of stabilizing the soil on areas where revegetation is possible, and
rock is not exposed. The Planning Commission shall approve vegetation types and
the operator shall maintain the vegetation until the soil is adequately
stabilized to withstand the elements and shall provide irrigation when
necessary.
      (2)   When the operator proposes to conduct surface mining operations in
stages of a series of benches, the Planning Commission may require the operator
to landscape each bench or group of benches upon completion of excavation on
the particular bench or benches.
      (3)   The operator shall use available research regarding revegetation
methods, the selection of species having good survival characteristics and the
climate of this area. The operator shall use native species wherever
practicable and may use screens and roadside plantings at mines currently in
operation, where the screens and plantings are practicable and desirable.
   (U)   Removal of structures; equipment and stockpiles.
      (1)   The operator shall remove all structures, equipment and stockpiles,
except required fences, from areas disturbed by surface mining operations
excavations six months after termination of operations, or such other time
period as determined by the Planning Commission.
      (2)   Within the same period, the operator shall remove individual sewage
disposal systems in accordance with the County Health Department's
recommendations.
   (V)   Additional standards. The Planning Commission may impose additional
performance standards developed either during environmental review of
individual projects or through the formulation and adoption of countywide
performance standards.
   (W)   Time frame. The operator shall initiate reclamation activities on
those portions of the mined lands that will not be subject to further
disturbance at the earliest possible time. The County may require the operator
to conduct interim reclamation of mined lands that have been disturbed and that
may be disturbed again in future operations. The operator may conduct
reclamation on an annual basis, in stages compatible with continuing
operations, or on completion of all excavation, removal or fill, as approved by
the County. Each phase of reclamation shall be specifically described in the
reclamation plan and shall include:
      (1)   The beginning and expected ending dates for each phase;
      (2)   All reclamation activities required;
      (3)   Criteria for measuring completion of specific reclamation
activities; and
      (4)   Estimated costs for completion of each phase of reclamation.
(Ord. 1057, § 3 (part), 2023)
§ 19.13.014 COUNTY OWNED AND OPERATED BORROW PITS.
   For the purposes of a borrow pit surface mining operation that is owned or
operated by the County solely for use by the County, all of the following shall
apply:
   (A)   (1)   In addition to the requirements of PRC §§ 2772 and 2773, the
County shall include in its reclamation plan maintenance measures that become
effective when the borrow pit surface mining operation is idle. The maintenance
measures shall maintain the site in compliance with this chapter while the
borrow pit surface mining operation is idle.
      (2)   Notwithstanding division (A)(1), the County may obtain an interim
management plan in accordance with §
19.13.012(B) of this chapter.
      (3)   The County shall be exempt from the requirements of §
19.13.012(B)(11) of this chapter, if in compliance with this division.
   (B)   Notwithstanding PRC § 2770(h)(2), an IMP for a borrow pit surface
mining operation may remain in effect until reclamation of the borrow pit
surface mining operation is completed in accordance with the approved
reclamation plan.
   (C)   Notwithstanding PRC § 2774(b), the County may conduct an inspection of
a borrow pit surface mining operation once every two calendar years during a
period when the borrow pit surface mining operation is idle.
(Ord. 1057, § 3 (part), 2023)
§ 19.13.015 LEGAL NON-CONFORMING SURFACE MINING OPERATIONS.
   (A)   Continuance, expansion, and alteration. Subject to the limitations
expressed in this chapter and in SMARA, the operator of a legal non-conforming
surface mining operation may continue the operation without obtaining an
operations permit but the legal non-conforming surface mining operation shall
not be expanded or altered.
   (B)   Reclamation plan. The operator of a legal non-conforming surface
mining operation shall not continue the operation without obtaining an approved
reclamation plan in accordance with the provisions of §§
19.13.007 and
19.13.009.
(Ord. 1057, § 3 (part), 2023)
§ 19.13.016 PUBLIC RECORDS.
   Reclamation plans, reports, applications and other documents submitted
pursuant to this chapter are public records, unless the operator demonstrates
to the satisfaction of the Planning Director that the release of the
information, or part thereof, would reveal production, reserves or rate of
depletion entitled to protection as proprietary information. The Planning
Director shall identify the proprietary information as a separate part of the
application and shall make the information available only to the Supervisor of
Mine Reclamation (Supervisor) or to persons authorized in writing by the
operator and by the owner. However, the Planning Director will comply with any
order to release such information issued by a court of competent jurisdiction.
(Ord. 1057, § 3 (part), 2023)
§ 19.13.017 ANNUAL REPORT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Surface mining operators shall forward an annual surface mining report
to the state's Department of Conservation and to the County's Planning Division
of the Resource Management Agency on a date established by the state's
Department of Conservation, upon forms furnished by the State Mining and
Geology Board. New mining operations shall file an initial surface mining
report and any applicable filing fees with the state's Department of
Conservation within 30 days of permit approval or before commencement of
operations, whichever is sooner.
   (B)   The operator shall forward any applicable fees, together with a copy
of the annual inspection report, to the state's Department of Conservation at
the time of filing the annual surface mining report.
(Ord. 1057, § 3 (part), 2023)
§ 19.13.018 PERIODIC INSPECTION.
   (A)   As a condition of approval of either the use permit, reclamation plan,
or interim management plan (IMP) the Planning Commission shall require all
surface mining operations to be inspected in intervals of no more than 12
months to evaluate compliance with the approved use permit, reclamation plan,
IMP, financial assurances and state regulations.
      (1)   Annually by July 1, mine operators shall submit to the Planning
Division of the Resource Management Agency the documentation requested by said
agency to support it conducting the required annual mine inspection pursuant to
PRC § 2774(b).
      (2)   Annually by July 1, mine operators shall submit an operator's
report pursuant to PRC § 2207(b). The operator may request an inspection date
on its annual operator's report. If the operator fails to request an inspection
date, or if the County is unable to cause the inspection of the surface mining
operation on the date requested by the operators, the County shall provide the
operator with a minimum of five days' written notice of a pending inspection,
or within any lesser period agreed to by the operator. New surface mining
operations shall submit an initial report prior to commencement of operations.
      (3)   Annually by July 1, the County shall submit to the Supervisor of
the Division of Mine Reclamation for each active or idle surface mining
operation within the County's jurisdiction the following information:
         (a)   A copy of any permit or reclamation plan amendment, as
applicable;
         (b)   A statement that there have been no changes made during the
previous year, as applicable;
         (c)   The date of each surface mining operation's last inspection;
         (d)   The date of each surface mining operation's last financial
assurance review.
      (4)   A reasonable fee for such inspections shall be set from time to
time by ordinance of the Board of Supervisors, and the remittance thereof shall
be deemed a condition of either the use permit or the reclamation plan.
   (B)   Surface mining operation inspections shall be conducted using forms
approved by the state's Mining and Geology Board that include the professional
licensing and disciplinary information of the person who conducted the
inspection. Within 90 days of conducting the inspection, the Planning Director
shall provide a copy of the completed surface mining inspection report and any
supporting documentation to the mine operator. Also, within 90 days of
conducting the inspection, the Planning Director shall provide a notice of
completion of inspection to the Supervisor. The notice shall contain a
statement regarding the surface mining operation's compliance with SMARA and a
copy of the completed inspection form, and shall specify, as applicable, all of
the following:
      (1)   Aspects of the surface mining operation, if any, that were found to
be inconsistent with SMARA but were corrected before the submission of the
inspection form to the Supervisor.
      (2)   Aspects of the surface mining operation, if any, that were found to
be inconsistent with SMARA but were not corrected before the submission of the
inspection form to the Supervisor.
      (3)   A statement describing the County's intended response to any
aspects of the surface mining operation found to be inconsistent with SMARA but
were not corrected before the submission of the inspection form to the
Supervisor.
      (4)   A statement as to whether the surface mining operation is out of
compliance with an order to comply or stipulated order to comply issued by the
County.
   (C)   (1)   All surface mining operation inspections shall be conducted by a
qualified County inspector, including contractors and contract employees, or a
California state-licensed person as specified in PRC § 2774(b)(1).
      (2)   Inspectors shall have no financial interest in the surface mining
operation being inspected and shall not have been employed by the surface
mining operation in any capacity during the previous 12 months, except that a
qualified County inspector may inspect surface mining operations conducted by
the County.
      (3)   Inspectors shall keep on file with the County and the Division of
Mine Reclamation a current certificate of completion of an inspection workshop
pursuant to PRC § 2774(d)(3). An inspector shall attend a workshop no later
than five years after the date of his or her most recent certificate.
California state licensed persons who only provide an evaluation of a
particular aspect or condition of a surface mining operation requiring
licensure may, but are not required to, obtain a certificate of completion of
an inspection workshop conducted by the Division of Mine Reclamation.
(Ord. 1057, § 3 (part), 2023)
§ 19.13.019 APPEALS.
   Any person aggrieved by an act or determination of the Planning Director or
the Planning Director's staff made under this chapter may appeal the decision
to the Planning Commission. Any person aggrieved by an act or determination of
the Planning Commission made under this chapter may appeal the decision to the
Board of Supervisors. The appeal shall be governed by the requirements of Title
25 of this code.
(Ord. 1057, § 3 (part), 2023)
§ 19.13.020 INSURANCE.
   All surface mining operations shall continually carry a public liability
insurance policy in the amount of at least $1,000,000 per person and at least
$4,000,000 per incident and property damage in the amount of at least $100,000.
The County shall be named as additional insured in the policy and shall be
furnished a certificate of insurance. The policy of insurance shall provide for
a 30-day notice to the County of cancellation by carrier in the event of
cancellation of the policy.
(Ord. 1057, § 3 (part), 2023)
§ 19.13.021 STATE AND FEDERAL LAW.
   This chapter shall be interpreted to be consistent with all provisions of
state and federal law applicable to surface mining operations in the County,
whether such exists on the date the ordinance codified in this chapter becomes
operative or subsequently thereafter. Within 30 days of amendment of this
chapter, or adoption of a new mining ordinance, the County shall provide
written notice of the complete text of the resulting mining ordinance to the
State Mining and Geology Board (Board), to enable the Board to review the
ordinance in accordance with PRC §§ 2774.3, 2774.5(a) and 2774.5(b).
(Ord. 1057, § 3 (part), 2023)
§ 19.13.022 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Violations.
      (1)   If, after conducting the periodic inspection required by §
19.13.019 or otherwise confirmed by an inspection of the mining operation, the
Planning Director finds that the surface mining operation is not in compliance
with the approved use permit, the approved reclamation plan, any conditions of
approval imposed by the County, the provisions of this chapter, or SMARA, the
Planning Director may issue a notice of that violation to the operator. The
notice of violation shall be sent to the operator by personal service or
certified mail. If the violation pertains to the approved reclamation plan, a
copy of the notice shall also be sent to the Supervisor, if issued by the
County. Any such notice of violation shall include both of the following: (a) A
description of the violation. (b) Actions the operator shall take to correct
the violation.
      (2)   If the Planning Director determines that the time to correct the
noticed violation will exceed 30 days, the County and the operator may enter
into a stipulated order to comply, with notice sent to the Supervisor for
violations that pertain to the approved reclamation plan. Such a stipulated
order shall include a schedule and time for compliance that the Planning
Director has determined is reasonable after taking into account the actions and
legal processes required to correct the violation.
   (B)   Orders to comply.
      (1)   If, within 30 days of being served with a notice of violation, the
operator does not comply with it or commit to enter into a stipulated order,
the Planning Director may issue an order to comply. Any such order shall be
sent by personal service or certified mail. The County shall, at the time of
issuing the order, provide a copy of the notice to the Supervisor if the order
involves a violation related to the approved reclamation plan. An order to
comply shall specify all of the following: (a) Which aspects of the surface
mine's activities or operations are inconsistent with the approved use permit,
approved reclamation plan, permit conditions, the provisions of this chapter,
or SMARA. (b) The actions and legal processes required to correct the alleged
violation. (c) A time for compliance that the Planning Director determines is
reasonable, given the seriousness of the alleged violation and any good faith
efforts to comply with applicable requirements. If the operator does not have
an approved reclamation plan, the order to comply may order the operator to
immediately cease all further mining activities.
      (2)   An order to comply shall take effect 30 days following the service
of the order to comply unless within those 30 days the operator appeals the
order to comply and requests a hearing before the Planning Commission.
         (a)   Such appeal shall be noticed and heard at a public hearing
within 45 days of the filing of the appeal or a longer period as may be
mutually agreed upon by the operator and the Planning Director. At such
hearing, the Planning Commission shall hear all relevant testimony from
interested persons and, after closing the public hearing, shall affirm, modify
or set aside the order to comply issued by the Planning Director.
         (b)   If the surface mining operation fails to comply with the order
affirmed or modified by the Planning Commission, the Planning Commission may
revoke or suspend the operator's permit after a public hearing, and all of the
procedural requirements and rights of appeal as set forth therein shall govern
the hearing.
   (C)   Penalties.
      (1)   For an operator who violates or fails to comply with the order to
comply, who fails to submit an annual report, or who fails to pay annual fees,
the Planning Director shall impose an administrative penalty of not more than
$5,000 per day, assessed from the original date of noncompliance or from the
date of the inspection when the violation was identified, at the discretion of
the Planning Director.
         (a)   In determining the amount of the administrative penalty, the
Planning Director shall take into consideration the nature, circumstances,
extent, and gravity of the violation or violations, any prior history of
violations, the degree of culpability, economic savings, if any, resulting from
the violation, and any other matters justice may require.
         (b)   The Planning Director's order setting administrative penalties
shall become effective upon issuance of the order, and payment shall be made to
the County within 30 days, unless the operator petitions the Board of
Supervisors as provided in division (C)(2)(d), below. An order shall be served
by personal service or by certified mail upon the operator.
      (2)   An operator may file a petition with the Board of Supervisors for
review of the Planning Director's order imposing an administrative penalty. If
no such petition is filed within 30 days of the order, the order is final and
is not subject to review by any court of agency.
         (a)   A petition for review can only be accepted for filing if it is
timely and is accompanied by the required petition fee in accordance with the
current fee schedule adopted by the Board of Supervisors.
         (b)   If the petition for review meets the standards set forth in this
subsection, the Clerk of the Board shall set the matter for a public hearing
before the Board of Supervisors to review the Planning Director's order
imposing an administrative penalty. The operator shall be notified by either
personal service or certified mail of the time, date, and place for the public
hearing at which the Board of Supervisors shall review the Planning Director's
order imposing an administrative penalty. In reviewing said order, the record
shall consist of the record before the Planning Director and any other relevant
evidence which, in the judgement of the Board of Supervisors, should be
considered to effectuate and implement the policies of SMARA and this chapter.
         (c)   The Board of Supervisors may affirm, modify, or set aside, in
whole or in part, by its own order, any order of the Planning Director imposing
an administrative penalty. Any order of the Board of Supervisors shall be
served by personal service or certified mail upon the operator.
         (d)   The Board of Supervisor's order shall become effective upon its
issuance unless the operator files a timely petition for writ of mandate in the
superior court. Such a petition shall be timely only if filed within 30 days of
the Board's issuance of the order. Payment of any administrative penalty that
is specified in the Board of Supervisor's order shall be made to the County
within 30 days of service of the order whether or not a petition has been
filed; however, the payment shall be held in an interest-bearing impound
account pending resolution of a petition for writ of mandate if one has been
flied. If no timely petition is filed, the Board of Supervisor’s order shall
not be subject to review by any court or agency.
      (3)   Whether or not administrative penalties have been imposed, the
Planning Commission may revoke or suspend the operator's permit following a
public hearing. The operator may appeal the decision to revoke or suspend the
permit to the Board of Supervisors. Such an appeal shall be noticed and heard
at a public hearing within 45 days of the filing of the appeal or a longer
period as may be mutually agreed upon by the operator and the Planning
Director. At such hearing, the Board of Supervisors shall hear all relevant
testimony from interested persons and, after closing the public hearing, shall
affirm, modify, or set aside the decision to revoke or suspend the permit made
by the Planning Commission.
      (4)   If the Planning Director determines that a surface mining operation
is not in compliance with SMARA such that the surface mining operation presents
an imminent and substantial endangerment to the public health or the
environment, the Planning Director may seek an order from the Superior Court of
the County of San Benito or other court of competent jurisdiction enjoining
that operation.
(Ord. 1057, § 3 (part), 2023)
§ 19.13.023 MINERAL RESOURCE PROTECTION.
   (A)   The County encourages the development of surface mining operations in
compatible areas before encroachment into areas with conflicting land uses.
Areas that have been classified by the state's Department of Conservation's
Division of Mines and Geology or designated by the state's Mining and Geology
Board, as containing mineral resources, as well as existing surface mining
operations remain in compliance with the provisions of this chapter, shall be
protected from intrusion by incompatible land uses that may impede or preclude
mineral extraction or processing, to the extent possible for consistency with
the County General Plan.
   (B)   In accordance with PRC § 2762, the County will update the County
General Plan and resource maps to reflect mineral information (classification
and/or designation reports) within 12 months of receipt of such information
from the state's Mining and Geology Board. Land use decisions within the County
shall be guided by information provided on the location of identified mineral
resources of regional significance. The County shall consider and encourage
conservation and potential development of identified mineral resource areas.
   (C)   The County shall apply "MR" zoning to selected mineral resource areas
determined by the Board of Supervisors to require a special level of protection
as an additional method of avoiding land use conflicts between mineral
extraction and other incompatible uses with the following criteria:
      (1)   Lands classified and designated as MRZ-2 or SZ by the California
Geological Survey and by the State Mining and Geology Board qualify for the
"MR" zoning designation and/or;
      (2)   Evidence of the location, extent, depth, and quality of mineral
resources shall be submitted as part of the MR overlay zoning application. The
material shall be reviewed by a geologist selected by the County for accuracy.
The County shall deny MR overlay zoning requests that do not provide evidence
of significant mineral resources on site.
   (D)   The County shall require a notice explaining the location of important
mineral resources to be recorded on any parcel within one-half mile of an MRZ 2
or SZ designation. The County shall require, as a condition of approval for any
development project within an area classified or designated as containing
mineral resources, that the applicant record on the property title a notice
identifying important mineral resources. Prior to approving a use that would
otherwise be incompatible with mineral resource protection, the County may
impose conditions of approval on encroaching development projects to minimize
potential conflicts.
   (E)   Prior to permitting a use which would threaten the potential to
extract minerals in the area, the County shall prepare a statement specifying
its reasons for permitting the proposed use, in accordance with PRC § 2762.
   (F)   The use of voluntary conservation easements is allowed to protect
significant resources on mineral lands and contiguous properties.
(Ord. 1057, § 3 (part), 2023)
§ 19.13.024 RENEWABLE ENERGY GENERATION FACILITIES.
   (A)   The construction and operation of a renewable energy generation
facility on disturbed mined lands, including all foundations and other
installations, facilities, buildings, accessory structures, and other
improvements to the land that are related ta the generation of energy, shall be
considered an interim use for the purposes of this division and shall not
require an amendment to an approved reclamation plan if all of the following
criteria are met:
      (1)   The renewable energy generation facility will not adversely affect
the completion of reclamation in accordance with the surface mining operation's
approved reclamation plan.
      (2)   The permit conditions of the renewable energy generation facility
address and eliminate any potentially adverse impacts on the surface mining
operation.
      (3)   The operating permit for the renewable energy generation facility
includes both of the following:
         (a)   An approved closure and decommissioning plan that will not
affect the manner in which reclamation will be achieved pursuant to this
chapter.
         (b)   A separate financial assurance mechanism that the County
determines to be sufficient to perform the removal of the renewable energy
generation facility.
      (4)   The closure and decommissioning of the renewable energy generation
facility will occur prior to the later of the following:
         (a)   The expiration of the use permit for the surface mining
operation.
         (b)   The completion of reclamation in accordance with the surface
mining operation's approved reclamation plan.
      (5)   All required permits for the construction and related land
improvements have been approved by a public agency in accordance with the
applicable provisions of state law and locally adopted plans and ordinances,
including, but not limited to, the California Environmental Quality Act
(Division 13 [commencing with § 21000]).
   (B)   (1)   Prior to approving an operating permit for a renewable energy
generation facility subject to this section, the County shall submit the
operating permit application with all the associated maps and plans to the
Supervisor for review.
      (2)   The Supervisor shall have 30 days from the receipt of the
application with associated documents to prepare written comments if the
Supervisor chooses.
      (3)   The Supervisor may provide comments relating to whether the
renewable energy generation facility meets the criteria set forth in division
(A)(1) to (A)(4).
      (4)   The County shall prepare a written response to the Supervisor's
comments and submit its response to the Supervisor at least 30 days prior to
the approval of the operating permit for the renewable energy generation
facility.
   (C)   Copies of all approved permits and associated documents shall be
submitted to the County and the Supervisor as an addendum to the approved
reclamation plan no less than 30 days prior to the commencement of land
improvements associated with the renewable energy generation facility.
   (D)   For purposes of this section, "renewable energy generation facility"
means a solar photovoltaic, solar thermal under 50 megawatts, or wind energy
generation facility.
(Ord. 1057, § 3 (part), 2023)
CHAPTER 19.15: FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
Section
Article I. Statutory Authorization, Findings of Fact, Purpose and Methods
   
19.15.001   Statutory authorization
   
19.15.002   Findings of fact
   
19.15.003   Statement of purpose
   
19.15.004   Methods of reducing flood losses
Article II. Definitions
   
19.15.020   Definitions
Article III. General Provisions
   
19.15.035   Lands to which this chapter applies
   
19.15.036   Basis for establishing the areas of special flood hazard
   
19.15.037   Compliance
   
19.15.038   Enforcement
   
19.15.039   Abrogation and greater restrictions
   
19.15.040   Interpretation
   
19.15.041   Warning and disclaimer of liability
Article IV. Administration
   
19.15.055   Establishment of development permit
   
19.15.056   Designation of the Floodplain Administrator
   
19.15.057   Duties and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator
Article V. Provision for Flood Hazard Reduction
   
19.15.070   Standards of construction
   
19.15.071   Standards for utilities
   
19.15.072   Standards for subdivisions
   
19.15.073   Standards for manufactured homes
   
19.15.074   Standards for recreational vehicles
   
19.15.075   Floodways
Article VI. Variance Procedure
   
19.15.090   Nature of variances
   
19.15.091   Appeal Board
   
19.15.092   Conditions for variances
Cross-reference:
   Grading, Drainage and Erosion Control, see
Chapter 19.17 of this code
ARTICLE I. STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION, FINDINGS OF FACT, PURPOSE AND METHODS
§ 19.15.001 STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION.
   The legislature of the State of California has, in Cal. Gov’t Code §§ 65302,
65560 and 65800, conferred upon local government units authority to adopt
regulations designed to promote the public health, safety and general welfare
of its citizenry.
(1966 Code, § 6E-1) (Ord. 598, § 1.1)
§ 19.15.002 FINDINGS OF FACT.
   (A)   The flood hazard areas of the county are subject to periodic
inundation which results in loss of life and property, health and safety
hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental services, extraordinary public
expenditures for flood protection and relief, and impairment of the tax base,
all of which adversely affect the public health, safety and general welfare.
   (B)   (1)   These flood losses are caused by the cumulative effect of
obstructions in areas of special flood hazards which increase flood heights and
velocities, and when inadequately anchored, damage uses in other areas.
      (2)   Uses that are inadequately floodproofed, elevated or otherwise
protected from flood damage also contribute to the flood loss.
(1966 Code, § 6E-2) (Ord. 598, § 1.2)
§ 19.15.003 STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the public health, safety and
general welfare, and to minimize public and private losses due to flood
conditions in specific areas by provisions designed:
   (A)   To protect human life and health;
   (B)   To minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control
projects;
   (C)   To minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
   (D)   To minimize prolonged business interruptions;
   (E)   To minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as water
and gas mains, electric, telephone and sewer lines, streets and bridges located
in areas of special flood hazard;
   (F)   To help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the second use and
development of areas of special flood hazard so as to minimize future flood
blight areas;
   (G)   To insure that potential buyers are notified that property is in an
area of flood hazard; and
   (H)   To insure that those who occupy the areas of special flood hazard
assume responsibility for their actions.
(1966 Code, § 6E-3) (Ord. 598, § 1.3)
§ 19.15.004 METHODS OF REDUCING FLOOD LOSSES.
   In order to accomplish its purposes, this chapter includes methods and
provisions for:
   (A)   Restricting or prohibiting uses which are dangerous to health, safety
and property due to water or erosion hazards, or which result in damaging
increases in erosion or flood heights or velocities;
   (B)   Requiring that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities which
serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
   (C)   Controlling the alternation of natural floodplains, stream channels
and natural protective barriers, which help accommodate or channel flood
waters;
   (D)   Controlling fill, grading, dredging and other development which may
increase flood damage; and
   (E)   Preventing or regulating the construction of flood barriers which will
unnaturally divert flood waters or which may increase flood hazards in other
areas.
(1966 Code, § 6E-4) (Ord. 598, § 1.4)
ARTICLE II. DEFINITIONS
§ 19.15.020 DEFINITIONS.
   Unless specifically defined below, words or phrases used in this chapter
shall be interpreted so as to give them the meaning they have in common usage
and to give this chapter its most reasonable application.
   ACCESSORY USE. A use which is incidental and subordinate to the principal
use of the parcel of land on which it is located.
   ALLUVIAL FAN. A geomorphologic feature characterized by a cone or fan-shaped
deposit of boulders, gravel and fine sediments that have been eroded from
mountain slopes, transported by flood flows and then deposited on the valley
floors, and which is subject to flash flooding, high velocity flows, debris
flows, erosion, sediment movement and deposition and channel migration.
   APEX. The point of highest elevation on an alluvial fan, which on
undisturbed fans is generally the point where the major stream that formed the
fan emerges from the mountain front.
   APPEAL. A request for a review of the Floodplain Administrator’s
interpretation of any provision of this chapter or a request for a variance.
   AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING. A designated AO or AH zone on the flood insurance
rate map (FIRM). The base flood depths range from one to three feet; a clearly
defined channel does not exist; the path of flooding is unpredictable and
indeterminate; and velocity flow may be evident. The flooding is characterized
by ponding or sheet flow.
   AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD-RELATED EROSION HAZARD. The land within a community
which is most likely to be subject to severe flood-related erosion losses. The
area may be designated as zone E on the flood insurance rate map (FIRM).
   AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD. See SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA.
   BACKFILL. The placement of fill material within a specified depression, hole
or excavation pit below the surrounding adjacent ground level as a means of
improving flood water conveyance or to restore the land to the natural contours
existing prior to excavation.
   BASE FLOOD. The flood having a 1% chance of being equalled or exceeded in
any given year (also called the “100-year flood”).
   BASEMENT. Any area of the building having its floor subgrade (below ground
level) on all sides.
   BREAKAWAY WALLS. Any type of walls, whether solid or lattice, and whether
constructed of concrete, masonry, wood, metal, plastic or any other suitable
building material which is not part of the structural support of the building
and which is designed to break away under abnormally high tides or wave action
without causing any damage to the structural integrity of the building on which
they are used or any buildings to which they might be carried by flood waters.
A BREAKAWAY WALL shall have a safe design loading resistance of not less than
ten and no more than 20 pounds per square foot. Use of breakaway walls must be
certified by a registered engineer or architect and shall meet the following
conditions:
      (1)   Breakaway wall collapse shall result from a water load less than
that which would occur during the base flood; and
      (2)   The elevated portion of the building shall not incur any structural
damage due to the effects of wind and water loads acting simultaneously in the
event of the base flood.
   BUILDING. See STRUCTURE.
   CRITICAL FEATURE. An integral and readily identifiable part of a flood
protection system, without which the flood protection provided by the entire
system would be compromised.
   CURVILINEAR LINE. The border on either a flood hazard boundary map or flood
insurance rate map that delineates the special flood and/or flood-related
erosion hazard areas and consists of a curved or contour line that follows the
topography.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any man-made change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including but not limited to buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations or storage of
equipment or materials.
   ENCROACHMENT. The advance or infringement of uses, plant growth, fill,
excavation, buildings, permanent structures or development into a floodplain
which may impede or alter the flow capacity of a floodplain.
   EROSION. The process of the gradual wearing away of land masses. This peril
is not per se covered under the National Flood Insurance Program.
   EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed before the effective date
of the floodplain management regulations adopted by a community.
   EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. The
preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads).
   FILL. The placement of fill material at a specified location to bring the
ground surface up to a desired elevation.
   FILL MATERIAL. Natural sand, dirt, soil or rock. For the purposes of
floodplain management, FILL MATERIAL may include concrete, cement, soil cement,
brick or similar material as approved on a case-by-case basis.
   FLOOD, FLOODING or FLOOD WATER.
      (1)   A general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation
of normally dry land areas from:
         (a)   The overflow of inland waters; and
         (b)   The unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters
from any source.
      (2)   The collapse or subsidence of land along the shore of a lake or
other body of water as a result of erosion or undermining caused by waves or
currents of water exceeding anticipated cyclical levels or suddenly caused by
an unusually high water level in a natural body of water, accompanied by a
severe storm, or by an unanticipated force of nature, such as flash flood or by
some similarly unusual and unforeseeable event which results in flooding as
defined in division (1)(a) of this definition.
   FLOOD ELEVATION DETERMINATION. A determination by the Administrator of the
water surface elevations of the base flood, that is, the flood level that has a
1% or greater chance of occurrence in any given year.
   FLOOD ELEVATION STUDY. An examination, evaluation and determination of flood
hazards and, if appropriate, corresponding water surface elevations.
   FLOOD HAZARD BOUNDARY MAP. The official map on which the Federal Emergency
Management Agency or Federal Insurance Administration has delineated the areas
of flood hazards.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). The official map on which the Federal
Emergency Management Agency or Federal Insurance Administration has delineated
both the areas of special flood hazards and the risk premium zones applicable
to the community.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY. The official report provided by the Federal Insurance
Administration that includes flood profiles, the flood insurance rate map, the
flood boundary and floodway map and the water surface elevation of the base
flood.
   FLOODPLAIN or FLOOD-PRONE AREA. Any land area susceptible to being inundated
by water from any source (see definition of “flooding”).
   FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR. The individual appointed to administer and enforce
the floodplain management regulations.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT. The operation of an overall program of corrective and
preventive measures for reducing flood damage, including but not limited to
emergency preparedness plans, flood control works and flood-plain management
regulations.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS. Zoning ordinances, subdivision
regulations, building codes, health regulations, special purpose ordinances
(such as floodplain management regulations).
   FLOOD PROTECTION SYSTEM. Those physical structural works for which funds
have been authorized, appropriated, and expended and which have been
constructed specifically to modify flooding in order to reduce the extent of
the area within a community subject to a “special flood hazard” and the extent
of the depths of associated flooding. Such a system typically includes
hurricane tidal barriers, dams, reservoirs, levees dikes. These specialized
flood modifying works are those constructed in confirm with sound engineering
standards.
   FLOODPROOFING. Any combination of structural and non-structural additions,
changes or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate or improved real property, water and sanitary facilities,
structures and their contents.
   FLOOD-RELATED EROSION. The collapse or subsidence of land along the shore of
a lake or other body of water as a result of undermining caused by waves or
currents of water exceeding anticipated cyclical levels or suddenly caused by
an unusually high water level in a body of water, accompanied by a severe
storm, or by an unanticipated force of nature, such as a flash flood or an
abnormal tidal surge, or by some similarly unusual and unforeseeable event
which results in flooding.
   FLOOD-RELATED EROSION AREA or FLOOD-RELATED EROSION PRONE AREA. A land area
adjoining the shore of a lake or other body of water, which due to the
composition of the shoreline or bank and high water levels or wind-driven
currents, is likely to suffer flood-related erosion damage.
   FLOOD-RELATED EROSION AREA MANAGEMENT. The operation of an overall program
of corrective and preventive measures for reducing flood-related erosion
damage, including but not limited to emergency preparedness plans, flood-
related erosion control works and floodplain management regulations.
   FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent land
areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without
cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than one foot. Also
referred to as REGULATORY FLOODWAY.
   FLOODWAY ENCROACHMENT LINES. The lines marking the limits of floodways on
federal, state and local floodplain maps.
   FLOODWAY FRINGE. The areas of a floodplain on either side of the designated
floodway where encroachment may be permitted.
   FRAUD AND VICTIMIZATION. Related to
Article VI of this chapter, the variance granted must not cause fraud on or
victimization of the public. In examining this requirement, the Variance Board
will consider the fact that every newly constructed building adds to government
responsibilities and remains a part of the community for 50 to 100 years.
Buildings that are permitted to be constructed below the base flood elevation
are subject during all those years to increased risk of damage from floods,
while future owners of the property and the community as a whole are subject to
all the costs, inconvenience, danger, and suffering that those increased flood
damages bring. In addition, future owners may purchase the property, unaware
that it is subject to potential flood damage, and can be insured only at very
high flood insurance rates.
   FREEBOARD. A factor of safety usually expressed in feet above a flood level
for purposes of floodplain management. FREEBOARD tends to compensate for the
many unknown factors that could contribute to flood heights greater than the
height calculated for a selected size flood and floodway conditions, such as
wave action, bridge openings and the hydrological effect of urbanization of the
watershed.
   FUNCTIONALLY DEPENDENT USE. A use which cannot perform its intended purpose
unless it is located or carried out in close proximity to water. The term
includes only docking facilities, port facilities that are necessary for the
loading and unloading of cargo or passengers, and ship building and ship repair
facilities, but does not include long-term storage or related manufacturing
facilities.
   HARDSHIP. As related to
Article VI of this chapter, the hardship that would result from a failure to
grant the requested variance. The Variance Board requires that the variance be
exceptional, unusual and peculiar to the property involved. Mere economic or
financial hardship alone is not exceptional. Inconvenience, aesthetic
considerations, physical handicaps, personal preferences or the disapproval of
one’s neighbors likewise cannot, as a rule, qualify as exceptional hardships.
All of these problems can be resolved through other means, without granting a
variance. This is so even if the alternative means are more expensive or
complicated than building with a variance, or if they require the property
owner to put the parcel to a different use than originally intended, or to
build elsewhere.
   HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE. The highest natural elevation of the ground surface
prior to construction next to the proposed walls of a structure.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURE. Any structure that is:
      (1)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a
listing maintained by the Department of Interior) or preliminarily determined
by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the requirements for individual
listing on the National Register;
      (2)   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the
Interior as contributing to the historical significance of a registered
historic district or a district registered historic district;
      (3)   Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places in
states with historic places in states with historic preservation programs which
have been approved by the Secretary of Interior; or
      (4)   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places in
communities with historic preservation programs that have been certified
either:
         (a)   By an approved state program as determined by the Secretary of
the Interior; or
         (b)   Directly by the Secretary of the Interior in states with
approved programs.
   LANDFILL. A permitted location for the disposal, placement or dumping of
garbage, trash, debris, junk or waste material.
   LEVEE. A man-made structure, usually an earthen embankment, designed and
constructed in accordance with sound engineering practices to contain, control
or divert the flow of water so as to provide protection from temporary
flooding.
   LEVEE SYSTEM. A flood protection system which consists of a levee, or
levees, and associated structures, such as closure and drainage devices, which
are constructed and operated in accord with sound engineering practices.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest floor of an enclosed area (including basement). An
unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, usable solely for parking of vehicles,
building access or storage in an area other than a basement area is not
considered a building’s lowest floor; provided, that the enclosure is not built
so as to render the structure in violation of the applicable non-elevation
design requirements of this chapter.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which
is built a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation who attached to the required utilities. The term
MANUFACTURED HOME does not include a “recreational vehicle”.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of
land divided into two or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
   MAP. The flood hazard boundary map (FHBM) or the flood insurance rate map
(FIRM) for a community issued by the Flood Insurance Administration, Federal
Emergency Management Agency.
   MEAN SEA LEVEL. For purposes of the National Flood Insurance Program, the
National Geodetic Vertical Datum (NGVD) of 1929 or other datum, to which base
flood elevations shown on a community’s flood insurance rate map are
referenced.
   MINIMUM NECESSARY. Related to
Article VI of this chapter, the minimum necessary to afford relief to the
applicant of a variance with a minimum deviation from the requirements of this
chapter. In the case of variances to an elevation requirement, this means the
Variance Board need not grant permission for the applicant to build at grade,
for example, or even to whatever elevation the applicant proposes, but only
that level that the Board believes will both provide relief and preserve the
integrity of the local ordinance.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. For floodplain management purposes, structures for which
the “start of construction” commenced on or after the effective date of a
floodplain management regulation adopted by a community and includes any
subsequent improvements to the structures.
   NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after the effective
date of floodplain management regulations adopted by a community.
   OBSTRUCTION. Includes, but is not limited to, any dam, wall, wharf,
embankment, levee, dike, pile, abutment, protection, excavation,
channelization, bridge, conduit, culvert, building, wire, fence, rock, gravel,
refuse, fill, structure, vegetation or other material in, along, across or
projecting into any watercourse which may alter, impede, retard or change the
direction and velocity of the flow of water, or due to its location, its
propensity to snare or collect debris carried by the flow of water or its
likelihood of being carried downstream.
   ONE HUNDRED YEAR FLOOD or 100-YEAR FLOOD. A flood which has a 1% annual
probability of being equaled or exceeded. It is identical to the BASE FLOOD,
which will be the term used throughout this chapter.
   PRINCIPAL STRUCTURE. A structure used for the principal use of the property
as distinguished from an access use.
   PUBLIC SAFETY AND NUISANCES. As related to
Article VI of this chapter, the granting of a variance must not result in
additional threats to public safety or create nuisances. This chapter is
intended to help protect the health, safety, well-being and property of the
local citizens. This is a long-range community effort made up of a combination
of approaches such as adequate drainage systems, warning and evacuation plans,
and keeping new property above the flood levels. These long-term goals can only
be met if exceptions to the requirements of this chapter are kept to a bare
minimum.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle which is:
      (1)   Built on a single chassis;
      (2)   Four hundred square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projection;
      (3)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light
duty truck; and
      (4)   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but at
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel or seasonal use.
   REGULATORY FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or other watercourse and the
adjacent land areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood
without cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than a
designated height.
   RIVERINE. Relating to, formed by, or resembling a river (including
tributaries), stream, brook and the like.
   SHEET FLOW AREA. See AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING.
   SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA). An area having special flood or flood-
related erosion hazards, and shown on a FIRM as zone A, AO, Al-A30, AE, A99 or
all.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION. Includes substantial improvement and other proposed
new development and means the date the building permit was issued, provided the
actual start of construction, repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition,
placement or other improvement was within 180 days from the date of the permit.
The ACTUAL START means either the first placement of permanent construction of
a structure on a site, such as the pouring of slab or footings, the
installation of piles, the construction of columns, or any work beyond the
stage of excavation; or the placement of a manufacture home on a foundation.
Permanent construction does not include land preparation, such as clearing,
grading and filling; nor does it include the installation of streets and/or
walkways; nor does it include excavation for a basement, footings, piers or
foundations or the erection of temporary forms; nor does it include the
installation on the property of accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds
not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main structure. For a
substantial improvement, the ACTUAL START OF CONSTRUCTION means the first
alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor or other structural part of a building,
whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of the building.
   STRUCTURE. A walled and roofed building, including a gas or liquid storage
tank, that is principally above ground, as well as a manufactured home.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby
the cost of restoring the structure to its before damaged condition would equal
or exceed 50% of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition or
other proposed new development of a structure, the cost of which equals or
exceeds 50% of the market value of the structure before the “start of
construction” of the improvement. This term includes structures which have
incurred “substantial damage”, regardless of the actual repair work performed.
The term does not, however, include either:
      (1)   Any project for improvement of a structure to correct existing
violations or state or local health, sanitary or safety code specifications
which have been identified by the local code enforcement official and which are
the minimum necessary to assure safe living conditions; or
      (2)   Any alteration of a “historic structure”, provided that the
alteration will not preclude the structure’s continued designation as a
“historic structure”.
   VARIANCE. A grant of relief from the requirements of this chapter which
permits construction in a manner that would otherwise be prohibited by this
chapter.
   WATER SURFACE ELEVATION. The height, in relation to the National Geodetic
Vertical Datum (NGVD) of 1929, (or other datum, where specified) of floods of
various magnitudes and frequencies in the floodplains of coastal or riverine
areas.
   WATERCOURSE. A lake, river, creek, stream, wash, arroyo, channel or other
topographic feature on or over which waters flow at least periodically.
WATERCOURSE includes specifically designated areas in which substantial flood
damage may occur.
(1966 Code, § 6E-5) (Ord. 598, § 2.0)
ARTICLE III. GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 19.15.035 LANDS TO WHICH THIS CHAPTER APPLIES.
   This chapter shall apply all areas of special flood hazards and areas of
flood-related erosion hazards within the jurisdiction of the county.
(1966 Code, § 6E-6) (Ord. 598, § 3.1)
§ 19.15.036 BASIS FOR ESTABLISHING THE AREAS OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD.
   (A)   The areas of special flood hazard identified by the Federal Insurance
Administration (FIA) of the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) in the
flood insurance study dated March 8,1990, and the flood insurance rate map
(FIRM), dated March 8, 1990, and all subsequent amendments and/or revisions,
are hereby adopted by reference and declared to be a part of this chapter.
   (B)   This flood insurance study and attendant mapping is the minimum area
of applicability of this chapter and may be supplemented by studies for other
areas which allow implementation of this chapter and which are recommended to
the Board of Supervisors by the Floodplain Administrator. The study and flood
insurance rate maps (FIRMs) are on file at San Benito County Building and
Planning Department located at 3220 Southside Road, Hollister, California.
(1966 Code, § 6E-7) (Ord. 598, § 3.2)
§ 19.15.037 COMPLIANCE.
   No structure or land shall hereafter be constructed, located, extended,
converted or altered without full compliance with the term of this chapter and
other applicable regulations. Violation of the requirements (including
violations of conditions and safeguards established in connection with
conditions) shall constitute a misdemeanor. Nothing herein shall prevent the
Board of Supervisors from taking such lawful action as is necessary to prevent
or remedy any violation.
(1966 Code, § 6E-8) (Ord. 598, § 3.3)
§ 19.15.038 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Violation; criminal penalties. Any person violating any provisions of
this chapter is guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
punished as provided in
Chapter 1.03 of the county code.
   (B)   Violation; public nuisance. Any violation of this chapter is unlawful
and a public nuisance and shall be abated, eliminated and enjoined as provided
in
Chapter 1.03 of the county code.
   (C)   Remedies; cumulative. Except as otherwise provided by law, the
remedies in this chapter are cumulative and not exclusive. Nothing in this
chapter is intended or shall be deemed or construed, to limit or impart the
ability of the county, or any of its officers, agents or employees, to take any
administrative or judicial action, otherwise authorized by law, to abate any
public nuisance.
Chapter 1.03 of the county code is hereby incorporated by reference as though
its provisions were fully set forth herein.
   (D)   Enforcement. The provisions of this chapter shall be enforced by the
Floodplain Administrator or his or her designee.
(1966 Code, § 6E-9) (Ord. 598, § 3.4)
§ 19.15.039 ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   This chapter is not intended to repeal, abrogate or impair any existing
easements, covenants or deed restrictions. However, where this chapter and
another ordinance, easement, covenant or deed restriction conflict or overlap,
whichever imposes the more stringent restrictions shall prevail.
(1966 Code, § 6E-10) (Ord. 598, § 3.5)
§ 19.15.040 INTERPRETATION.
   In the interpretation and application of this chapter, all provisions shall
be:
   (A)   Considered as minimum requirements;
   (B)   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
   (C)   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under
state statutes.
(1966 Code, § 6E-11) (Ord. 598, § 3.6)
§ 19.15.041 WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on scientific and engineering
considerations. Larger floods can and will occur on rare occasions. Flood
heights may be increased by man-made or natural causes. This chapter does not
imply that land outside the areas of special flood hazards, areas of flood-
related erosion hazards or uses permitted within the areas will be free from
flooding or flood damages. This chapter shall not create liability on the part
of Board of Supervisors, any officer or employee thereof, or the Federal
Insurance Administration, Federal Emergency Management Agency, for any flood
damages that result from reliance on this chapter or any administrative
decision lawfully made thereunder.
(1966 Code, § 6E-12) (Ord. 598, § 3.7)
ARTICLE IV. ADMINISTRATION
§ 19.15.055 ESTABLISHMENT OF DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   (A)   A building permit shall be obtained before any construction or other
development begins within any area of special flood hazard, areas of flood-
related erosion established in §
19.15.036. Application for a building permit shall be made on forms furnished
by the Floodplain Administrator and may include, but not be limited to: plans
in duplicate drawn to scale showing the nature, location, dimensions and
elevation of the area in question; existing or proposed structures, fill,
storage of materials, drainage facilities; and the location of the foregoing.
   (B)   Specifically, the following information is required:
      (1)   Proposed elevation in relation to mean sea level, of the lowest
floor (including basement) of all structures. In zone AO elevation of highest
adjacent grade and proposed elevation of lowest floor of all structures.
      (2)   Proposed elevation in relation to mean sea level to which any
structure will be floodproofed;
      (3)   All appropriate certifications listed in §
19.15.057 of this chapter; and
      (4)   Description of the extent to which any watercourse will be altered
or relocated as a result of proposed development.
(1966 Code, § 6E-13) (Ord. 598, § 4.1)
§ 19.15.056 DESIGNATION OF THE FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR.
   The Planning Director is hereby appointed to administer and implement this
chapter by granting or denying building permits in accord with its provisions.
(1966 Code, § 6E-14) (Ord. 598, § 4.2)
§ 19.15.057 DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR.
   The duties and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator shall
include, but not be limited to:
   (A)   Building permit review.
      (1)   Review all building permits to determine that the permit
requirements of this chapter have been satisfied;
      (2)   All other required state and federal permits have been obtained;
      (3)   The site is reasonably safe from flooding; and
      (4)   The proposed development does not adversely affect the carrying
capacity of areas where base flood elevations have been determined but a
floodway has not been designated. For purposes of this chapter, “adversely
affects” means that the cumulative effect of the proposed development when
combined with all other existing and anticipated development will increase the
water surface elevation of the base flood more than one foot at any point.
   (B)   Use of other base flood data. When base flood elevation data has not
been provided in accordance with §
19.15.036, the Floodplain Administrator shall obtain, review and reasonably
utilize any base flood elevation and floodway data available from a federal or
state agency, or other source, in order to administer Article V. Any such
information shall be submitted to the Board of Supervisors for adoption.
   (C)   Relocation or alteration. Whenever a watercourse is to be altered or
relocated:
      (1)   Notify adjacent communities and the California Department of Water
Resources prior to the alternation or relocation of a watercourse, and submit
evidence of the notification to the Federal Insurance Administration, Federal
Emergency Management Agency;
      (2)   Require that the flood carrying capacity of the altered or
relocated portion of the watercourse is maintained.
   (D)   Public inspection. Obtain and maintain for public inspection and make
available as needed:
      (1)   The certification required by §
19.15.070(C)(1) (floor elevations);
      (2)   The certification required by §
19.15.070(C)(2) (elevations in areas of shallow flooding);
      (3)   The certification required by §
19.15.070(C)(3) (elevation or floodproofing of non- residential structures);
      (4)   The certification required by §
19.15.070(C)(4) (wet floodproofmg standard);
      (5)   The certification of elevation required by §
19.15.072(B) (subdivision standards); and
      (6)   The certification required by §
19.15.075(A) (floodway encroachments);
   (E)   Interpretations. Make interpretations where needed, as to the exact
location of the boundaries of the areas of special flood hazards, and areas of
flood-related erosion hazards, where there appears to be a conflict between a
mapped boundary and actual field conditions. The person contesting the location
of the boundary shall be given a reasonable opportunity to appeal the
interpretation as provided in
Article VI.
   (F)   Remedies. Take action to remedy violations of this chapter as
specified in §
19.15.037 herein.
(1966 Code, § 6E-15) (Ord. 598, § 4.3(F))
ARTICLE V. PROVISIONS FOR FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION
§ 19.15.070 STANDARDS OF CONSTRUCTION.
   In all areas of special flood hazards, the following standards are required.
   (A)   Anchoring.
      (1)   All new construction, substantial improvements and other proposed
new development shall be adequately anchored to prevent flotation, collapse or
lateral movement of the structure resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic
loads, including the effects of buoyancy.
      (2)   All manufactured homes shall meet the anchoring standards of §
19.15.073.
   (B)   Construction materials and methods.
      (1)   All new construction, substantial improvement and other proposed
new development shall be constructed with materials and utility equipment
resistant to flood damage.
      (2)   All new construction, substantial improvement and other proposed
new development shall be constructed using methods and practices that minimize
flood damage.
      (3)   All new construction, substantial improvement and other proposed
new development shall be constructed with electrical, heating, ventilation,
plumbing and air conditioning equipment and other service facilities that are
designed and/or located so as to prevent water from entering or accumulating
within the components during conditions of flooding.
      (4)   Require within zones AH or AO that adequate drainage paths around
structures on slopes guide flood waters around and away from proposed
structures.
   (C)   Elevation and floodproofing.
      (1)   New construction, substantial improvement and other proposed new
development shall have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated to or
above the base flood elevation. Non- residential structures may meet the
standards in division (C)(3) below. Upon the completion of the structure the
elevation of the lowest floor including basement shall be certified by a
registered professional engineer or surveyor or verified by the Community
Building Inspector to be properly elevated. The certification or verification
shall be provided to the Floodplain Administrator.
      (2)   New construction, substantial improvement and other proposed new
development in zone AO shall have the lowest floor, including basement,
elevated above the highest adjacent grade at least as high as the depth number
specified in feet on the FIRM, or at least two feet if no depth number is
specified. Non-residential structures may meet the standards in division (C)(3)
below. Upon the completion of the structure the elevation of the lowest floor
including basement shall be certified by a registered professional engineer or
surveyor, or verified by the county’s Building Official to be properly
elevated. The certification or verification shall be provided to the Floodplain
Coordinator.
      (3)   Non-residential construction shall either be elevated to conform
with divisions (C)(1) or (2) above or together with attendant utility and
sanitary facilities:
         (a)   Be floodproofed so that below the base flood level the structure
is watertight with walls substantially impermeable to the passage of water;
         (b)   Have structural components capable of resisting hydrostatic and
hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy; and
         (c)   Be certified by a registered professional engineer or architect
that the standards of this division are satisfied. The certifications shall be
provided to the Floodplain Administrator.
      (4)   Require, for all new construction, substantial improvement and
other proposed new development, that fully enclosed areas below the lowest
floor that are usable solely for parking of vehicles, building access or
storage in an area other than a basement and which are subject to flooding
shall be designed to automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces on
exterior walls by allowing for the entry and exit of floodwater. Designs for
meeting this requirement must either be certified by a registered professional
engineer or architect or meet or exceed the following minimum criteria:
         (a)   Either a minimum of two openings having a total net area of not
less than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject to
flooding shall be provided, the bottom of all openings shall be no higher than
one foot above (openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves or other
coverings or devices provided that they permit the automatic entry and exit of
floodwater); or
         (b)   Be certified to comply with a local floodproofing standard
approved by the Federal Insurance Administration, Federal Emergency Management
Agency.
      (5)   Manufactured homes shall also meet the standards in §
19.15.073.
(1966 Code, § 6E-16) (Ord. 598, § 5.1)
§ 19.15.071 STANDARDS FOR UTILITIES.
   (A)   All new and replacement water supply and sanitary sewage systems shall
be designed to minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the
system and discharge from systems into flood waters.
   (B)   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located to avoid impairment to
them or contamination from them during flooding.
   (C)   Other utilities are addressed at §§
19.15.070(B) and
19.15.072(D).
(1966 Code, § 6E-17) (Ord. 598, § 5.2)
§ 19.15.072 STANDARDS FOR SUBDIVISIONS.
   (A)   All preliminary subdivision proposals shall identify the flood hazard
area and the elevation of the base flood.
   (B)   All final subdivision plans will provide the elevation of proposed
structure(s) and pad(s). If the site is filled above the base flood elevation,
the final pad elevation shall be certified by a registered professional
engineer or surveyor and provided to the Floodplain Administrator.
   (C)   All subdivision proposals shall be consistent with the need to
minimize flood damage.
   (D)   All subdivision proposals shall have public utilities and facilities
such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems located and constructed to
minimize flood damage.
   (E)   All subdivisions shall provide adequate drainage to reduce exposure to
flood hazards.
(1966 Code, § 6E-18) (Ord. 598, § 5.3)
§ 19.15.073 STANDARDS FOR MANUFACTURED HOMES.
   (A)   All manufactured homes that are placed or substantially improved
within a special flood hazard area on the community’s flood insurance rate map:
      (1)   Outside of a manufactured home park or subdivision;
      (2)   In a new manufactured home park or subdivision;
      (3)   In an expansion to an existing manufactured home park or
subdivision; and
      (4)   In an existing manufactured home park or subdivision on which a
manufactured home has incurred “substantial damage” as the result of a flood
shall be elevated on a permanent foundation such that the lowest floor of the
manufactured home is elevated to or above the base flood elevation and be
securely anchored to an adequately anchored foundation system to resist
floatation collapse and lateral movement.
   (B)   All manufactured homes to be placed or substantially improved on sites
in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision on the community’s flood
insurance rate map that are not subject to the provisions of division (A) of
this section will be elevated so that either:
      (1)   The lowest floor of the manufactured home is at or above the base
flood elevation; or
      (2)   The manufactured home chassis is supported by reinforced piers or
other foundation elements of at least equivalent strength that are no less than
36 inches in height above grade and be securely anchored to an adequately
anchored foundation system to resist floatation, collapse and lateral movement.
(1966 Code, § 6E-19) (Ord. 598, § 5.4)
§ 19.15.074 STANDARDS FOR RECREATIONAL VEHICLES.
   All recreational vehicles placed on sites within a floodplain shown on the
community’s flood insurance rate map will either:
   (A)   Be on the site for fewer than 180 consecutive days;
   (B)   Be fully licensed and ready for highway use; or
   (C)   Meet the permit requirements of Article IV of this chapter and the
elevation and anchoring requirements for manufactured homes in §
19.15.073.
(1966 Code, § 6E-20) (Ord. 598, § 5.5)
§ 19.15.075 FLOODWAYS.
   (A)   Located within areas of special flood hazard established in §
19.15.036 are areas designated as floodways.
   (B)   Since the floodway is an extremely hazardous area due to the velocity
of flood waters which carry debris, potential projectiles and erosion
potential, the following provisions apply:
      (1)   Prohibit encroachments, including fill, new construction,
substantial improvement and other new development unless certification by a
registered professional engineer or architect is provided demonstrating that
encroachments shall not result in any increase in flood levels during the
occurrence of the base flood discharge.
      (2)   If division (B)(1) above is satisfied, all new construction,
substantial improvement and other proposed new development shall comply with
all other applicable flood hazard reduction provisions of
Article V.
(1966 Code, § 6E-21) (Ord. 598, § 5.6)
ARTICLE VI. VARIANCE PROCEDURE
§ 19.15.090 NATURE OF VARIANCES.
   (A)   The variance criteria set forth herein are based on the general
principle of zoning law that variances pertain to a piece of property and are
not personal in nature. Though these standards vary from jurisdiction to
jurisdiction, in general, a properly issued variance is granted for a parcel of
property with physical characteristics so unusual that complying with the
requirements of this ordinance would create an exceptional hardship to the
applicant or the surrounding property owners. The characteristics must be
unique to the property and not be shared by adjacent parcels. The unique
characteristic must pertain to the land itself, not to the structure, its
inhabitants or the property owners.
   (B)   It is the duty of the Board of Supervisors to help protect its
citizens from flooding. This need is so compelling, and the implications of the
cost of insuring a structure built below flood level are so serious that
variances from the flood elevation or from other requirements in the flood
ordinance are quite rare. Therefore, the variance guidelines provided in this
chapter are more detailed and contain multiple provisions that must be met
before a variance can be properly granted. The criteria are designed to screen
out those situations in which alternatives other than a variance are more
appropriate.
(1966 Code, § 6E-22) (Ord. 598, § 6.1)
§ 19.15.091 APPEAL BOARD.
   (A)   The Planning Commission of the county shall hear and decide appeals
and requests for variances from the requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   The Planning Commission shall hear and decide appeals when it is
alleged there is an error in any requirement, decision or determination made by
the Floodplain Administrator in the enforcement or administration of this
chapter.
   (C)   In passing upon such applications, the Planning Commission shall
consider technical evaluations, all relevant factors, standards specified in
other sections of this chapter:
      (1)   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the
injury of others;
      (2)   The danger of life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;
      (3)   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of the damage on the existing individual owner and
future owners of the property;
      (4)   The importance of the services provided by the proposed facility to
the community;
      (5)   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location, where
applicable;
      (6)   The availability of alternative locations for the proposed use
which are not subject to flooding or erosion damage;
      (7)   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development;
      (8)   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan and
floodplain management program for that area;
      (9)   The safety of access to the property in time of flood for ordinary
and emergency vehicles;
      (10)   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise and
sediment transport of the flood waters expected at the site; and
      (11)   The costs of providing governmental services during and after
flood conditions, including maintenance and repair of public utilities and
facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical and water system, and streets and
bridges.
   (D)   (1)   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given
written notice over the signature of a community official that:
         (a)   The issuance of a variance to construct a structure below the
base flood level will result in increased premium rates for flood insurance up
to amounts as high as $25 for $100 of insurance coverage; and
         (b)   The construction below the base flood level increases risks to
life and property.
      (2)   A copy of the notice shall be recorded by the Floodplain Board in
the office of the County Recorder and shall be recorded in a manner so that it
appears in the chain of title of the affected parcel of land.
   (E)   The Floodplain Administrator will maintain a record of all variance
actions, including justification for their issuance, and report the variances
issued in its biennial report submitted to the Federal Insurance
Administration, Federal Emergency Management Agency.
(1966 Code, § 6E-23) (Ord. 598, § 6.2)
§ 19.15.092 CONDITIONS FOR VARIANCES.
   (A)   Generally, variances may be issued for new construction, substantial
improvement and other proposed new development to be erected on a lot of one-
half acre or less in size contiguous to and surrounded by lots with existing
structures constructed below the base flood level, providing that the
procedures of Articles
IV and
V of this chapter have been fully considered. As the lot size increases beyond
one-half acre, the technical justification required for issuing the variance
increases.
   (B)   Variances may be issued for the repair or rehabilitation of “historic
structures” (as defined in
Article II of this chapter) upon a determination that the proposed repair or
rehabilitation will not preclude the structure’s continued designation as a
historic structure and the variance is the minimum necessary to preserve the
historic character and design of the structure.
   (C)   Variances shall not be issued within any designated floodway if any
increase in flood levels than otherwise allowed in this chapter during the base
flood discharge would result.
   (D)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the variance
is the “minimum necessary” (as defined in
Article II of this chapter), considering the flood hazard, to afford relief.
   (E)   Variances shall only be issued upon:
      (1)   A showing of good and sufficient cause;
      (2)   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result in
exceptional “hardship” (as defined in
Article II of this chapter) to the applicant; and
      (3)   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result in
increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety, extraordinary
public expense, create “nuisances” (as defined in
Article II of this chapter), cause “fraud or victimization” (as defined in
Article II of this chapter) of the public, or conflict with existing local laws
or ordinances.
   (F)   Variances may be issued for new construction, substantial improvement
and other proposed new development necessary for the conduct of a functionally
dependent use provided that the provisions of §
19.15.091(A) through (E) are satisfied and that the structure or other
development is protected by methods that minimize flood damages during the base
flood and create no additional threats to public safety.
   (G)   Upon consideration of the factors of §
19.15.091(C) and the purposes of this chapter, the Planning Commission may
attach such conditions to the granting of variances as it deems necessary to
further the purposes of this chapter.
(1966 Code, § 6E-24) (Ord. 598, § 6.3)
CHAPTER 19.17: GRADING, DRAINAGE AND EROSION CONTROL
Section
   
19.17.001   Purpose
   
19.17.002   Scope
   
19.17.003   Definitions
   
19.17.004   Permit exemptions
   
19.17.005   Riparian protection
   
19.17.006   Areas of landslides and steep slopes
   
19.17.007   Hazards
   
19.17.008   Permits required
   
19.17.009   Applications
   
19.17.010   Soils and geologic report
   
19.17.011   Permit limitations and conditions
   
19.17.012   Fees
   
19.17.013   Undertakings
   
19.17.014   Standards and criteria
   
19.17.015   Grading inspection
   
19.17.016   Appeals
   
19.17.017   Finality of decision
   
19.17.018   Enforcement
§ 19.17.001 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to safeguard public health, property and
general welfare by regulating grading, drainage and erosion control on private
and public property and requiring grading, erosion and drainage control plans
which prevent water pollution and sedimentation of the county’s water
resources.
(1966 Code, § 7A-1) (Ord. 708, § 1)
§ 19.17.002 SCOPE.
   This chapter sets forth rules and regulations to control excavation,
grading, drainage and erosion, establishes the administrative procedure for
issuance of permits, and provides for approval of plans and inspection of
grading construction, drainage measures and erosion control methods.
(1966 Code, § 7A-2) (Ord. 708, § 1)
§ 19.17.003 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGRICULTURAL GRADING. Grading, related strictly to agriculture, which takes
place on land designated on the county’s General Plan and zoning maps as
exclusive agriculture use. This includes routine leveling, plowing, harrowing,
disking, ridging, listing, cultivating, on-site drainage ditches, brush
removal, preparation of ranch roads related strictly to access to fields,
creation of stock ponds and similar operations necessary for the preparation
and maintenance of field crops.
   AGRICULTURE. The art or science of cultivating the ground including the
harvesting of crops and rearing and management of livestock, tilling,
husbandry, farming, horticulture and forestry; the science and art of the
production of plants and animals useful to man, including apiaries, aviaries
and dairying.
   BEDROCK. The in-place solid, undisturbed material either at the ground
surface or beneath superficial deposits of gravel, sand or soil.
   BENCH. A relatively level step excavated into earth material.
   CIVIL ENGINEER. A professional engineer registered in the State of
California to practice civil engineering.
   CLEARING. The removal of vegetation down to bare soil.
   COMPACTION. The densification of earthen solids.
   CONTRACTOR. Any person licensed in the State of California to do grading as
defined by state law.
   DIKING. Construction of an earthen berm to control or confine water.
   DRAINAGE COURSE. A natural or man-made channel which conveys storm runoff
either year-round or intermittently.
   DREDGING. Scooping or digging of earth material.
   DRIVEWAY. Any private road leading from the street to only one habitable
structure or parcel.
   EARTH MATERIALS. Rock, natural soil, sand or combination thereof.
   ENGINEERING GEOLOGIST. A professional geologist registered in the State of
California to practice engineering geology.
   EROSION. The wearing away of the ground surface as a result of movement of
wind, water or ice.
   EXISTING GRADE. The grade prior to grading.
   FILL. The deposition of earth or other material by artificial means for any
purpose, for any length of time including the stockpiling of material, or the
condition resulting therefrom.
   FINISH GRADE. The final grade of the site which conforms to the approved
plan.
   GEOLOGIC HAZARD. Any condition in naturally occurring earth materials which
endangers life, health or property.
   GRADE. The vertical location of the ground surface, or the degree of rise or
descent of a slope.
   GEOTECHNICAL ENGINEER. A civil engineer, qualified by the Board for
professional engineers and land surveyors to use the title of “geotechnical
engineer”, pursuant to Cal. Business and Professional Code § 6736.1.
   GRADING. Excavating, or filling, dredging, diking, prospecting, exploratory
digging and drilling for geotechnical reports.
   KEY. A designated compacted fill, placed in a trench, excavated in
undisturbed earth material or rock beneath the toe of a proposed fill slope,
for the purpose of developing a shearing resistance.
   LAND DISTURBANCE. Clearing, excavating, grading or other manipulation of the
terrain.
   LETTER OF COMPLIANCE. A letter prepared by a registered geotechnical
engineer certifying that the project has been constructed in compliance with
the recommended geotechnical standards and specifications.
   RIPARIAN CORRIDOR. Any of the following:
      (1)   Lands within a stream channel, including the stream and the area
between the mean rainy season bankfull flowline;
      (2)   Lands extending 50 feet (measured horizontally) out from each side
of a perennial stream. Distance shall be measured from the mean rainy season
bankfull flowline;
      (3)   Lands extending 30 feet (measured horizontally) from each side of
an intermittent stream. Distance shall be measured from the mean rainy season
bankfull flowline;
      (4)   Lands extending 100 feet (measured horizontally) from the high
water mark of a lake, wetland, estuary, lagoon or natural body of standing
water; or
      (5)   Lands containing a riparian woodland.
   ROAD GRADIENT. A vertical rise multiplied by 100 and divided by horizontal
run.
   ROAD/ROADWAY/RIGHT-OF-WAY. An open way for vehicular traffic serving more
than two parcels.
   SECURITY. A cash deposit either with the county, responsible escrow agent,
bank, trust company or specified entity, a time certificate of deposit or
equivalent security acceptable to the county.
   SITE. A parcel of land or contiguous combination therefor, where grading is
performed or proposed.
   SLOPE. An inclined ground surface the inclination of which is expressed as a
ratio of horizontal distance to vertical distance.
   SOIL. Naturally occurring superficial deposits of earth material overlaying
bedrock.
   SOIL ENGINEER. A civil engineer, registered in the State of California,
experienced and knowledgeable in the practice of soil engineering.
   STREAM. Any watercourse as designated by a solid line or dash and three dots
shown on the largest scale of the United States Geological Survey Map most
recently published.
   TERRACE. A relatively level step constructed in the face of a graded slope
for drainage and maintenance purposes.
   WATERBREAK. A ditch, dike, dip or combination thereof, constructed to
effectively divert water as an aid to erosion control.
   WINTER GRADING PERMIT. Between October 15 and April 15, all grading permit
applications are considered winter grading. Applications for winter grading
permits are subject to review in terms of amount of grading, weather conditions
and estimated time of completion.
(1966 Code, § 7A-3) (Ord. 708, § 1; Ord. 801, § 1(I))
§ 19.17.004 PERMIT EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   No person shall do any grading without first having obtained a grading
permit from the Building Inspection and Planning Department, except for the
following:
      (1)   “Agricultural grading” means grading related strictly to
agriculture, which takes place on land designated on the county’s General Plan
and zoning maps as permitting agriculture use, or where there exists a
documented, continuous historical agricultural use. This includes routine
leveling, plowing, harrowing, disking, ridging, listing, cultivating, on-site
drainage ditches, brush removal, preparation of ranch roads related strictly to
access to fields, creation of stock ponds and similar operations necessary for
the preparation and maintenance of field crops. Agricultural grading does not
include any grading on such lands connected with the construction of roads to
new dwellings, driveways, building sites for which a building permit is
required, the creation of any dam requiring engineering or any grading that is
not directly related to agriculture. The grading shall not be located within a
landslide hazard area, or steep slopes as defined under §§
19.17.006 and
19.17.007 of this chapter, and shall not take place within 50 feet from the top
of a stream bank, creek, river, wetland or other body of water as required
under §
19.17.005 of this chapter. The grading shall not require engineering as defined
in the county grading ordinance, Uniform Building Code or the requirements of
other state or regional agencies;
      (2)   Any excavation below finished grade for basements and footings of a
building, retaining wall or other structure authorized by a valid building
permit. This shall not apply to the placement of any fill resulting in an
unsupported height greater than five feet. All retaining walls over four feet
in height shall be engineered and require a permit;
      (3)   Cemetery graves;
      (4)   Solid waste facilities controlled by other regulatory agencies and
subject to other permits;
      (5)   Mining, quarrying, excavating, as defined and regulated in
Chapter 19.13 of the San Benito County Code;
      (6)   Exploratory excavations under the direction of soil engineers or
geologists for the purposes of preparing soils and geotechnical reports,
provided that professional standards (including compaction and reseeding where
appropriate) are met when covering the excavation;
      (7)   Minor alterations of non-agricultural land which do not exceed 50
cubic yards on any one parcel and do not obstruct or seriously alter a natural
drainage course or occur within the riparian corridor as defined by this
chapter;
      (8)   Grading for the purposes of restoring land to a safe condition
following a flood or natural disaster or grading to eliminate a potential
hazard created by same and that does not create a hazard to adjacent land;
      (9)   Water wells;
      (10)   Public utilities and/or public agencies work which does not
accelerate erosion, cause drainage problems and that has been reviewed pursuant
to CEQA and processed appropriately, including public notice; and
      (11)   Landscaping where all excavation and fill are used entirely for
landscaping purposes, and limited to 100 cubic yards with a maximum excavation
or embankment of two feet. The landscaping shall not obstruct or seriously
alter a natural drainage course or occur within the riparian corridor as
defined by this chapter.
   (B)   Any grading requiring engineering is not exempt from the provisions of
this chapter.
(1966 Code, § 7A-4) (Ord. 708, § 1; Ord. 801, § 1(II, III))
§ 19.17.005 RIPARIAN PROTECTION.
   Grading activity shall not take place within 50 feet (measured horizontally)
from the top of the bank of a stream, creek, river or within 50 feet of a
wetland or body of water.
(1966 Code, § 7A-5) (Ord. 708, § 1)
§ 19.17.006 AREAS OF LANDSLIDES AND STEEP SLOPES.
   No grading shall occur in areas of active landslide as determined by a
geotechnical evaluation or in areas exceeding 30% in slope measured both
horizontally and vertically, except as provided in this section.
   (A)   Grading for access roads and driveways may be permitted on slopes
exceeding 30% where the following findings can be made.
      (1)   There is no feasible alternative which would allow development to
occur on slopes of less than 30%.
      (2)   Grading does not encroach on slopes of 40% or greater.
      (3)   The proposed development better achieves the goals, policies and
objectives of the county General Plan and ordinances, than other development
alternatives.
   (B)   Where grading on slopes of 30% or greater is permitted, the following
conditions will apply:
      (1)   Plans and specifications shall be prepared and signed by a
registered civil engineer, and be accompanied by a geotechnical report and
other reports as required under §
19.17.010 of this chapter. The civil engineer shall certify that the plans have
been prepared in compliance with the recommendations contained in the
geotechnical report.
      (2)   All grading and road construction shall be performed by an
engineering contractor licensed with the State of California.
      (3)   All grading and road construction activities shall be monitored by
a licensed geotechnical engineer who shall submit a “letter of compliance” to
the Public Works Department prior to the county final of the grading permit.
      (4)   Landscaping is required to reduce the visual impact of grading on
slopes of 30% or greater. Landscaping plans shall be approved by the Planning
and Building Departments prior to issuance of a grading permit.
   (C)   On legal lots of record to provide access to an existing dwelling
where all of the following can be found:
      (1)   The dwelling was constructed with building permits and a
certificate of occupancy granted prior to the adoption date of the ordinance
codified in this chapter;
      (2)   The previous access is no longer feasible due to hazards or a
change in legal entitlements; and
      (3)   No other access to the site can be found without grading on slopes
greater than 30%.
(1966 Code, § 7A-6) (Ord. 708, § 1; Ord. 801, § 1(IV))
§ 19.17.007 HAZARDS.
   Whenever two of the following three, County Engineer, Building Official,
Planning Director, determines that any existing excavation or embankment
(excluding natural embankment) of cut or fill on private property has become a
hazard to life and limb, or endangers property, or adversely affects the
safety, use or stability of a public way or drainage channel, the owner of the
property upon which the excavation or fill is located, or other person or agent
in control of the property, upon receipt of notice in writing from the county
shall, within the period specified therein, repair or eliminate the excavation
or embankment so as to eliminate the hazard and be in conformance with the
requirements of this chapter. If the property owner does not repair or
eliminate the hazard, the county may remove the hazard at the property owner’s
expense.
(1966 Code, § 7A-7) (Ord. 708, § 1)
§ 19.17.008 PERMITS REQUIRED.
   Except as otherwise exempted by this chapter, no person shall do any grading
without first obtaining a grading permit from the Building Inspection and
Planning Department. A separate permit shall be required for each site and may
cover both excavation and fills. Grading permits are not transferable.
(1966 Code, § 7A-8) (Ord. 708, § 1)
§ 19.17.009 APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   Plans will be required with all applications for grading permits. Each
plan sheet shall be of suitable scale and size. All applications shall be
signed by owners of each parcel of property on which grading will be conducted.
Plans and specifications shall be prepared and signed by a civil engineer when
the grading or filling is over 1,500 cubic yards; or a dam, retaining wall or
fill over four feet in height is required; or when grading will occur on slopes
greater than 20%.
   (B)   Plans shall be drawn to suitable scale and size upon substantial
reproducible material and shall be of sufficient clarity to indicate the nature
and extent of the work proposed and show in detail that it will conform to the
provisions of this chapter and all other relevant laws, ordinances and
regulations. The location of the work, the name and address of the owner, and
the parcel number of the property on which the grading is to be done shall be
clearly shown on each set of plans. The plans shall include the following
information:
      (1)   A statement as to the specific intentions or ultimate purpose for
which the grading is being done;
      (2)   General vicinity of the proposed site;
      (3)   Property limits and accurate contours of existing ground and
details of terrain and area drainage;
      (4)   Limit dimensions, elevations or finish contours to be achieved by
the grading, and proposed drainage channels and related construction;
      (5)   Detailed plans of all surface and subsurface drainage devices,
walls, culverts, bridges, retaining walls, cribbing darns and other protective
devices to be constructed with, or as a part of, the proposed work together
with a map showing the drainage area and the estimated runoff of the area
served by any drains;
      (6)   Location of any building or structures on the property which may be
affected where the work is to be performed and the location of any buildings or
structures on land of adjacent owners which are within 15 feet of the property
or which may be affected by the proposed grading;
      (7)   Starting and completion dates;
      (8)   Proposed methods to control erosion and drainage such that it does
not leave the site unless contained in an approved drainage channel and does
not cause damage to neighboring properties and methods to establish vegetation
on disturbed slopes;
      (9)   Provide an estimated amount of cut and fill material, and vertical
dimensions of cut and fill material;
      (10)   Provide erosion and drainage control plan;
      (11)   Location of utility connections, septic tanks/leach fields and
wells; and
      (12)   Other information required by the county necessary to adequately
describe and analyze the proposed project.
   (C)   Applications for grading that do not contain the required information
will not be accepted.
(1966 Code, § 7A-9) (Ord. 708, § 1; Ord. 801, § 1(V, VI))
§ 19.17.010 SOILS AND GEOLOGIC REPORT.
   (A)   Application for a grading permit shall be accompanied by supporting
data consisting of a soils engineering report and geologic reports, unless
waived by the county because information is available showing the data is not
needed. The soil engineering report shall include data regarding the nature,
distribution and strength of existing soils, conclusions and recommendations
for grading procedures, design criteria for corrective measures when necessary,
and opinions and recommendations covering adequacy of sites to be developed by
the proposed grading.
   (B)   The geologic report shall include an adequate description of the
geology of the site, conclusions and recommendations regarding the effect of
geologic conditions on the proposed development, and opinions and
recommendations covering the adequacy of sites to be developed by the proposed
grading. Recommendations included in the report shall be incorporated in the
grading plans and specifications.
(1966 Code, § 7A-10) (Ord. 708, § 1)
§ 19.17.011 PERMIT LIMITATIONS AND CONDITIONS.
   (A)   Issuance. The issuance of a grading permit shall be the responsibility
of the Planning Director and shall constitute an authorization to do only that
work which is described or illustrated on the approved plans and
specifications.
   (B)   Approved plans. When the Planning Director issues the permit, all of
the plans and specifications shall be endorsed “approved”. The approved plans
and specifications shall not be changed, modified or altered without written
authorization by the Building Inspection and Planning Department. All work
shall be done in accordance with the approved plans, building permits and this
chapter. The Public Works Department will review and approve all engineered
plans prior to issuance of permit and shall sign a copy of all engineered plans
indicating that plans are appropriately engineered.
   (C)   Conditions of approval. In granting any permit under this chapter, the
county shall attach such conditions as necessary to prevent creation of a
public nuisance or hazard to public or private property. The conditions may
include, but shall not be limited to:
      (1)   Improvements of any existing grading project to bring it up to
standards of this chapter;
      (2)   Requirements for fencing of excavations or fills which would
otherwise be hazardous to persons;
      (3)   Haul routes for materials;
      (4)   Conditions recommended by the County Engineer, Planning Director,
Building Official or other responsible agency;
      (5)   Conditions recommended by a geological hazard review;
      (6)   Check dams, cribbing, rip rap or other devices to prevent erosion;
      (7)   Mulching, fertilizing, watering or other methods to establish new
vegetation. Stockpiling and reapplication of topsoil;
      (8)   Dust from grading operations shall be controlled;
      (9)   No earth or organic material shall be deposited or placed where it
may be deposited into a stream, marsh, slough or body of standing water in a
quantity deleterious to wildlife, aquatic life or other beneficial uses of the
water. Nor shall earth or organic material be deposited where it may flow onto
neighboring property;
      (10)   Hours and days of week of operation;
      (11)   Erosion control plans indicating proposed methods for the control
of runoff, erosion and sediment control;
      (12)   Revegetation plan detailing the revegetation of all exposed
surfaces during development;
      (13)   Drainage plans shall meet the specifications listed in the county
subdivision ordinance and shall include on-site retention of water to pre-
development levels; and
      (14)   Any overburden generated by the project that is to remain on-site
shall be distributed evenly along the natural contours of the site on slopes no
greater than 20%, at a depth no greater than 12 inches, not intended to support
structures, and does not obstruct a drainage course. Areas intended for
overburden must be stripped of topsoil and organic material for replacement
above overburden material and must be revegetated.
   (D)   Denial of permit.
      (1)   An application for a grading, dredging or disking permit shall be
denied if the county makes any of the following findings:
         (a)   That the design of the proposed site is not consistent with the
applicable General Plan adopted by San Benito County;
         (b)   That the project as proposed will create a building site, for
which adequate sewage facilities and water supplies cannot be provided;
         (c)   That the project, as proposed, will cause excessive and
unnecessary disturbance of the site or requires grading on slopes greater than
30% in slope beyond what is authorized in §
19.17.006 of this chapter;
         (d)   That the work proposed will be hazardous by reason of floods,
geological hazard or unstable soils, and will be liable to endanger other
properties or result in the deposition of debris on any public way, property or
drainage course, or will otherwise create a hazard;
         (e)   That the work proposed will create an unavoidable adverse
environmental impact; and
         (f)   That the project as proposed will place fill within a 100-year
floodplain (unless it can be demonstrated through environmental review that the
fill will not cause significant flood hazard).
      (2)   The county shall notify the applicant in writing of a denial or
conditions for denial and shall state the reasons therefor.
   (E)   Work time limits. The permit holder shall fully perform and complete
all of the work required to be done within the time limit specified. If no time
limit is specified, the permittee shall complete the work within 180 days after
the date of the issuance of the grading permit.
   (F)   Expiration of permit. Every permit issued under this chapter shall
expire if the work authorized is not commenced within 90 days from the date of
permit issuance, or if the work authorized is commenced and then suspended for
a period of 30 days, unless the suspension is approved.
   (G)   Safety precautions. The permittee shall take all appropriate and
necessary precautions to protect adjacent public and private property from
damage that may result from the grading operations.
   (H)   Winter grading. No grading shall occur at any time the material to be
moved is so saturated, or in any similar condition or rainfall is so likely
that, in the judgment of the county planning or Public Works Director weather
conditions and the estimated time of completion will result in unnecessary
erosion or stream sedimentation or pollution. Any grading between October 15
and April 15 requires the issuance of a winter grading permit.
   (I)   Deed notification. A deed notification for all properties involved,
with a map that designates the area where fill is to be placed, shall be
required for agricultural fill not excepted by §
19.17.004 of this chapter. The deed notification shall also specify that no
structures (i.e., roads, buildings or driveways) will be allowed to be
constructed within this area unless a soils engineering and geologic report is
prepared, pursuant to §
19.17.010 of this chapter. The soil engineering report shall include data
regarding the nature, distribution and strength of existing soils, conclusions
and recommendations for grading procedures, design criteria for corrective
measures if necessary and opinions and recommendations covering adequacy of
sites to be developed.
   (J)   County Engineer approval. When plans and specifications are prepared
and signed by a civil engineer, per §
19.17.009 of this chapter, all required grading shall be subject to the
approval of the County Engineer and shall be designed and constructed in
accordance with such plans and specifications and other approved standards as
provided by this chapter and by ordinance or resolution of the Board of
Supervisors.
(1966 Code, § 7A-11) (Ord. 708, § 1; Ord. 801, § 1(VII—IX))
§ 19.17.012 FEES.
   The fee for plan check and issuance of a grading permit shall be set by
ordinance of the Board of Supervisors.
(1966 Code, § 7A-12) (Ord. 708, § 1)
§ 19.17.013 UNDERTAKINGS.
   The county may require an undertaking of bond, cash deposits or letters of
credit for all grading in such form and amounts as may be deemed necessary to
assure that the work, if not completed in accordance with the approved plans
and specifications, will be corrected to eliminate hazardous conditions. The
Building Official may take action against the bond if a determination is made
that specific conditions listed in the grading permit were not met, or if the
permittee abandons the site prior to completing the grading, erosion control or
drainage requirements or if the Building Official determines that action by the
county is necessary to prevent excessive erosion from occurring on site.
(1966 Code, § 7A-13) (Ord. 708, § 1)
§ 19.17.014 STANDARDS AND CRITERIA.
   The standards and criteria which the county shall use to judge sufficiency
of plans for cuts, fills, setbacks, drainage and terracing shall be those set
forth in the Uniform Building Code.
(1966 Code, § 7A-14) (Ord. 708, § 1)
§ 19.17.015 GRADING INSPECTION.
   (A)   All grading operations for which a permit is required shall be subject
to inspection by the county. When required by the county, special testing shall
be performed by the applicants at their expense. The permittee, or his or her
agent, shall notify the county when the grading operation is ready for final
inspection. Final approval shall not be given until all work, including
installation of all drainage facilities, and their protective devices and all
erosion control measures have been completed in accordance with the final
approved grading plan and the required reports have been submitted. The
required bonding, cash deposit or letter of credit may be released after the
county grants a final approval.
   (B)   All grading and drainage, subject to §§
19.17.009 and
19.17.011 of this chapter, shall be inspected during construction by the County
Engineer.
   (C)   All grading and drainage, subject to §§
19.17.009,
19.17.011 and
19.17.015 of this chapter, shall be subject to public works fees as structured
and set forth in
Chapter 19.13 of the San Benito County Code.
(1966 Code, § 7A-15) (Ord. 708, § 1; Ord. 801, § 1(X))
§ 19.17.016 APPEALS.
   (A)   Appellant; appeals body. Any interested party may appeal any final
decision of the particular county official made under this chapter to the
Planning Commission or any decision of the Planning Commission to the Board of
Supervisors. For the purposes of this section, the Planning Commission or the
Board of Supervisors, when acting as the body hearing an appeal, shall be
referred to as the “appeals body”.
   (B)   Time for appeal; application; fee; grounds. Any appeal shall be filed
with the appropriate appeals body not later than five days after the challenged
decision. The appeal shall be made on an application form approved by the
Planning Department and accompanied by the required fee. The specific grounds
for the appeal shall be stated. Omitted grounds shall not be considered and the
appellant’s failure to state a ground constitutes a waiver of the right to
subsequently raise the omitted ground.
   (C)   Hearing; evidence. The appeal shall be a public hearing conducted de
novo. The hearing shall commence at the next available meeting date of the
appeals body after the filing of the appeal. In no event shall the hearing
commence later than 60 days after the filing of the appeal. The hearing may be
continued at the discretion of the appeals body, but in no event shall the
hearing be continued for more than 60 days, unless consented to by the property
owner and the appellant, if other than the property owner. The appeals body
shall consider any relevant, reliable evidence. The admission of evidence shall
not be governed by the technical legal rules of evidence. Rather, any evidence
which may be relied upon by a reasonable person conducting serious business
affairs shall be admitted.
   (D)   Basis for decision. The appeals body shall state the basis for its
decision by written resolution. If the appeals body acts to reverse or modify
the decision it reviews, it shall state the nature of the error requiring the
reversal or modification.
   (E)   Notice of appeal. The notice of appeal also shall be given to property
owner if property owner is not the appellant. In all cases, a notice of appeal
shall be published in a newspaper of general circulation at least ten days in
advance of the commencement of the hearing.
(1966 Code, § 7A-16) (Ord. 708, § 1)
§ 19.17.017 FINALITY OF DECISION.
   Any initial decision made by the Planning Director or Planning Commission
under this chapter is not final until the later date of either:
   (A)   If no appeal is filed, the expiration of the time for the filing of an
appeal; or
   (B)   If an appeal is filed, the date a final decision is made by the
appeals body hearing the final appeal possible under this chapter.
(1966 Code, § 7A-17) (Ord. 708, § 1)
§ 19.17.018 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Enforcement officials. All departments, officials and public employees
of the county which are vested with the duty and authority under the San Benito
County subdivision and zoning ordinances shall enforce all the provisions of
this chapter. Any permit given in conflict with the provisions of this chapter
shall be null and void.
   (B)   Violation of chapter; criminal. Any person, firm or corporation,
whether its principal agent or employee or otherwise violating any of the
provisions of this chapter shall be guilty of an infraction punished as
provided in
Chapter 1.03 of this code.
   (C)   Violation of chapter; public nuisance. Any grading conducted or
operated contrary to the provisions of this chapter shall be, and the same is
declared to be a public nuisance and shall be abated, eliminated and enjoined
as provided in
Chapter 1.03 of this code.
   (D)   Remedies cumulative. Except as otherwise provided by law, the remedies
provided in this chapter are cumulative and not exclusive. Nothing in this
chapter is intended or shall be deemed or construed to limit or impair the
ability of the county, or any of its officers, agents or employees, to take any
administrative or judicial action, otherwise authorized by law, to abate any
public nuisance.
Chapter 1.03 of this code is hereby incorporated by reference as though its
provisions were fully set forth herein.
(1966 Code, § 7A-18) (Ord. 708, § 1)
CHAPTER 19.19: HABITAT CONSERVATION PLAN STUDY AREA
Section
   
19.19.001   Purpose
   
19.19.002   Definitions
   
19.19.003   Designation of San Benito County habitat conservation plan
preliminary study area
   
19.19.004   Implementation of fee
   
19.19.005   Payment of fee
   
19.19.006   Termination of fees
   
19.19.007   Disposition of fees
   
19.19.008   Adoption of regulations
§ 19.19.001 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The purpose of this chapter is to provide a method for financing
development and implementation of a habitat conservation plan and a § 10(a)
permit under the Endangered Species Act of 1973 (16 U.S.C. §§ 1531 et seq.) for
the San Benito County habitat conservation plan study area. It is the further
purpose of this chapter to provide a method for mitigation of adverse impacts
to federally protected endangered species caused by development of habitat
during the preparation of a habitat conservation plan, and provide for habitat
mitigation as identified in the habitat conservation plan.
   (B)   This chapter provides for the establishment of fees which, upon
payment, will satisfy U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, as well as county,
mitigation requirements for endangered species and their habitats which may
occur within the area of the county designated herein pending completion and
adoption of a habitat conservation plan and issuance of a § 10(a) permit.
(1966 Code, § 7A.1-1) (Ord. 541, § 1)
§ 19.19.002 DEFINITIONS.
   As used in this chapter, the following words and phrases are defined as
follows.
   ACCESSORY BUILDING or ACCESSORY STRUCTURE. A building or structure detached
from a principal building on the same lot and customarily incidental and
subordinate to the principal building or use.
   DEVELOPMENT. The construction, conversion, structural alteration, relocation
or enlargement of any structure or any activity requiring a permit from or the
approval by the county which physically disturbs a site, including grading of
any parcel of real property within the habitat conservation plan study area.
   FEE ASSESSMENT AREA. The land within the San Benito County habitat
conservation plan study area and described in §
19.19.003.
   HABITAT CONSERVATION PLAN (HCP). A plan prepared pursuant to the provisions
of 16 U.S.C. § 1539.
   INTERIM MITIGATION. Fees collected from development for the purpose of
financing the HCP and funding habitat acquisition and/or habitat enhancement
for protected plant and/or animal species.
   MINERAL DEVELOPMENT. Application and development for the purpose of oil, gas
and mineral extraction or enhancement of mineral extraction.
   PERMIT. Written governmental approval or authorization issued by an
authorized county official empowering the holder thereof to a certain land use
entitlement permitted by the San Benito County zoning, building or grading
ordinances.
   STRUCTURE. Covered or enclosed habitable space.
   UNDEVELOPED. Land not previously occupied by a building or used for a
purpose subject to interim mitigation fees or land for which a permit was not
issued prior to the effective date of the ordinance codified in this chapter.
(1966 Code, § 7A.1-2) (Ord. 541, § 2)
§ 19.19.003 DESIGNATION OF SAN BENITO COUNTY HABITAT CONSERVATION PLAN
PRELIMINARY STUDY AREA.
   (A)   All those certain lands located in the unincorporated areas of the
County of San Benito, State of California, as hereinafter particularly
described, are hereby constituted and shall be designated as the habitat
conservation plan preliminary study area. The habitat conservation plan
preliminary study area is described as set forth in Exhibit A (map) of the
ordinance codified in this chapter.
   (B)   Including any areas bounded by a street of influence, the boundary is
then to extend to the outer right-of-way of the street, or streets, but
excluding any area within the incorporated Cities of Hollister and San Juan
Bautista.
(1966 Code, § 7A.1-3) (Ord. 541, § 3)
§ 19.19.004 IMPLEMENTATION OF FEE.
   (A)   (1)   During the time the interim mitigation fee is in effect, prior
to the approval of any permit within the boundaries of the HCP study area, the
county will collect an interim mitigation fee payable at the Planning
Department office. The fee shall be collected in two stages, at the map stage
and the building permit stage. The fees that must be paid prior to recordation
of a final or parcel map will be as follows:
 
Building Lot Size  Fee Per Lot
1 acre or less     $150
1.1 acre to 5 acre $300
5.1 acre or larger $600
 
      (2)   The fees to be paid at the time of a building permit shall be $0.15
per square foot of structure. Any site that does not have the fees paid at the
subdivision stage must pay the full fee at the time of the building permit.
Commercial, industrial and other development projects that would have the
effect of converting raw land to developed uses shall pay $550 per developed
acre prior to alteration of the habitat. Conversion of lands from agricultural
use to other more intensive agricultural uses must be mitigated through the
payment of a $10 per acre fee and $0.02 per square foot for agriculturally
related structures. Payment of the interim mitigation fee will satisfy county
conditions of approval placed on development projects with regard to adverse
impact mitigation for federally endangered species which have not previously
been satisfied.
   (B)   Interim mitigation fees will not be required for the following:
      (1)   Additions, remodels or reconstructions totaling not more than 50%
of the square footage of the preexisting development;
      (2)   Development of any parcel of less than one-half gross acre where at
least half of the adjacent parcels have been previously developed as of the
date of enactment of the ordinance codified in this chapter; and
      (3)   Development of any parcel for which the United States Fish and
Wildlife Service has approved other mitigating procedures or which is otherwise
exempt from the provisions of the Endangered Species Act of 1973 (16 U.S.C. §§
1531 et seq.).
   (C)   For purposes of this chapter, the foregoing are deemed to have no
significant adverse impact on any endangered species.
(1966 Code, § 7A.1-4) (Ord. 541, § 4)
§ 19.19.005 PAYMENT OF FEE.
   The fee may be paid by cash, pledged certificate of deposit, irrevocable
letter of credit or performance surety bond if the project applicant wishes to
pay the interim mitigation fee prior to recordation of the final tract or
parcel map. All but cash shall be made payable upon demand by the Director of
Planning.
(1966 Code, § 7A.1-5) (Ord. 541, § 5)
§ 19.19.006 TERMINATION OF FEES.
   The interim mitigation fee shall remain in effect until a § 10(a) permit is
issued by the Department of the Interior to the county.
(1966 Code, § 7A.1-6) (Ord. 541, § 6)
§ 19.19.007 DISPOSITION OF FEES.
   The county will hold interim mitigation fees collected by it in a separate
trust for payment of HCP development costs and habitat mitigation as identified
in the HCP.
(1966 Code, § 7A.1-7) (Ord. 541, § 7)
§ 19.19.008 ADOPTION OF REGULATIONS.
   The Board of Supervisors may, from time to time, by resolution adopt
regulations for the administration and implementation of this chapter not
inconsistent with it. The regulations, and any amendments thereto, shall be
adopted after a duly noticed public hearing.
(1966 Code, § 7A.1-8) (Ord. 541, § 8)
CHAPTER 19.21: OIL AND GAS WELLS
Section
   
19.21.001   Position of Petroleum Administrator established
   
19.21.002   Purpose of chapter
   
19.21.003   Adopted codes, regulations, and standards
   
19.21.004   Definitions
   
19.21.005   Permits
   
19.21.006   Permit procedures
   
19.21.007   Specific conditions of approval relating to conditional use permits
for oil and gas well operations
   
19.21.008   Fees relating to conditional use permits for oil and gas well
operations
   
19.21.009   Notices
   
19.21.010   Spill control plan
   
19.21.011   State and federal laws
   
19.21.012   Service of notice
   
19.21.013   Extension or waivers
   
19.21.014   Vested rights/legal non-conforming operations
   
19.21.015   Penalties
   
19.21.016   Appeals
   
19.21.017   Spacing and location
   
19.21.018   Grading
   
19.21.019   Drilling and well servicing structures
   
19.21.020   Piping
   
19.21.021   Fire prevention and control equipment
   
19.21.022   Removal of drilling and service equipment
   
19.21.023   Surface inspections
   
19.21.024   Hazardous conditions or nuisances
   
19.21.025   Signs
   
19.21.026   Water quality
   
19.21.027   Notice
   
19.21.028   Insurance
   
19.21.029   Severability
   
19.21.030   Zoning provisions to be complied with; community leasing
   
19.21.031   Reserved
   
19.21.032   Determination of exemption
§ 19.21.001 POSITION OF PETROLEUM ADMINISTRATOR ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   The Petroleum Administrator shall have the primary responsibility and
authority to administer and enforce this chapter. The Director of Planning and
Building Services shall serve as Petroleum Administrator, unless another
individual is appointed by the Board of Supervisors of the County of San
Benito.
   (B)   The Petroleum Administrator, or his or her assistants and deputies, in
the performance of the duties herein prescribed, has authority to enter upon
and into any and all premises under his or her jurisdiction at all reasonable
hours for the purpose of inspecting the same to determine whether or not the
provisions of this code and of all other applicable laws or ordinances are
observed therein; provided that a reasonable effort to locate the operator or
other person having charge or control of the property will be made to request
entry and explain the reason for entering.
   (C)   Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the Petroleum Administrator has
reasonable cause to believe that there exists any condition on the property
unsafe or dangerous which may require immediate inspection to safeguard the
public safety, the Petroleum Administrator shall have the right to
immediately enter and inspect such property and may use any reasonable means
required to effect such entry and make such inspection. The operator shall
permit such entry and hold harmless and indemnify the Petroleum Administrator
and the county from any liability in connection with lawful entry hereunder.
   (D)   In the event the Petroleum Administrator is unable to obtain
compliance with any of the terms and provisions of this chapter or a condition
of approval, related to health and safety, he or she may order immediate
cessation of operations. In the event of non-compliance with this chapter or of
a condition of approval not involving a health and safety risk, the Petroleum
Administrator may request that the Planning Commission issue an order for the
immediate cessation of operations. In the event of an order to cease operations
is issued, the Petroleum Administrator shall coordinate with the operator to
ensure that the operator completes the shut-down as soon it can be safely
accomplished, and may require that the operator provide a schedule, subject to
the Petroleum Administrator’s approval, of the timeline and events necessary to
accomplish the shut-down. If such operations are not stopped or if resumed
prior to written approval of the Petroleum Administrator, the Petroleum
Administrator may request civil action by the office of county counsel,
criminal prosecution by the office of the district attorney, or both such
remedies, or may utilize any other available remedies available under the law.
(Ord. 918, § 1(part), 2013)
§ 19.21.002 PURPOSE OF CHAPTER.
   (A)   It is the purpose of this chapter, among other things, to protect the
health, safety, public welfare, physical environment and natural resources of
the county by the reasonable regulation of petroleum facilities and operations,
including but not limited to: exploration; production; storage; processing;
transportation; disposal; plugging and abandonment of wells; and of operations
and equipment accessory and incidental thereto.
   (B)   It is further the intent of the County Board of Supervisors that
petroleum operations shall be permitted within this county (except where
expressly prohibited herein), through a conditional use process further
described in this chapter and in Title 25 (Zoning) of the San Benito County
Code, subject to all applicable laws, regulations and requirements.
   (C)   It is the purpose of this chapter to protect and balance the interests
of the simple fee interest (commonly called surface owner) and mineral
encumbered fee simple interests (commonly called mineral owners) in gaining
access to and making use of the natural resources of San Benito County’s oil
and gas reserves with the concerns of potential risk to the health and safety
of the people of San Benito County. It is also the goal of this chapter to
protect the water, natural resources, wildlife, and air quality of our county,
to permit and supervise the extraction of oil and gas while recognizing that
San Benito County is also the home of other unique natural resources, and to
protect these resources for future generations while contributing to and
acknowledging our dependence on and need for oil and gas and to maintain and
enhance our lifestyles.
   (D)   It is not the intent of this chapter to regulate public utility
operations for the storage or distribution of natural gas. Any drilling,
therein, however, shall be subject to this chapter.
   (E)   All amendments to this code shall be applied in a prospective manner
only, not retrospectively to situations, conditions or facts existing at the
time of or prior to the amendment. Further, this chapter shall only apply to
those applications deemed complete after the effective date of this chapter.
   (F)   The regulations contained within this chapter shall apply to
equipment, structures, and appurtenances necessary for: the drilling of a new
well, facilities for the production of oil and gas from a well; reentering a
previously abandoned well for the production of oil and gas; structures,
equipment, or facilities necessary and incidental to the separation of oil,
gas, and water (e.g., oil and gas separation plant); injection wells and
incidental equipment necessary for enhanced oil recovery or disposal of
production wastes including but not limited to the equipment and facilities
necessary for waterflooding, steam injection, air injection, natural gas,
carbon dioxide injection, or introduction of polymers or other agents;
pipelines that are incidental to production operations; storage tanks necessary
or incidental to oil and gas separation, or temporary storage of separated
hydrocarbons, and equipment for transfer of the produced hydrocarbons to
pipelines or tanker trucks; proposed access roads; oil spill containment and
recovery equipment including but not limited to central office space and
vehicles for the storage of floating air/water separators, pumps, generators,
hosing, assorted absorbent materials, steam cleaners, storage tanks, and other
land and wildlife cleanup equipment; co-located treatment and processing
facilities located on the drill site determined by the Planning Commission to
be incidental to proposed production operations; and hydraulic fracturing, or
use of any secondary or enhanced recovery methods of any new or existing well.
(Ord. 918, § 1(part), 2013)
§ 19.21.003 ADOPTED CODES, REGULATIONS, AND STANDARDS.
   This chapter, insofar as it regulates petroleum operations also regulated by
the California Department of Conservation, Division of Oil, Gas, and Geothermal
Resources (hereinafter “DOGGR”), is intended to supplement such state
regulations and to be in furtherance and support thereof. This chapter shall be
interpreted to be consistent with all provisions of state and federal law
applicable to oil/gas well operations in the county, whether such exists on the
date the ordinance codified in this chapter becomes operative or subsequently
thereafter. Accordingly, where there is conflict with state or federal
regulations or laws, such state or federal regulations or laws shall prevail
over any conflicting provisions of this chapter or contradictory prohibitions
or requirements made pursuant thereto, except where this chapter lawfully
imposes additional or greater requirements pursuant to the county’s exercise of
its inherent land use and police powers.
(Ord. 918, § 1(part), 2013)
§ 19.21.004 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this chapter, the following words and phrases shall have the
meanings respectively ascribed to them by this section.
   APPLICANT. The applicant for the conditional use permit. An APPLICANT shall
not be interpreted to include the surface owner, unless the surface owner is
the applicant for the conditional use permit.
   THE COUNTY. The County of San Benito.
   DRILLING. Any boring into the earth for petroleum operations; but excluding
any well drilled solely for the production of fresh water.
   ENHANCED RECOVERY WELLS (also known as SECONDARY OR TERTIARY RECOVERY).
Inject brine, water, steam, polymers, carbon dioxide, or other gasses into oil-
bearing formations to recover residual oil and in some limited applications
natural gas. The injected fluid thins (decreases the viscosity) or displaces
small amounts of extractable oil and gas, which is then available for recovery.
   FACILITIES. Include tanks, compressors, pumps, vessels, and other large
equipment or structures pertinent to oil field operations sited at a single
location which are related to up to six wells.
   HAZARDOUS MATERIALS. Materials that, because of its quantity, concentration,
or physical or chemical characteristics, pose a significant present or
potential hazard to human health and safety or to the environment if released
into the workplace or the environment, or as otherwise defined by the
California Health and Safety Code.
   HYDRAULIC FRACTURE or HYDRAULIC FRACTURING. A technique used in stimulating
a formation or zone that involves the pressurized injection of hydraulic
fracturing fluid and proppant into an underground geologic formation in order
to fracture the formation, thereby causing or enhancing the production of oil
or gas from a well.
   IDLE WELL and LONG TERM IDLE WELL. Shall be defined as set forth in Cal.
Public Resources Code § 3008(d) and (e).
   INCIDENTAL EQUIPMENT AND APPURTENANCES. Facilities for the collection and/or
separation of petroleum from water or other materials; for storage of water,
petroleum or unrefined petroleum byproducts for recycling, re-pressuring or
injecting such material for underground disposal, use or storage; and for
preparation of such products for shipping and storage. It shall include lease
facilities, processing plants, lease tanks, pipelines, test equipment, and the
like.
   INJECTION WELL. A well used for the purpose of injecting fluids or gas into
the ground.
   OPERATOR. Shall be defined as set forth in Cal. Public Resources Code §
3009.
   PERSON. Shall be defined as set forth in Cal. Public Resources Code § 3005.
   PETROLEUM. Includes crude oil, natural gas and petroleum derivatives.
   PETROLEUM OPERATIONS. All activities in connection with the exploration,
drilling for and the production of petroleum, gas and other hydrocarbons,
together with all incidental equipment and appurtenances thereto until the
abandonment of all wells in accordance with applicable law.
   PIPELINES. For the purposes of this chapter, shall mean all flow lines or
tubes for the transportation of hydrocarbons or their by-products or of
materials used in the production of unrefined hydrocarbons.
   PLUGGED AND ABANDONED WELL. A well that is considered “plugged and
abandoned” by the DOGGR as evidenced by the issuance of a report of well
abandonment and which has complied with all provisions of this chapter.
   POLLUTION. Such contamination, or other alteration of the physical,
chemical, or biological properties of any surface or groundwater within the
county, or such discharge of any liquid or gaseous or solid substance into any
waters within the county as will create a nuisance or render such waters
harmful or detrimental or injurious to public health, safety or welfare, or to
domestic, commercial, industrial, agricultural, recreational, or other
legitimate beneficial uses, or to livestock, wild animals, birds, fish or other
aquatic life.
   PPM. Parts per million.
   PRIMARY RECOVERY PROJECTS. Include any such operation where naturally
occurring hydrocarbons are produced by natural flow, except a project utilizing
a pumping unit or submersible pump which provides “artificial lift” shall also
be considered a PRIMARY RECOVERY PROJECT.
   PRODUCED WATER. Water produced with oil and gas.
   RE-DRILLING. The deepening of an existing well or the creation of a partial
new well bore some distance below the surface of the earth. Typically that
portion of the well bore below the kickoff point for the re-drill has been
plugged and abandoned to DOGGR standards.
   SECONDARY CONTAINMENT. Shall be defined as set forth in Cal. Code of
Regulations Title 14, § 1760.
   TANK SETTING. The area on a lease where tanks are located for collecting,
testing, treating and/or shipping crude oil or other fluids incidental to
petroleum operations.
   WELL. A hole, including a core hole, drilled or being drilled into the earth
for the purpose of obtaining and removing or reintroducing into the ground, any
substance for petroleum operations or which is to be used as an accessory to
the production of petroleum, including the production, injection or disposal of
USEPA designated Class II materials; but excluding any well drilled solely for
the production of fresh water.
   WELL SITE. The premises used during the maintaining, operating and producing
of a well or wells located thereon.
(Ord. 918, § 1(part), 2013)
§ 19.21.005 PERMITS.
   (A)   A conditional use permit in accordance with Title 25 must be obtained
prior to commencing operations.
   (B)   Modification of conditional use permits pertaining to petroleum
operations. When there is any proposal to engage in a secondary or enhanced
recovery operation, or hydraulic fracturing, not specifically described and
approved in the original conditional use permit; or when there is any increase
in the nature or intensity of land use on the site beyond that already analyzed
and approved by the county in a previously approved use permit, a modification
of the conditional use permit shall be required prior to commencement of
operations.
(Ord. 918, § 1(part), 2013)
§ 19.21.006 PERMIT PROCEDURES.
   An application for a conditional use permit, or amended conditional use
permit, for petroleum operations, including oil and gas wells, shall include
all of the following, unless waived or deferred in the discretion of the
Petroleum Administrator, except fees shall not be waived or deferred without
the prior approval of the Board of Supervisors.
   (A)   Plot plan showing the well location, including GPS coordinates,
nearest adjacent well, and any buildings, structures, and/or natural or
artificial features within 200 feet.
   (B)   Fees are payable to the County of San Benito, according to the latest
fee resolution adopted by the Board of Supervisors.
   (C)   Such other pertinent and reasonable information as may be required by
the Petroleum Administrator, including but not limited to environmental data.
   (D)   One copy of each of the DOGGR notice of intent to drill new well and
the DOGGR permit to conduct new well drilling operations if applicant possesses
those notices at the time of application. If not provided at the time of
application, applicant shall provide such notices to the county within ten days
after providing/receiving such notice to/from DOGGR.
   (E)   A drilling plan. Drilling plans shall include, but not be limited to:
      (1)   A location map.
      (2)   Name and address of all parties of interest, including surface
property owners and owners of all petroleum and other mineral interests as
shown on recorded title, and a copy of the title report or short form mineral
lease.
      (3)   A description of the use, size, height, and location of all
proposed wells (as defined and additionally all water wells and proposed
injection wells), drilling pads, production equipment, pipelines, processing
equipment, ancillary structures, containment structures above and in-ground,
and limits of work areas for all phases of the project.
      (4)   A description of the road system and/or road improvements that will
be necessary including ingress, egress, road width and surface treatments.
      (5)   A description of the expected number of vehicle trips required to
implement the proposed project (peak and daily average trip). Include trips
for:
         (a)   Site preparation;
         (b)   Drilling;
         (c)   Production;
         (d)   Processing; and
         (e)   Maintenance.
      (6)   Geological information regarding the area in which drilling is to
occur, including identification of known earthquake faults as recognized by
USGS, wells, or abandoned wells.
      (7)   Distances of project boundaries to property lines, residences,
businesses, and other uses.
      (8)   A description of the measures proposed to prohibit public access to
the site during drilling and all operational activities.
      (9)   A description for all phases of the project including an estimate
of how long the drilling rig will be located on site (including assembly,
disassembly, and removal) and estimate of how long the drilling program will
take. Descriptions of any subsequent phases shall be required.
      (10)   Identify water source(s) and volumes to be used in all processes,
including dust control and any injection down-hole. Identify ownership of the
source or commercial provider, and the method of delivery and distribution.
      (11)   A description of the disposition of the oil, natural gas, natural
gas liquids, and produced water extracted from the well(s), including mode and
route of transportation.
      (12)   A list of any hazardous materials proposed to be stored/
discharged/produced on the property and list and quantify all chemicals to be
used and how and where they would be stored onsite, subject to the provisions
of division (F) of this section. Describe the proposed use and method of
storage and disposal. Indicate if diesel or radiological trace elements are
used.
      (13)   An emergency spill contingency plan consistent with Cal. Code of
Regulations Title 14, Division 2, Chapter 4, § 1722, that would address
unforeseen discharges of oil, produced waters, chemical suites or other
materials.
      (14)   A description of any secondary or enhanced recovery operation or
hydraulic fracturing (anything that enhances the flow of production) proposed
as part of this project. This description shall identify what means will be
employed; the maximum length of any potential horizontal well, all substances,
including chemicals and fluids to be used as part of the secondary or enhanced
recovery operation, and source(s) of water. In identifying chemicals,
applicants must identify each chemical that may be used, except as set forth in
division (F) below.
      (15)   A description of gases and products expected to be found and
extracted at the well site.
      (16)   A description of the maximum expected pressures at the well head
and pipeline.
      (17)   A list of equipment for exploration and production (tanks,
pipelines, number of wells and well cellars, loading racks, combustion
equipment) and indicate the equipment’s operational characteristics (size/
capacity, horsepower rating, etc.):
         (a)   Description of how the drilling rigs will be powered (i.e., via
electricity or via internal combustion engine) and whether the rigs will be
registered with the California Air Resources Board’s Portable Equipment
Registration Program.
         (b)   Calculations for criterion pollutants and greenhouse gas (GHG)
emissions.
      (18)   A process flow diagram for the oil production and gas handling
equipment at the site.
      (19)   Identification of the watershed in which the well will be located.
   (F)   If the chemical(s) required to be disclosed by divisions (E)(12) and
(E)(14) of this section are protected as trade secret information, as defined
in Cal. Civil Code § 3426.1, subdivision (d) or Cal. Penal Code § 499c, the
applicant, or his or her agent, may, upon submittal of declaration under the
penalty of perjury that the chemical is protected trade secret information,
disclose instead the chemical family or similar descriptor associated with the
trade secret constituent.
(Ord. 918, § 1(part), 2013)
§ 19.21.007 SPECIFIC CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL RELATING TO CONDITIONAL USE PERMITS
FOR OIL AND GAS WELL OPERATIONS.
   (A)   Financial assurances/security to guarantee performance. Any applicant
receiving a new conditional use permit involving oil and gas wells, or
receiving an amendment or modification to an existing use permit relating to
oil and gas wells, after the effective date of this chapter, shall provide to
the county’s Planning Department financial assurances in the amount of $15,000
per facility for six and fewer facilities. For applicants with seven or more
facilities, the applicant may provide a blanket bond in the amount of $100,000
for all of applicant’s facilities under a specific conditional use permit. The
proof of financial assurances shall be provided to the Planning Department
prior to beginning any work on site. If more than one bond is provided, each
bond shall allow the bond to be drawn upon for any facility authorized under
the conditional use permit or relating to the conditional use permit as set
forth below. The financial assurance shall be in addition to any bond required
by the state. The applicant may post security in the form of cash, a surety
bond, trust fund, irrevocable letter of credit from an accredited financial
institution or other method acceptable to the county, in a form approved by
County Counsel. The financial assurances shall remain in effect during the
entire time the permit is in force and effect and until the facility has been
properly abandoned in conformity with all regulations of the Division of Oil,
Gas and Geothermal Resources (DOGGR) of the State of California and notice to
that effect has been received by the county. In the event that the bond is
drawn upon, a new bond in the required amount shall be obtained within seven
calendar days. The financial assurances shall guarantee the faithful
performance of all of the conditions of the permit, and of all other pertinent
county rules or regulations. The financial assurances shall further secure the
county against all costs, charges and expenses incurred by it by reason of the
failure of the permittee to comply fully with the provisions of the San Benito
County Code and conditions of approval, and shall guarantee payment of all
costs for removing, dismantling or demolishing, in strict accordance with the
rules and regulations of DOGGR or any regulatory authority having jurisdiction,
any structures erected on the premises, on the abandonment or cessation of the
drilling activity on the permitted premises. The financial assurances shall
also guarantee the payment of all costs of returning the premises to
substantially its original condition, free of all oil, rotary mud, oil-soaked
earth, asphalt, concrete, litter, debris and other substances caused by the
drilling or pumping activity. Substitute financial assurances may be filed in
lieu of any existing financial assurance if it is accepted by the county, and
in a form approved by County Counsel; the existing financial assurance shall
only be exonerated if the Planning Director finds that all of the conditions
have been satisfied and that no default exists as to the performance upon which
the financial assurance is conditioned. A new financial assurance shall be
provided to and accepted by the county upon a change of ownership prior to the
existing bond or financial assurance being exonerated.
   (B)   Well site restoration. Well site restoration shall be in compliance
with all state laws and regulations, as well as with any other applicable
federal or local law, rule or regulation. Applicant shall provide county,
within ten business days, a copy of all documents submitted to the DOGGR
regarding restoration or reclamation of the well site. Applicant shall provide
county notice when final restoration of the well site is completed.
   (C)   All conditional use permits granted pursuant to Title 25 for oil and
gas well operations shall contain the following conditions:
      (1)   Operations shall meet requirements of the Division of Oil, Gas and
Geothermal Resources (DOGGR) and all regulatory agencies of the state that have
authority over the production of petroleum resources.
      (2)   The operator shall file an annual report between January 1 and
March 1 with the County Assessor to coincide with the yearly oil production and
gas production report filed with the Division of Oil and Gas of the state.
      (3)   No vibrations, dust, odor or other harmful effects shall be created
which affect materially any person living or working outside the project area.
Operations shall comply with the county’s noise ordinance.
      (4)   The conditional use permit approval shall specify how all material
disturbed by the drilling process and/or water used in the drilling process
shall be disposed of. The conditional use permit shall specify what material
and fluids shall be allowed to remain on site, and what materials/fluids shall
be removed to an appropriate landfill. All material removed from the earth as a
part of the drilling and recovered water shall be disposed of as set forth in
the conditional use permit approval.
      (5)   Additional conditions of approval may include, but shall not be
limited to the following:
         (a)   Requirements to install impervious liners in sumps to prevent
seepage or fencing beyond that which would be required by law; and
         (b)   Visual screening or landscaping to hide operations and equipment
from view; and
         (c)   Requirements to reduce any impacts identified in the
environmental analysis; and
         (d)   Any specific requirements regarding fire-fighting equipment that
shall be provided and maintained; and
         (e)   Requirements to install sanitary facilities in a manner approved
by the county’s Health Department; and
         (f)   Other conditions deemed necessary to protect the public health,
safety and general welfare.
(Ord. 918, § 1(part), 2013)
§ 19.21.008 FEES RELATING TO CONDITIONAL USE PERMITS FOR OIL AND GAS WELL
OPERATIONS.
   (A)   An amount, established by a resolution of the Board of Supervisors of
this county, shall be charged for each conditional use permit application. The
fee shall be based on a time/materials basis as may be established from time to
time by the Board of Supervisors. Such fees shall cover all actual costs of any
outside consultants hired to assist county with project-related activities.
   (B)   Mitigation monitoring fees. The county may charge reasonable fees to
recover the cost of the program. Such fees shall be imposed to recover the
costs of implementation and enforcement of mitigation measures that require
field inspection, continuous or long-term monitoring, or the preparation and/or
review of reports by county staff and/or outside consultants retained by the
county. Any such fees shall be approved by the Board of Supervisors before
being imposed.
   (C)   Inspection fees. The county recognizes that the DOGGR performs
inspections of each lease, well and facility and well and operations specific
inspections for well drilling, re-working, and plugging activities. In the
event that DOGGR fails to make the required inspections, or at the discretion
of the Petroleum Administrator, each lease site, each tank site, producing well
site, idle well site and lease tank site (including headers and associated
pipelines), may be inspected for the purpose of ascertaining conformity with
the minimum standards as set forth in this chapter and for compliance with all
terms and conditions of the approved conditional use permit. To meet the
expense of such inspection, the operator shall pay to the Department of
Planning and Building Inspection Services an inspection fee to be established
by a resolution of the Board of Supervisors of this county. Unless a different
schedule is established by the Board of Supervisors in the future, it is the
goal of the county that all active or producing wells should be inspected at
least on an annual basis to ensure compliance with this chapter and all
conditions of approval.
   (D)   Enforcement fee. Any person or entity, whether as principal, agent,
employee, or otherwise, who acts or fails to act in violation of any provision
of this chapter,
Chapter 21.01 (Building Regulations), or
Chapter 19.17 (Grading, Drainage, and Erosion Control), or any other provision
of the San Benito County Code, any of the adopted Uniform Codes, or state or
federal regulation and statutory law shall be liable for and obligated to pay
to the county all reasonable costs incurred by the county in obtaining
abatement or compliance which is attributable to or associated with the
enforcement or abatement action, whether such action is administrative,
injunctive, or legal, and for all damages suffered by the county, its agents,
officers, and employees as a result of such violation or efforts to abate the
violation.
(Ord. 918, § 1(part), 2013)
§ 19.21.009 NOTICES.
   (A)   Each operator must submit the following notices, in writing, to the
Petroleum Administrator, at least 15 days prior to commencement of said
operation/occurrence:
      (1)   Change of idle well status to producing or injection status.
      (2)   Intention to engage in any secondary or enhanced recovery
operations or hydraulic fracturing, when that process has been studied under
the California Environment Quality Act as part of the project and/or approved
as part of the conditional use permit. If the secondary or enhanced recovery
operation, or the hydraulic fracturing has not been approved, an amended use
permit shall be required, unless the County Planning Commission provides
applicant in writing a determination that the secondary or enhanced recovery
operation or the hydraulic fracturing proposed is already a vested right based
upon evidence provided by the applicant.
      (3)   Intention to install, remove, re-start or replace permanent
production facilities (piping, vessels, tanks and equipment) that have been
idle for more than five years.
      (4)   Transfer of operator. The operator of (or any person who acquires)
any well, property, or equipment appurtenant thereto, whether by purchase,
transfer, assignment, conveyance, exchange or otherwise, shall each notify the
Petroleum Administrator within ten days of the transaction closing date. The
notice shall contain the following: the names and addresses of the person from
whom and to whom the well(s) and property changed; the name and location of the
well(s) and property; the date of acquisition; the date possession changed; a
description of the properties and equipment transferred; and the new operator’s
agent or person designated for service of notice and his or her address.
      (5)   Notification of reportable oil and/or gas releases must be given to
the California Emergency Management Agency and by contacting the agencies
specified in the operator’s oil spill contingency plan, and notice shall be
given to the Petroleum Administrator within 72 hours of the release.
Additionally, the operator must submit a copy of the community awareness and
emergency response (CAER) form within 24 hours.
   (B)   Each operation must submit the following documents to the county
within ten days of submitting or receiving such documents to/from DOGGR:
      (1)   DOGGR notices, approvals, and/or permits including, but not limited
to: notice of intent to drill new well, notice of intent to plug and abandon
well, approval to conduct new well drilling operations, and/or approval to
conduct plugging and abandonment operations; and
      (2)   Any DOGGR final summary of operations and history report on new
well completion and DOGGR report of well abandonment and history report on
abandonment operations; and
      (3)   Any citations, notices of correction or violations, or other
notices indicating changes or improvements needed by operator, issued by DOGGR
or any other federal, state or local agency; and
      (4)   Any reports or other documents prepared as a result or documenting
DOGGR’s annual inspection.
   (C)   Through the future adoption of a “Document Submission Policy” by
resolution, the Board of Supervisors may waive or clarify the requirement to
submit any of the above documents, allow the electronic submission of these
documents, or allow the provision of electronic links to filed documents.
(Ord. 918, § 1(part), 2013)
§ 19.21.010 SPILL CONTROL PLAN.
   Each operator shall have on file with the Petroleum Administrator a copy of
their spill prevention, control and countermeasure plan(s) (SPCC plan) required
by the United States Environmental Protection Agency (USEPA). In addition,
every operator shall submit to the county, the spill contingency plan (SPC)
submitted to the DOGGR in compliance with Cal. Public Resources Code § 3270.1.
(Ord. 918, § 1(part), 2013)
§ 19.21.011 STATE AND FEDERAL LAWS.
   At all times, applicant shall comply with all state, federal, and local laws
and regulations.
(Ord. 918, § 1(part), 2013)
§ 19.21.012 SERVICE OF NOTICE.
   Every operator of any well shall designate an agent who is a resident of the
state upon whom all orders and notices provided in this chapter may be served
in person, or by registered or certified mail. Every operator so designating
such agent shall, within ten days, notify the Petroleum Administrator, in
writing, of any change in such agent or such mailing address, unless operations
within the county are discontinued. Service by registered or certified mail, or
in person, to the agent so designated, shall constitute service for all
purposes of this chapter.
(Ord. 918, § 1(part), 2013)
§ 19.21.013 EXTENSION OR WAIVERS.
   (A)   Whenever, in this chapter time limits are specified for the
commencement or completion of any acts or for ceasing to perform any acts, such
time limits may be extended in writing by the Petroleum Administrator for good
cause shown.
   (B)   The Planning Commission or the Board of Supervisors may also modify or
waive compliance with any of the terms or provisions of this chapter when such
provisions are rendered unnecessary or unreasonable by the special features of
the well site (such as topography, nature of the use, proximity to buildings on
adjoining property, height, type of buildings, proposed mitigation features and
the nature of the oil field development) and the modification or waiver is
deemed to be reasonable and in accordance with good oil field practice. In
connection with such modification or waiver, the Planning Commission or Board
of Supervisors may require equivalent measures when they are needed.
   (C)   The Petroleum Administrator may only waive or modify terms or
provisions within this chapter for which he or she has been delegated
responsibility. In connection with such modification or waiver, the Petroleum
Administrator may require equivalent measures when they are needed.
(Ord. 918, § 1(part), 2013)
§ 19.21.014 VESTED RIGHTS/LEGAL NON-CONFORMING OPERATIONS.
   No person who obtained a vested right to conduct drilling operations prior
to the effective date of this chapter, shall be required to secure a new
conditional use permit for those drilling operations already vested, so long as
the vested right has been exercised continuously without being abandoned and as
long as no substantial changes have been made in the operation since the vested
right was first obtained. Absent a finding of a vested use by the Planning
Commission, a new, changed, or modified method of a secondary or enhanced
recovery or the use of hydraulic fracturing shall be deemed to be a substantial
change which would require an amendment to an existing conditional use permit.
Legal non-conforming oil/gas operation shall not be expanded or altered without
compliance with this chapter.
(Ord. 918, § 1(part), 2013)
§ 19.21.015 PENALTIES.
   (A)   Violation; criminal penalties. Any person violating any provisions of
this chapter is guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
punished as provided in
Chapter 1.03 of this code and/or state law.
   (B)   Violation; public nuisance. Any violation of this chapter is unlawful
and a public nuisance and shall be abated, eliminated and enjoined as provided
in
Chapter 1.03 of this code and/or state law.
   (C)   Remedies; cumulative. Except as otherwise provided by law, the
remedies in this chapter are cumulative and not exclusive. Nothing in this
chapter is intended or shall be deemed or construed to limit or impair the
ability of the county, or any of its officers, agents or employees, to take any
administrative or judicial action, otherwise authorized by law,
Chapter 1.03 of this code and/or state law to abate any public nuisance.
   (D)   Each day of noncompliance constitutes a separate offense.
(Ord. 918, § 1(part), 2013)
§ 19.21.016 APPEALS.
   (A)   Appeals from decisions, interpretations, or acts of the Petroleum
Administrator or the Planning Commission shall be filed in writing to the Clerk
of the Board of Supervisors. Appeals shall be filed within ten days of the act
by the Petroleum Administrator or the Planning Commission. The Board of
Supervisors shall serve as the “local appeals board” which is hereby expressly
declared to be the local appeals board referred to in Cal. Health and Safety
Code §§ 17920.5 and 17925. Such board of appeals is hereby authorized to hear
appeals regarding the petroleum requirements of the county and shall have all
of the power and authority conferred on a local appeals board under the said
sections of the Health and Safety Code. All decisions of the Board of
Supervisors shall be deemed final, subject only to judicial review.
   (B)   Any appeal to the Board of Supervisors hereunder shall be posted as
required under the Brown Act. In cases where the Petroleum Administrator or the
Planning Commission deems compliance with his, her, or its decision to be
necessary to prevent an imminent threat to public health or safety or to
prevent immediate environmental damage, the Petroleum Administrator or the
Planning Commission may require compliance with his, her, or its decision
pending outcome of an appeal to the board of appeals.
   (C)   A fee, as adopted by the Board of Supervisors, shall be paid to the
Clerk of the Board at the time of application for an appeal hearing. The
hearing fee shall be refunded in cases where the applicant has substantially
prevailed.
(Ord. 918, § 1(part), 2013)
§ 19.21.017 SPACING AND LOCATION.
   No wells, containment facilities used for storing petroleum (e.g., storage
reservoirs, pits, storage tanks, and excavations), or above-ground equipment
shall be located within 500 feet of the nearest edge of the normally traveled
portion of any public road, road offered for dedication, highway, property
line, or building (except as may be incidental to the operation thereof). The
Planning Commission may consider granting an exception to this 500 foot setback
area if the site is constrained by environmental hazards (as defined in the
open space element of the county’s general plan), or if other features of the
site, such as habitat areas, topography and landscaping or other vegetation
make placement outside the setback area not desirable.
(Ord. 918, § 1(part), 2013)
§ 19.21.018 GRADING.
   (A)   Roads and other excavations and the well site shall be planned,
constructed and maintained to control dust, mud, erosion, noise, and debris, so
as to result in the least possible disfigurement of the environment and to keep
soil erosion and aesthetic disfigurement to a minimum. The location and
construction of all roads, culverts, excavations and drainage structures shall
be subject to the approval of the Petroleum Administrator and such special
drainage, planting, spraying or control measures shall be installed as may be
necessary to prevent excessive soil erosion or other damage. Any grading
associated with petroleum operations may require a grading permit as specified
in the San Benito County Code. Soil compaction shall be sufficient to handle
any and all equipment expected on-site, as well as expected future uses of the
land. All fill within a drill site comply with all local, state, or federal
laws and regulations.
   (B)   Soil erosion control plans, including provisions for stabilizing
filled and excavated areas by planting and other means, installation of
drainage ditches and culverts, and construction of dikes, levees and debris
dams, will be consistent with methods and techniques recognized by county,
state and federal authorities. Each operator will notify the Petroleum
Administrator as to the responsible individual appointed to represent the
operator concerning these problems.
   (C)   Roads to/from the well site shall be constructed sufficient to
accommodate emergency vehicles to/from the well site at all times.
(Ord. 918, § 1(part), 2013)
§ 19.21.019 DRILLING AND WELL SERVICING STRUCTURES.
   All drilling and well servicing structures shall be portable, be of proper
design, and be maintained to sufficiently perform the intended job. The
Petroleum Administrator may require proof as to the capacity of any equipment.
(Ord. 918, § 1(part), 2013)
§ 19.21.020 PIPING.
   All piping systems shall be designed, constructed, operated and maintained
in accordance with all applicable state and federal laws and regulations. If
the pipeline systems are found to be unreliable or deficient, the Petroleum
Administrator may order the repair or replacement of the pipeline section or
system, as necessary to remedy the situation. The Petroleum Administrator may
require tests and inspections to establish the reliability of pipeline systems
not specifically regulated or inspected by state or federal authorities
(including testing, treating, and storage facilities).
(Ord. 918, § 1(part), 2013)
§ 19.21.021 FIRE PREVENTION AND CONTROL EQUIPMENT.
   A minimum of two fire extinguishers shall be maintained at each tank battery
and at all well locations where drilling, servicing or repair work is being
conducted. Each such extinguisher shall have a minimum classification of 10 ABC
as set forth in National Fire Protection Association No. 10, “Standard for the
Installation for Portable Fire Extinguishers,” and any amendments or successors
thereto. No waste gas venting will be permitted, unless specifically authorized
by DOGGR or state law. The well site shall be kept clear and clean of all
grass, brush, refuse or other inflammable materials.
(Ord. 918, § 1(part), 2013)
§ 19.21.022 REMOVAL OF DRILLING AND SERVICE EQUIPMENT.
   Drilling operations in any well shall be diligently prosecuted until the
well is completed or abandoned. All drilling equipment and the derrick shall be
removed from the drill site and leased premises within 60 days following the
completion or abandonment of any well, unless the drilling equipment and
derrick are stored behind a solid fence, allowed by the use permit, or
permitted to be temporarily stored on the drill site by written authority of
the Petroleum Administrator after the derrick has been lowered. Service
equipment for existing wells will likewise be removed within 60 days of
completion of the rework, unless otherwise permitted by the Petroleum
Administrator. Idle equipment remaining on the property for more than 60 days
shall be stored and maintained behind a solid fence which blocks the equipment
from view if that equipment is located less than 200 feet to any occupied
structure, property line, or road.
(Ord. 918, § 1(part), 2013)
§ 19.21.023 SURFACE INSPECTIONS.
   Well sites and well operations may be subject to periodic inspections by the
Petroleum Administrator. Any noncompliance items noted during an inspection may
be brought to the attention of the operator, agent, or their representative for
corrective action. Failure to correct noncompliance items is a violation of the
provisions of this code, and thereby constitutes grounds for an order to cease
noncompliant operations and/or other penalties as specified in this chapter.
(Ord. 918, § 1(part), 2013)
§ 19.21.024 HAZARDOUS CONDITIONS OR NUISANCES.
   (A)   In the event that the Petroleum Administrator determines at any time
that any operations covered under this chapter constitute an imminent threat to
public health, safety or the environment, he or she shall have the right to
compel the operator to take appropriate action, within a time frame identified
by the Petroleum Administrator, to mitigate the situation. In the event that
the operator cannot be located, the Petroleum Administrator may take the
necessary steps to mitigate the immediate threat and stabilize the situation,
until such time as the operator can respond. The operator shall be responsible
for reimbursement of all reasonable costs to the county associated with the
mitigation activities.
   (B)   In the event that substantial damage to the environment and/or public
health results from the activity listed above, the operator shall be
responsible for remediation of such damage within a reasonable period of time.
If, in the judgment of the Petroleum Administrator, such remediation activities
are not initiated within a reasonable period of time, the Petroleum
Administrator may issue a notice of intent to initiate remediation and that the
operator shall be responsible for funding the remediation. The county shall
issue said notice at least 30 days prior to commencement of remedial
activities. The operator may respond by 1) initiating remedial activities
within the 30-day period, or 2) filing an appeal. In the absence of one of
these actions the county may order the remediation at the cost of the operator.
Notwithstanding the above, the 30-day notice period may be waived by the County
Board of Supervisors in cases of imminent danger to environment or to the
public. In such case, the Petroleum Administrator shall specify the time period
in which the operator must initiate remedial action or file an appeal.
(Ord. 918, § 1(part), 2013)
§ 19.21.025 SIGNS.
   Operators must meet all DOGGR, OSHA and EPA sign requirements.
(Ord. 918, § 1(part), 2013)
§ 19.21.026 WATER QUALITY.
   (A)   Except as expressly allowed for by other applicable laws or
regulations or except as expressly authorized by a permit issued by another
regulatory or governmental agency, it shall be unlawful (1) to dispose of any
water produced from drilling operations or any other mineral or material in
such a manner that it may be injurious to animals, soil, plant life or if the
same will pollute any water supply; or (2) for any person to pollute or allow
pollution from petroleum operations into any waters within, or watershed area
in, San Benito County. Further, all well drilling or petroleum operations which
may penetrate near or into usable water-bearing strata including, without
limitation, wells, shall not subject the groundwater basin or sub-basin to
pollution or contamination.
   (B)   For projects utilizing secondary or enhanced recovery operations or
hydraulic fracturing, water quality testing of the surrounding fresh water
aquifer up to a distance of one mile from the well-site in any new well fields,
may, if specified by the county as a condition of approval during the approval
process, be required before, during (at the discretion of the Petroleum
Administrator), and after the proposed process and upon capping or abandonment
of the well in order to ensure that the project does not impact water quality.
Applicant shall allow water quality testing to be performed on the subject
property in any well which applicant has legal right to access by an individual
or entity designated by the Petroleum Administrator. In addition to, or in lieu
of, testing to be performed on the subject property, the Petroleum
Administrator may direct water quality testing to be performed on property
within one mile of the well-site with the landowner’s permission. Where
possible, testing shall be performed hydrologically downgradient or in the
location most likely to reveal any water quality issues related to the
drilling, as may be determined by the Petroleum Administrator and/or his or her
designee. Water testing shall be targeted to reveal any chemicals used in the
drilling process and changes related to the drilling process. If required as a
condition of approval, water testing shall include baseline water testing and
annual water quality testing when enhanced recovery or hydraulic fracturing
methods are used. A fee to cover the expenses of water quality testing may be
established by the Board of Supervisors by resolution.
(Ord. 918, § 1(part), 2013)
§ 19.21.027 NOTICE.
   (A)   Notice of any hearing before the Planning Commission or Board of
Supervisors shall be mailed or delivered at least ten days prior to the hearing
to all owners of real property as shown on the latest equalized assessment roll
within one mile of the real property that is the subject of the hearing by the
County Planning Department. In lieu of using the assessment roll, the local
agency may use records of the county assessor or tax collector which contain
more recent information than the assessment roll. Notice shall also be provided
to any water district, water quality control district and/or air quality
control district having jurisdiction where the project is located.
   (B)   The failure of any person or entity to receive notice given pursuant
to this chapter shall not constitute grounds for any court to invalidate the
actions of a local agency for which the notice was given.
(Ord. 918, § 1(part), 2013)
§ 19.21.028 INSURANCE.
   All operators in San Benito County shall continually carry a public
liability insurance policy in the amount of at least $2,000,000 per incident.
The county shall be named as additional insured in the policy and shall be
furnished a certificate of insurance. The policy of insurance shall provide for
a 30-day notice to the county of cancellation by carrier in the event of
cancellation of the policy.
(Ord. 918, § 1(part), 2013)
§ 19.21.029 SEVERABILITY.
   If any section, subsection, sentence, clause, or phrase of this code or the
application thereof to any person or circumstance is for any reason held to be
unconstitutional or invalid, such decision shall not affect the validity of the
remaining portions of this code or the application of such provisions to other
persons or circumstances. The San Benito County Board of Supervisors hereby
declares that it would have approved this code or any section, subsection,
sentence, clause, or phrase hereto, irrespective of the fact that any one or
more sections, subsections, sentences, clauses or phrases should be declared to
be unconstitutional.
(Ord. 918, § 1(part), 2013)
§ 19.21.030 ZONING PROVISIONS TO BE COMPLIED WITH; COMMUNITY LEASING.
   Permits under this chapter shall be granted in accordance with Title 25 of
this code. Minimum well drilling sites shall be one acre in the agricultural,
residential and manufacturing zones. Community leasing of property within a one
acre area may be permitted for the establishing of a drilling site.
(1966 Code, § 11-14) (Ord. 185, § 8; Ord. 918, § 2, 2013)
Cross-reference:
   Zoning, see Title 25 of this code
§ 19.21.031 RESERVED.
§ 19.21.032 DETERMINATION OF EXEMPTION.
   (A)   Purpose and intent. The purpose and intent of this section is to
provide an administrative procedure for determining whether a land use that is
normally not allowed in compliance with §
19.21.031 (Compliance with the Protect Our Water and Health: Ban Fracking
Initiative), § 25.29.161 (Prohibition of Land Uses Supporting High-Intensity
Petroleum Operations), or § 25.29.162 (Prohibition of Land Uses Supporting
Petroleum Operations in Rural and Residential Districts) is exempt from the
prohibitions of those sections as allowed by Measure J: the Petroleum
Initiative which the Board of Supervisors voted to submit without alteration to
the voters on May 6, 2014 ("the Initiative"). This section only codifies an
administrative process for claims of exemption that neither enlarges nor
narrows the exemptions contained in the Initiative as set forth below:
      (1)   Section 5 of the Initiative (Exemptions for Certain Projects)
provides that the provisions of the Initiative shall not be applicable to the
extent, but only to the extent, that they would violate the constitution or
laws of the United States or the State of California.
      (2)   Section 5 of the Initiative (Exemptions for Certain Projects)
provides that in the event a property owner contends that application of the
Initiative effects an unconstitutional taking of property, the property owner
may request, and the Board may grant, an exception to application of any
provision of this Initiative if the Board of Supervisors finds, based on
substantial evidence, that both (1) the application of any aspect of this
Initiative would constitute an unconstitutional taking of property, and (2) the
exception will allow additional or continued land uses only to the minimum
extent necessary to avoid such a taking.
      (3)   Section 3 of the Initiative provides in proposed § 25.29.162, that
"This § 25.29.162 shall not apply to any land use in support of Low Intensity
Petroleum Operations that has obtained a vested right (including any legal
nonconforming operations) as of this section's effective date.
      (4)   Section 2 of the Initiative provides in Proposed Policy 21, that:
         (a)   "Within one year of the effective date, the owners and operators
of all vested High-Intensity Petroleum Operations" shall bring land uses into
conformity with this Policy. Land uses may support Low-Intensity Petroleum
Operations, in compliance with all applicable law, on properties formerly
supporting High-Intensity Petroleum Operations.
         (b)   The one-year amortization period may be extended on a case-by-
case basis if the Planning Commission determines that a well owner or operator
has shown that one year is not a reasonable amortization period pursuant to
state law. Any extension shall not exceed two years (in addition to the initial
one-year period for a total of three years) and may be only for the minimum
length of time necessary to provide a reasonable amortization period.
         (c)   All Planning Commission determinations made under this Policy
must be made at a duly noticed public hearing.
   (B)   Applicability.
      (1)   Persons subject to the Initiative may file applications for
exemption determinations associated with divisions (A)(2), (3), and (4) above.
This §
19.21.032 (Determination of Exemption) applies to any person seeking such
exemption determinations.
      (2)   Review authority.
         (a)   The review authority for a Determination of Exemption is
identified in Table
19.21.032(1) (Determination of Exemption Review Authorities) below.
   Table 19.20.032(1) Determination of Exemption Review Authorities
 
                                                                          Role of Review Authority
Type of Exemption                                                         Director Planning   Board of
                                                                                   Commission Supervisors
Determination of Exemption Associated with §                                               Decision
19.21.032(A)(2) (Exceptions to Avoid Unconstitutional Takings)
Determination of Exemption Associated with §                             Decision Appeal     Appeal
19.21.032(A)(3) (“Low Intensity Vested Rights” Determinations)
Determination of Exemption Associated with §                                     Decision   Appeal
19.21.032(A)(4) (“High Intensity Vested Rights” Amortization Requests)
 
         (b)   Applications. A separate application for a determination of
exemption shall be filed for each type of exemption requested.
   (C)   Contents of application and review for completeness.
      (1)   Any application for a determination of exemption allowed in
compliance with division (B) (Applicability) shall be submitted by the
applicant seeking the exemption.
      (2)   (a)   The applicant for any exemption shall submit as part of the
application any and all evidentiary support reasonably available sufficient to
establish the basis for the claim of exemption.
         (b)   The filing of an application for a Determination of Exemption
associated with §
19.21.032(A)(2) shall be accompanied by an application for the development
project for which the exemption determination is requested.
            1.   The Director may waive the requirement to submit the
application for the development project for good cause.
            2.   Where the Director has waived the requirement for a
development application, if the Board determines such an application is
necessary to determine if the exemption applies, the Board may require such
application to be filed and processed before the County will take final action
on the application for the exemption.
   (D)   Processing.
      (1)   Applications under the jurisdiction of the Board. The following
applies to the processing of applications for determinations of exemption
associated with §
19.21.032(A)(2).
         (a)   The Board shall hold at least one noticed public hearing on the
application and shall approve, conditionally approve or deny the request.
         (b)   At least ten days prior to the public hearing, the Clerk of the
Board shall give notice thereof by at least one publication in a newspaper of
general circulation. Additionally, notice of the hearing shall be given by mail
or delivery to all persons including businesses, or other public or private
entities shown on the last equalized assessment roll as owning real property
within 300 feet of the property which is subject of the proposed development
project.
         (c)   The hearing shall be held within 180 days of the determination
that the application is complete. For good cause the Director may delay the
holding of the hearing for an additional 180 days.
         (d)   The Board may continue the hearing to allow or require the
applicant or Department to submit additional information or legal analysis.
         (e)   The action of the Board shall be final.
      (2)   Applications under the jurisdiction of the Director. The following
applies to the processing of applications for determinations of exemption
associated with §
19.21.032(A)(3).
         (a)   The Director shall approve, conditionally approve or deny the
application for the determination of exemption. A public hearing is not
required.
         (b)   The Director shall act on the application within 60 days after
the application is determined to be complete. However, the Director may extend
this period of time to allow or require the applicant or Department to submit
additional information or legal analysis or other good cause.
         (c)   The action of the Director is final subject to appeal in
compliance with the San Benito County Code,
Chapter 25.47 (Appeals).
         (d)   Any person may make a written request to the Director to receive
notice of exemption determinations made under this section. Within five
business days of the Director's determination of an exemption, notice of the
determination shall be provided by direct notice by first class mail (or email
if requested by requestor) to persons who have submitted written requests for
such notice.
      (3)   Applications under the jurisdiction of the Planning Commission. The
following applies to the processing of applications for determinations of
exemption associated with §
19.21.032(A)(4).
         (a)   The Planning Commission shall hold at least one noticed public
hearing on the application and shall approve, conditionally approve or deny the
application for the determination of exemption.
         (b)   At least ten days prior to the public hearing, the Planning
Director or his or her designee, shall give notice thereof by at least one
publication in a newspaper of general circulation. Additionally, notice of the
hearing shall be given by mail or delivery to all persons including businesses,
or other public or private entities shown on the last equalized assessment roll
as owning real property within 300 feet of the subject.
         (c)   The hearing shall be held within 180 days of the determination
that the application is complete. For good cause the Director may delay the
holding of the hearing for an additional 180 days.
         (d)   The Planning Commission may continue the hearing to allow or
require the applicant or Department to submit additional information or legal
analysis.
         (e)   The action of the Planning Commission shall be final subject to
appeal in compliance with the San Benito County Code,
Chapter 25.47 (Appeals).
   (E)   Findings required for approval. A determination of exemption
application shall be approved or conditionally approved only if the review
authority first makes one of the following findings, as applicable.
      (1)   Applications for determinations of exemption associated with §
19.21.032(A)(2). There is sufficient evidence in the record to determine that
approving or conditionally approving the application is required in order to
avoid an unconstitutional taking of property and that the application, as
approved, will allow additional or continued land uses only to the minimum
extent necessary to avoid such a taking.
      (2)   Applications for determinations of exemption associated with §
19.21.032(A)(3). There is sufficient evidence in the record to establish that
the applicant obtained prior to the effective date of the Initiative, a vested
right to conduct a Low- Intensity Petroleum Operation.
      (3)   Applications for determinations of exemption associated with §
19.21.032(A)(4). There is sufficient evidence in the record to establish that
(1) the applicant obtained prior to the effective date of the Initiative, a
vested right to conduct a High Intensity Petroleum Operation; (2) approving or
conditionally approving the application is required because the applicant has
shown that a one year amortization period is not a reasonable amortization
period pursuant to state law; and (3) that the extension, not to exceed two
years, is no longer than the minimum length of time necessary to provide a
reasonable amortization period.
   (F)   Enforcement. The Director shall not take any action to enforce the
Initiative against any owner or operator of an existing facility if an
application for a determination of exemption has been filed in compliance with
this §
19.21.032 (Determination of Exemption) and the application has not expired, or
final action to deny the application has not occurred.
(Ord. 930, § 1, 2014)
CHAPTER 19.23: PARKS
Section
   
19.23.001   Title
   
19.23.002   Purpose
   
19.23.003   Findings
   
19.23.004   Effective date
   
19.23.005   Prohibited activities
   
19.23.006   Penalties
Cross-reference:
   County Highways and Parks Adoption Program, see
Chapter 19.09 of this code
   Memorial Park Commission, see
Chapter 3.05, Article IV, of this code
   Park and Recreation Impact Fees, see
Chapter 5.01, Article IV, of this code
   Park Visitor Entrance and User Fees, see
Chapter 5.01, Article V, of this code
   Parks and Recreation Commission, see
Chapter 3.05, Article VIII, of this code
§ 19.23.001 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as the “Parks-San Justo Reservoir Recreation
Area User Regulations”.
(1966 Code, § 11C-1) (Ord. 655, § 1(part))
§ 19.23.002 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to specify those activities which are
prohibited at the San Justo Reservoir recreation areas and to specify the
penalties and enforcement authority for chapter violations.
(1966 Code, § 11C-2) (Ord. 655, § 1(part))
§ 19.23.003 FINDINGS.
   (A)   Public health, safety and welfare demand that certain activities,
which create a risk of harm to persons or property, be prohibited.
   (B)   It is particularly important to identify prohibitions associated with
the use of the reservoir, as a water body, because the recreation area is
frequented by both adults and children.
   (C)   It is in the public interest to clearly specify the regulations for
users of the San Justo Reservoir recreation area.
   (D)   The prohibitions specified in § 19.23.005 are necessary to protect
public health, safety and welfare, and to protect county property and the water
quality of the reservoir.
   (E)   It is necessary to provide enforcement authority for county peace
officers.
(1966 Code, § 11C-3) (Ord. 655, § 1(part))
§ 19.23.004 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   The penalties and enforcement authority specified by this chapter shall
become effective on the date the ordinance codified in this chapter becomes
effective.
(1966 Code, § 11C-4) (Ord. 655, § 1(part))
§ 19.23.005 PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES.
   (A)   The following activities are prohibited activities at the San Justo
Reservoir recreation area:
      (1)   Swimming;
      (2)   Diving;
      (3)   Camping;
      (4)   Hunting;
      (5)   Possession and/or use of firearms, airguns and arrows;
      (6)   Building fires outside fireboxes;
      (7)   Entrance into the recreation area at times other than posted open
hours;
      (8)   Refusal to leave the recreation area at closing time;
      (9)   Operation of watercraft with internal combustion engines, except by
county peace officers, county or water district officials or county
concessionaires in connection with the performance of their official duties;
      (10)   Vandalism of recreation area property;
      (11)   Fishing from the dock and ramp;
      (12)   Parking on the boat ramp;
      (13)   Leaving children under the age of 12 years unattended by a
supervising adult;
      (14)   Failure to keep pets on leashes;
      (15)   Operation of motor vehicles in areas other than the designated
road and parking areas;
      (16)   Parking in areas other than the areas specifically posted or
designated for parking. The Public Works Director shall designate specific
parking areas solely for motor vehicles and specific parking areas solely for
boat trailers with tow vehicles;
      (17)   Operation of boats more than 16 feet in size; and
      (18)   Littering.
   (B)   A list of the prohibited activities shall be posted on site at the San
Justo Reservoir recreation area.
(1966 Code, § 11C-5) (Ord. 655, § 1(part))
§ 19.23.006 PENALTIES.
   (A)   Violation of § 19.23.005 of this chapter shall be considered a
misdemeanor offense, and individuals arrested for the violation shall be issued
a citation in accordance with Cal. Penal Code § 853.6(a).
   (B)   Upon conviction of any misdemeanor offense, the punishment shall be
administered in accordance with applicable provisions of the Penal Code. Cal.
Penal Code § 19 provides in part that misdemeanor offenses are “punishable by
imprisonment in the county jail not exceeding six months, or by fine not
exceeding $1,000, or both”.
(1966 Code, § 11C-6) (Ord. 655, § 1(part))
CHAPTER 19.25: PLAN LINES
Section
   
19.25.001   Short title
   
19.25.002   Purpose
   
19.25.003   Definitions
   
19.25.004   Plan line maps generally
   
19.25.005   Index map
   
19.25.006   Incorporation of plan line maps
   
19.25.007   Initiation of proceedings
   
19.25.008   Referral to Road Department
   
19.25.009   Hearing; notice; report and recommendation
   
19.25.010   Authority to designate plan lines
   
19.25.011   Resolution of intention; hearing; notice
   
19.25.012   Same; effect
   
19.25.013   Same; protest
   
19.25.014   Authority of the Board of Supervisors
   
19.25.015   Effect of adoption of plan line map
   
19.25.016   Yard requirements
   
19.25.017   Setback terms defined
   
19.25.018   Non-conforming structures
   
19.25.019   Compliance with other ordinances
   
19.25.020   Administrative relief
   
19.25.021   Appeals
   
19.25.022   Acquisition proceedings
   
19.25.023   Violation of chapter deemed nuisance
§ 19.25.001 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and designated as the “Plan Line Ordinance”.
(1966 Code, § 12B-1) (Ord. 292, § 1)
§ 19.25.002 PURPOSE.
   In order to promote, coordinate and secure orderly, efficient, economical
and consistent development, plans and improvements, plan lines for the
reservation of future rights-of-way are hereby adopted in order:
   (A)   To provide for the systematic execution of the circulation element of
the General Plan of the county, by designating the precise location of planned
rights-of-way and limiting the location of structures with respect to planned
rights-of-way;
   (B)   To assist in providing a definite plan of development for the county
and to guide, control and regulate the future growth of the county;
   (C)   To serve as a general guide for the development of streets and
highways and public transportation facilities;
   (D)   To provide a comprehensive guide for capital outlay on street and
highway improvements in the county;
   (E)   To provide an authentic source of information as to the development of
the county for present and prospective residents and investors therein;
   (F)   To reserve areas for future widening, extension or creation of
streets, highways and public transportation facilities or space for future
pedestrian ways, vision clearance, fire and police emergency access, access to
property and for other essential public services; and
   (G)   To obviate the menace to the public safety and the damage to property
values resulting from inadequate provision for traffic thoroughfares.
(1966 Code, § 12B-2) (Ord. 292, § 2)
§ 19.25.003 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following words and phrases shall have
the meanings respectively ascribed to them by this section.
   APPLICANT. Any person applying for a building permit within the county.
   LOT. Any lots, parcel or other real property situate within the county.
   NOTICE OF APPEAL. A written statement, filed on prescribed form, appealing
to the Board of Supervisors an action or decision of the Planning Commission
hereunder.
   NOTICE, WRITTEN. Written notice deposited in the United States mail, postage
prepaid, addressed to the last known address of the designated addressee.
   OWNER. Any person entitled to the use or possession of real property.
   PERSON. Any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation or
organization of any kind, including public agencies.
   PLAN LINE. A line defined by map from the established centerline, or
existing street right-of-way line or regular established property line, and
adopted pursuant to the procedures and requirements of this chapter. No
structure shall be erected, constructed or maintained within the area of a lot
between the plan line and an abutting street right of way, except as set forth
herein.
   POLES, WIRES and ASSOCIATED STRUCTURES. Poles, towers, supports, wires,
conductors, guys, stubs, platforms, crossarms, braces, transformers,
insulators, cutouts, switches, communication circuits, appliances, attachments
and appurtenances located on or below the ground.
   SHALL and MAY. These terms mean mandatory and permissive, respectively.
   SINGULAR and PLURAL. The singular includes the plural; and the plural, the
singular.
   STREET. Any street, highway, avenue, boulevard, road, walk, alley, right-of-
way, lane, place, square or other public way which heretofore has been, or may
hereafter be dedicated or otherwise acquired by the county or other
governmental agency for public street and highway purposes or public
transportation facilities.
   STRUCTURE and BUILDING. These terms are synonymous and shall mean anything
constructed or erected or assembled and which is attached or affixed to realty
or which is intended to rest other than temporarily thereon, or which is
attached to something having a fixed location on or below the ground.
   TENSES. Present tense includes the past and future tenses, and where
applicable, vice versa.
   UTILITY. All persons supplying electric, communication or similar or
associated service by means of electrical materials or devices to the public.
   WORDS AND PHRASES. Words and phrases used in this chapter, and not
specifically defined, shall be construed according to the context and customary
usage.
(1966 Code, § 12B-3) (Ord. 292, § 3)
§ 19.25.004 PLAN LINE MAPS GENERALLY.
   (A)   Plan lines shall be designated on maps.
   (B)   Plan line maps shall show all property divisions and structures
adjacent to existing and proposed rights of way and shall show the existing and
proposed rights-of-way and shall show the existing and proposed right-of-way
widths as well as cross sections of existing or proposed streets.
   (C)   The maps shall be titled “Official Plan Lines of (name of street or
highway)” to be drawn with India ink upon tracing cloth; the left and right
sides of each page shall be 18 inches in length and the top and bottom of each
page shall be 26 inches in width; each page shall have two-inch left margin;
each page of each map shall be numbered consecutively.
   (D)   Each plan line map shall have affixed on the last page thereof or
attached following the last page thereof the following certificates:
I hereby certify that this map, consisting of (blank) pages, constitutes a proposed Official
Plan Line Map, which proposed Official Plan Line Map was recommended to the Board of
Supervisors of the County of San Benito for adoption by resolution No. (blank) of the Planning
Commission of the County of San Benito on (blank).
Dated:             (blank)                     
                                                                                              
Secretary of the Planning Commission of the County of San Benito
I hereby certify that this map, consisting of (blank) pages, constitutes subsection (blank) of
section (blank) of the Ordinance No. (blank), which subsection was adopted as Ordinance No.
(blank) by the Board of Supervisors of San Benito County on (blank).
Dated:                   (blank)                    
                                                                                              
Clerk of the Board of Supervisors San Benito County
 
(1966 Code, § 12B-4) (Ord. 292, § 4)
§ 19.25.005 INDEX MAP.
   (A)   The County Clerk is hereby directed to make and keep current an index
map which shall show the streets or portions of streets upon which plan lines
have been established.
   (B)   The County Clerk is hereby directed to record all duly certified plan
line maps adopted under the provisions of this chapter in the office of the
Recorder of the county.
(1966 Code, § 12B-5) (Ord. 292, § 5)
§ 19.25.006 INCORPORATION OF PLAN LINE MAPS.
   Plan line maps and all the notations thereon are hereby made a part of this
chapter at the time of their adoption by the Board of Supervisors and the maps
shall constitute divisions of this section.
(1966 Code, § 12B-6) (Ord. 292, § 6)
§ 19.25.007 INITIATION OF PROCEEDINGS.
   (A)   Proceedings for the adoption of a plan line map for existing street or
portion thereof or for any future street, may be initiated by the Board of
Supervisors, by the Planning Commission or by any person filing a petition
therefor with the Planning Commission.
   (B)   The description of any existing street or portion thereof or any
future street for which plan lines are sought shall be by map showing the
streets and lot line or lines and the proposed right-of-way lines, and the
distance thereof from the established centerline, or existing line or regularly
established property line or structures.
   (C)   The Planning Commission shall thereupon process the matter.
(1966 Code, § 12B-7) (Ord. 292, § 7)
§ 19.25.008 REFERRAL TO ROAD DEPARTMENT.
   Before any action shall be taken by the Planning Commission concerning any
proposed plan line map the map shall be referred to the Road Department of the
county for a report and recommendation.
(1966 Code, § 12B-8) (Ord. 292, § 8)
§ 19.25.009 HEARING; NOTICE; REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION.
   (A)   The Planning Commission shall hold at least one public hearing before
approving any plan line map or any part or element thereof, or any amendment to
any plan line map or any part or element thereof. Notice of the time and place
of hearing shall be given at least ten calendar days before the hearing in the
following manner.
      (1)   Notice shall be published at least once in a newspaper of general
circulation published and circulated in the county or if there is none, it
shall be posted in at least three public places in the county.
      (2)   The notice shall be mailed to the owner of each lot contiguous to
any existing street or portion thereof or any future street for which plan
lines are sought, by depositing the same in the United States mail in a sealed
envelope with postage thereon prepaid, addressed to the owner as such owner’s
name appears and at such address as the same appears on the last equalized
assessment roll.
   (B)   The time set for the hearing shall not be less than 15 or more than 60
days from the date of the filing of the petition.
   (C)   At the hearing, the Planning Commission shall review the report and
recommendations of the Road Department of the county.
   (D)   Within 40 days after the conclusion of the hearing, the Planning
Commission shall take action thereon. Failure to take action within the time
limit will constitute approval of the proposed plan line map. Notice of the
Planning Commission’s action or failure to act shall be sent to the petitioner,
if the proceedings were initiated by petition. If the Planning Commission takes
action, it shall file a written report of its findings and recommendations with
respect to the proposed plan line map with the County Clerk, and if the
proposed plan line map is adopted, shall file a certified copy of the same with
the County Clerk.
(1966 Code, § 12B-9) (Ord. 292, § 9)
§ 19.25.010 AUTHORITY TO DESIGNATE PLAN LINES.
   Whenever the public peace, safety, comfort, convenience, interest or welfare
may require, the Board of Supervisors shall determine the minimum distance back
from the street line for the erection of structures along any portion of any
existing street or portion thereof or any future street in the county and to
establish a line to be known and designated as the plan line, between which
line and the street line no structure shall be erected or constructed.
(1966 Code, § 12B-10) (Ord. 292, § 10)
§ 19.25.011 RESOLUTION OF INTENTION; HEARING; NOTICE.
   (A)   On receipt of the findings and recommendations of the Planning
Commission, the Board of Supervisors shall adopt the resolution of intention to
adopt a plan line map; provided, however, that if the Planning Commission has
recommended against the adoption of the proposed plan line map the Board of
Supervisors shall not be required to take any further action thereon unless an
interested party shall request the adoption of the resolution of intention by
filing a written request with the County Clerk within ten days after the
Planning Commission files its findings and recommendations.
   (B)   The Board of Supervisors shall hold at least one public hearing before
adopting any plan line map or any part or element thereof, or any amendment to
the plan line map or any part or element thereof.
   (C)   A resolution of intention shall contain a notice of the time and place
when and where all persons interested may appear before the Board of
Supervisors and be heard.
   (D)   Notice of the time and place of hearing shall be given at least ten
calendar days before the hearing in the following manner.
      (1)   The resolution shall be published at least once in a newspaper of
general circulation published and circulated in the county or if there is none,
it shall be posted in at least three public places in the county.
      (2)   The resolution shall be mailed to the owner of each lot contiguous
to any existing street or portion thereof or any future street for which plan
lines are sought, by depositing the same in the United States mail in a sealed
envelope with postage thereon prepaid, addressed to the owner as such owner’s
name appears and at such address as the same appears on the last equalized
assessment roll.
   (E)   The time set for the hearing shall not be less than 15 or more than 60
days from the date of the adoption of the resolution of intention.
   (F)   Any hearing may be continued from time to time.
(1966 Code, § 12B-11) (Ord. 292, § 11)
§ 19.25.012 SAME; EFFECT.
   From and after the adoption of a resolution of intention and prior to either
the abandonment of the proceedings or the effective date of an ordinance
adopting a plan line map, it shall be unlawful for any person to erect or
construct any structure, other than utility poles, wires and associated
structures, within the proposed plan lines of any existing street or portion
thereof or any future street, and the county Building Inspector shall refuse to
issue any permit for any structure proposed to be erected or constructed within
such proposed plan lines and any such permit so issued shall be void.
(1966 Code, § 12B-12) (Ord. 292, § 12)
§ 19.25.013 SAME; PROTEST.
   (A)   Any person having any interest in any lot upon which plan lines are
proposed to be established may file with the County Clerk a written protest or
objection against the establishment of the proposed plan lines designated in
the resolution of intention and may appear before the Board of Supervisors at
the hearing in person or by counsel and be heard in support of their protest or
objection.
   (B)   Any protest or objection must be in writing and filed with the County
Clerk not later than 24 hours prior to the time set for the public hearing. No
other protests or objections shall be heard or considered by the county Board
of Supervisors.
(1966 Code, § 12B-13) (Ord. 292, § 13)
§ 19.25.014 AUTHORITY OF THE BOARD OF SUPERVISORS.
   (A)   The Board of Supervisors shall hear and pass on all protests or
objections and its decision shall be final and conclusive.
   (B)   The Board of Supervisors shall deny or sustain any protests or
objections.
   (C)   (1)   The Board of Supervisors may approve, modify or disapprove the
recommendations of the Planning Commission or abandon the proceedings. Any
modification of the proposed plan line map by the Board of Supervisors shall
first be referred to the Planning Commission for report and recommendation, but
the Planning Commission shall not be required to hold a public hearing thereon.
      (2)   Failure of the Planning Commission to report within 40 days after
the reference, or such longer period as may be designated by the Board of
Supervisors, shall be deemed to be approval of the proposed modification.
   (D)   The Board of Supervisors shall adopt any proposed plan line map by
ordinance.
(1966 Code, § 12B-14) (Ord. 292, § 14)
§ 19.25.015 EFFECT OF ADOPTION OF PLAN LINE MAP.
   From and after the effective date of any ordinance adopting any plan line
map, it shall be unlawful for any person to erect or construct any structure,
other than utility poles, wires and associated structures, within the plan
lines of any existing street or portion thereof or any future street, and the
county’s Building Inspector shall refuse to issue any permit for any structure
proposed to be erected within the space and any permit so issued shall be void.
(1966 Code, § 12B-15) (Ord. 292, § 15)
§ 19.25.016 YARD REQUIREMENTS.
   Yard and other requirements of Title 25 of this code shall be separately
applied as requirements additional to plan line requirements; provided,
however, that the portion of any lot that lies between a plan line and the
present right-of-way line shall be considered as a part of the lot area when
determining the number of dwelling units that may be placed on a lot or the
percentage of the lot area that may be covered by structures.
(1966 Code, § 12B-16) (Ord. 292, § 16)
§ 19.25.017 SETBACK TERMS DEFINED.
   To avoid confusion as to the permissible location of structures or uses of
land where the provisions hereof must be added to the provisions of Title 25 of
this code or other ordinances, the term “setback” or “building setback” shall
include the total of all requirements of Title 25 of this code, this chapter
and other ordinances, where applicable.
(1966 Code, § 12B-17) (Ord. 292, § 17)
§ 19.25.018 NON-CONFORMING STRUCTURES.
   Existing structures non-conforming as to plan line requirements and building
setback areas shall be deemed to be legal non-conforming structures and shall
not be altered or enlarged in any manner and shall be subject to the
regulations, limitations, abatement and amortization provided in Title 25 of
this code.
(1966 Code, § 12B-18) (Ord. 292, § 18)
§ 19.25.019 COMPLIANCE WITH OTHER ORDINANCES.
   This chapter shall not permit the erection, construction, placing or
maintenance of any structure at any place where the same is prohibited by any
other law, ordinance or regulation.
(1966 Code, § 12B-19) (Ord. 292, § 19)
§ 19.25.020 ADMINISTRATIVE RELIEF.
   (A)   An applicant denied a building permit pursuant to the provisions of
this chapter may file a written request with the secretary of the Planning
Commission for a hearing on the denial before the Planning Commission. Within
40 days after filing of the request, the Planning Commission shall hold a
hearing at which the applicant and other interested persons may appear and be
heard. At least ten days prior to the date fixed for the hearing, the Planning
Commission shall cause notice of the time and place thereof to be mailed to the
applicant and to any other person requesting the notice.
   (B)   The Planning Commission shall direct the issuance of the requested
building permit if it finds either of the following facts to be true:
      (1)   That the denial of the building permit, because of the nature of
the lot or other unique circumstances, will cause substantial damage to the
applicant; or
      (2)   That, in balancing the interest of the public in preserving the
integrity of adopted plan line maps against the private interest of the owner
of the lot in using his or her property, it is determined that the issuance of
the building permit is required in the interests of justice and equity.
   (C)   The Planning Commission shall not direct the issuance of the requested
building permit if it finds either of the following facts to be true:
      (1)   That, the applicant will not be substantially damaged by relocating
the proposed structure on the lot elsewhere than in the building setback area
or the area defined in any adopted plan line map; or
      (2)   That, in balancing the interest of the public in preserving the
integrity of adopted plan line maps against the private interest of the owner
of the lot in using his or her property, the resulting loss and disadvantage to
the public would be unreasonable and disproportionate to the private benefits
the owner would acquire from so using the lot.
   (D)   The Planning Commission may attach reasonable conditions to its
decision.
   (E)   The applicant shall be given written notice of the action taken by the
Planning Commission within 15 days of the decision.
(1966 Code, § 12B-20) (Ord. 292, § 20)
§ 19.25.021 APPEALS.
   An applicant dissatisfied with the decision of the Planning Commission may
appeal the decision to the Board of Supervisors by filing a written notice of
appeal with the County Clerk within 15 days after the date of the mailing of
the notice of the decision of the Planning Commission. The Board of Supervisors
shall set the matter for hearing before it within 40 days. At least ten days
prior to the date fixed for the hearing, the County Clerk shall cause notice of
the time and place thereof to be mailed to the applicant and to any other
person requesting the same. The procedure before the Board of Supervisors shall
be the same as before the Planning Commission.
(1966 Code, § 12B-21) (Ord. 292, § 21)
§ 19.25.022 ACQUISITION PROCEEDINGS.
   An applicant dissatisfied with the decision of the Board of Supervisors may,
by written notice filed with the County Clerk within 15 days after the date of
the mailing of the notice of the decision of the Board of Supervisors, demand
that the Board of Supervisors acquire by eminent domain or other available
proceedings a portion of the lot belonging to the applicant located within
adopted plan lines. Upon the failure of the Board of Supervisors, within six
months thereafter, to commence the acquisition proceedings, or thereafter with
reasonable diligence to prosecute the same to completion, the applicant may re-
apply for the building permit and thereupon the building permit shall be
issued.
(1966 Code, § 12B-22) (Ord. 292, § 22)
§ 19.25.023 VIOLATION OF CHAPTER DEEMED NUISANCE.
   (A)   Any structure erected or constructed contrary to the provisions of
this chapter or any building permit shall be, and the same is hereby declared
to be, a public nuisance and the District Attorney, upon order of the Board of
Supervisors, shall immediately commence an action or proceeding for the
abatement and removal and enjoinment thereof in the manner provided by law and
shall take such other steps and shall apply to such court or courts as may have
jurisdiction to grant relief as will abate the nuisance.
   (B)   The remedies provided for herein shall be cumulative and not
exclusive.
(1966 Code, § 12B-23) (Ord. 292, § 23)
CHAPTER 19.27: ROADS AND HIGHWAYS
Section
Article I. In General
   
19.27.001   Setback lines for buildings and structures
   
19.27.002   Setback lines for fences, sidewalks, curbs, trees and the like
   
19.27.003   Variances and appeals
   
19.27.004   Permit required for encroachments within road right-of-way
   
19.27.005   Construction of curbs, gutters and driveways
   
19.27.006   Trees and shrubs overhanging right-of-way
   
19.27.007   Obstruction of highways and the like; interference with persons
using same
   
19.27.008   Placement and the like of rubbish, refuse and the like in drainage
ditches and the like which flow under roads
   
19.27.009   Walking, driving and the like upon roads under construction
prohibited
   
19.27.010   Height and location of utility poles
   
19.27.011   Establishment of maximum weight limit on designated bridge
   
19.27.012   Damage to roads or bridges or creation of hazardous conditions
thereon; prohibited
   
19.27.013   Damage to roads or bridges or creation of hazardous conditions
thereon; enforcement of prohibitions
Article II. Parades and Public Gatherings
   
19.27.025   Intent; findings
   
19.27.026   Definitions
   
19.27.027   Permit required
   
19.27.028   Application
   
19.27.029   Review and action
   
19.27.030   Revocation of permits
   
19.27.031   Appeals
   
19.27.032   Non-transferability
   
19.27.033   Cordoning of the route or site of an event
   
19.27.034   Violations
   
19.27.035   Boundary line streets
   
19.27.036   Criminal penalty
   
19.27.037   Public nuisance
   
19.27.038   Remedies cumulative
   
19.27.039   Permanent parades or public gatherings
Article III. Rewards
   
19.27.050   Information concerning interference with county signs
   
19.27.051   Information concerning theft of county signs
   
19.27.052   Payment
Cross-reference:
   County Highways and Parks Adoption Program, see
Chapter 19.09 of this code
   County Surveyor, see
Chapter 3.01, Article II, of this code
   Plan Lines, see
Chapter 19.25 of this code
   Traffic Regulations, see Title 17 of this code
ARTICLE I. IN GENERAL
§ 19.27.001 SETBACK LINES FOR BUILDINGS AND STRUCTURES.
   (A)   No building or structure may be erected within 35 feet of the side
line of any state highway; within 65 feet of the center line of any county
primary road; or within 50 feet of the center line of any county secondary
road.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, BUILDING is a structure having a roof
supported by columns or walls and which is intended for the shelter, housing or
enclosure of any person, animal or chattel; and STRUCTURE is anything
constructed or erected, the use of which requires location on the ground or
attachment to something having location on the ground, including roads.
(1966 Code, § 14-1) (Ord. 184, § 3)
§ 19.27.002 SETBACK LINES FOR FENCES, SIDEWALKS, CURBS, TREES AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   No encroachment projecting above the surface of the roadway will be
permitted within 20 feet of the center of any county road or street, regardless
of the width of the right-of-way.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, curbs, sidewalks, fences, driveway
entrances, trees and shrubs in addition to other encroachments are regarded as
surface encroachments.
(1966 Code, § 14-2) (Ord. 184, § 4)
§ 19.27.003 VARIANCES AND APPEALS.
   (A)   The Planning Commission of the county is empowered to receive,
investigate, hear and take action upon every application for a variance from
the strict application of any provision of §§
19.27.001 and
19.27.002 of this chapter. It shall approve only such variances as are in
harmony with the general purpose and intent of §§
19.27.001 and
19.27.002.
   (B)   Variance applications and fees shall be submitted in accordance with
the provisions of §
25.41.002 of this code.
   (C)   Appeals by any person aggrieved by any decision of the Planning
Commission shall be made in accordance with the provisions of §
25.47.002 of this code.
(1966 Code, § 14-2.1) (Ord. 329)
§ 19.27.004 PERMIT REQUIRED FOR ENCROACHMENTS WITHIN ROAD RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   Any encroachment within the right-of-way of any county road or road offered
for dedication to the county, either on the surface or roadway, or buried, will
not be permitted without first obtaining a permit from the county’s Road
Commissioner. The permit shall set forth the conditions under which it is
granted, and the authority of the Road Commissioner in granting or denying a
permit is hereby limited to requirements affecting the public health and
safety, and the protection of the roadway surface and related facilities.
(1966 Code, § 14-3) (Ord. 184, § 5; Ord. 700, § 1)
§ 19.27.005 CONSTRUCTION OF CURBS, GUTTERS AND DRIVEWAYS.
   (A)   Curbs, gutters and driveway entrances may be constructed along county
roads and streets; provided, that the construction is done to lines and grades
approved by the county Road Commissioner. Construction shall be done to the
following standards, and the Road Commissioner shall have the right to allow
for minor deviations in order to fit conditions which may exist upon the ground
and to expedite drainage:
      (1)   All concrete used for construction under this section shall contain
not less than 470 pounds of cement per cubic yard of concrete. Aggregate used
in concrete shall be reasonably clean and free from dirt, vegetable and other
deleterious matter. Finished concrete shall have a compressive strength of not
less than 2,000 pounds per square inch when tested, in accordance with the
standard testing procedures for concrete, 28 days after mixing.
      (2)   Curbs and gutters shall be integral, with the curb surface not less
than six inches in width and projecting five and five-eighths inches above the
gutter invert. Gutters shall be not less than five and five-eighths inches
thick and not less than 16 inches in width. Gutters shall be pitched toward the
curb at the rate of one-half inch per foot.
      (3)   Sidewalks shall be not less than three and five-eighths inches
thick and not less than five feet wide, and shall be pitched toward the street
at the rate of one-quarter inch per foot.
      (4)   Concrete surfaces exposed to pedestrian or vehicular traffic shall
be brush finished in order to present a reasonably non-skid surface. Curb faces
shall be troweled smooth. All exposed edges shall be edged with a proper tool
having a one-half inch radius.
      (5)   Concrete forms shall not be removed for at least four hours after
pouring, and all exposed surfaces shall be cured as directed by the Road
Commissioner. Expansion joints shall be installed at locations and in a manner
to be determined by the Road Commissioner.
      (6)   Any concrete placed that is not in conformance with the
requirements of this section shall be in violation of this chapter and shall be
removed within five days after receipt of notice in writing from the Road
Commissioner.
   (B)   The Board of Supervisors reserve the right to permit major deviations
in curb and gutter design for special conditions where conformance with these
standards is not practical.
(1966 Code, § 14-4) (Ord. 184, § 6)
§ 19.27.006 TREES AND SHRUBS OVERHANGING RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   No tree or shrub of any kind may be planted on or adjacent to any county
road in such a manner that when reaching full development the outermost limbs
of such tree or shrub shall overhang the right-of-way in excess of three feet
except trees and shrubs planted by, or with permission of, the Road Department
for landscaping or erosion control.
(1966 Code, § 14-5) (Ord. 184, § 7)
§ 19.27.007 OBSTRUCTION OF HIGHWAYS AND THE LIKE; INTERFERENCE WITH PERSONS
USING SAME.
   No person shall loiter, stand or sit in or upon any public highway, alley,
sidewalk or crosswalk so as to in any manner hinder or obstruct the free
passage therein or thereon of persons or vehicles passing or attempting to pass
along the same, or so as to in any manner annoy or molest persons passing along
the same.
(1966 Code, § 14-6) (Ord. 155, § 2)
§ 19.27.008 PLACEMENT AND THE LIKE OF RUBBISH, REFUSE AND THE LIKE IN DRAINAGE
DITCHES AND THE LIKE WHICH FLOW UNDER ROADS.
   No person shall place, deposit or dump, or cause to be placed, deposited or
dumped, any garbage, cans, bottles, papers, refuse, carcass of any dead animal,
trash, rubbish, prunings, clippings, limbs, trees, stumps, boards, wire or any
other articles which may cause culverts or bridges under county roads to become
clogged when carried by flood water in any watercourse or ditch, natural or
man-made, which drains under any county road.
(1966 Code, § 14-7) (Ord. 184, § 2)
§ 19.27.009 WALKING, DRIVING AND THE LIKE UPON ROADS UNDER CONSTRUCTION
PROHIBITED.
   No person shall walk, go, travel or drive any vehicle, automobile,
motorcycle or bicycle upon, across or over any highway in the county when the
same is being repaired or constructed, or is in course of being repaired or
constructed or before the repair or construction is finally completed.
(1966 Code, § 14-8) (Ord. 165, § 1)
§ 19.27.010 HEIGHT AND LOCATION OF UTILITY POLES.
   (A)   No poles for telegraph, electricity or telephone wires shall be
placed, erected or maintained on any public street, road or highway in the
county unless the same shall be at least 15 feet in height above the surface of
the ground, and no telegraph or telephone wires shall be strung on any poles at
a distance of less than 15 feet from the surface of the ground. All such
telegraph and telephone poles shall be placed, erected and maintained on the
public streets, roads and highways, when practicable, at a distance of five
feet six inches from the boundary thereof, and shall be placed, erected and
maintained so as not to incommode the public use of, or interfere with, the
ordinary travel thereon. At all crossings of the streets, roads and highways,
all wires on the poles shall be at a distance of not less than 25 feet from the
surface of the ground.
   (B)   Upon any failure to comply with terms of this section or upon any
violation thereof, the Road Commissioner shall after five days notice to the
agent at the City of Hollister of the person owning the poles or wires or
operating the telegraph, electric or telephone system, so failing or violating
to remove any poles or wires placed in a manner contrary to this section.
(1966 Code, § 14-9) (Ord. 75, §§ 1, 2)
§ 19.27.011 ESTABLISHMENT OF MAXIMUM WEIGHT LIMIT ON DESIGNATED BRIDGE.
   Pursuant to the authority granted by the Cal. Vehicle Code § 35706, the
maximum gross weight of vehicle and load permitted on the bridge crossing
Pacheco Creek on Dunne Lane-San Felipe Road at the Santa Clara County-San
Benito County boundary line is ten tons per vehicle and 16 tons per truck and
full trailer or semi-trailer combination.
(1966 Code, § 14-9.1) (Ord. 293)
§ 19.27.012 DAMAGE TO ROADS OR BRIDGES OR CREATION OF HAZARDOUS CONDITIONS
THEREON; PROHIBITED.
   Every person who negligently, wilfully or maliciously digs up, removes,
displaces, breaks down or otherwise injures or destroys any county or other
public highway or bridge, or any private way, laid out by authority of law, or
bridge upon such highway or private way, or who negligently, wilfully or
maliciously sprinkles, drains, diverts or in any manner permits mud, debris or
water from any sprinkler, ditch, canal, flume, reservoir, vehicle or from any
other source to flow upon or saturate by seepage any county road, which act
tends to damage the road or tends to be a hazard to traffic thereon, shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor. This section shall not apply to the natural flow of
surface or flood waters that are not diverted, accelerated or concentrated by
the person. The person shall be deemed guilty of a separate offense for each
and every day, or during any portion of which, any violation of this section is
committed, continued or permitted, and shall be punished in accordance with
this section.
(1966 Code, § 14-9.2) (Ord. 533, § 1(part))
§ 19.27.013 DAMAGE TO ROADS OR BRIDGES OR CREATION OF HAZARDOUS CONDITIONS
THEREON; ENFORCEMENT OF PROHIBITIONS.
   Notwithstanding §
19.27.012, the county may enforce the prohibitions of §
19.27.012 by any civil remedy available under the law including, but not
limited to, injunctive relief. Any judgment in favor of the county may include,
at the discretion of the trial court, an award of costs, reasonable attorneys’
fees, and other appropriate damages. These damages may include the reasonable
value of the expenses incurred by the county staff to enforce §
19.27.012, including all costs through judgment. Should the defendant prevail
over the county in any enforcement action, this section does not authorize the
award of costs or attorney’s fees, both of which shall not be awarded, unless
otherwise authorized by law.
(1966 Code, § 14-9.3) (Ord. 533, § 1(part))
ARTICLE II. PARADES AND PUBLIC GATHERINGS
§ 19.27.025 INTENT; FINDINGS.
   (A)   The Board of Supervisors expressly finds that the gathering of large
numbers of people for the purposes set forth below can create problems
seriously affecting the public safety, health and welfare. The Board also finds
that due to the size and nature of the unincorporated territory of the County
of San Benito, there is a need for comprehensive regulations governing parade
and public gathering activities on both county and private property in order to
avoid potential problems or mitigate any adverse potential impacts of parades
or public gatherings.
   (B)   It is the intent of the Board of Supervisors to adopt this chapter to
mitigate potential problems without infringing upon the rights of speech and
assembly as guaranteed under the state and federal constitutions. This chapter
shall be interpreted in light of the constitutional provisions and applied
consistent therewith. In no event shall the content of any proposed speech be
considered as a basis for approval or denial of an application.
   (C)   However, notwithstanding the above, the Board of Supervisors
determines that a large parade or public gathering creates a substantial threat
to the public health, safety and welfare of San Benito County residents because
of the small size of the staff of the County of San Benito, the limited
revenues of the county, and the limited means to increase revenues. The
regulations herein are deemed a compelling need to address the circumstances
stated herein.
(1966 Code, § 14-10) (Ord. 688, § 1(part); Ord. 703, § 1(part))
Editor’s note:
   Prior ordinance history: Ords. 596, 669, 670 and 683.
§ 19.27.026 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COUNTY’S ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER. The San Benito County Administrative
Officer or the designee thereof.
   COUNTY COUNSEL. The San Benito County Counsel or the County Counsel’s
designee.
   COUNTY HEALTH OFFICER. The San Benito County Health Officer or the County
Health Officer’s designee.
   COUNTY RESOURCES. Either financial resources, equipment or persons whether
the persons be employees or independent contractors.
   COUNTY ROAD.
      (1)   Any public road in the unincorporated area of the county which is
designated as part of the county road system;
      (2)   Any public road which the county is otherwise legally obligated to
maintain;
      (3)   Any public rights-of-way, easements, sidewalks or crosswalks
appurtenant to the public roads specified herein; or
      (4)   Any public alleys or thoroughfares which the county is legally
obligated to maintain.
   DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC WORKS. The Director of Public Works of the County of San
Benito or the Director’s designee.
   EVENT. A parade and/or public gathering.
   LEVEL 1 PARADE OR PUBLIC GATHERING. Those parades or public gatherings where
not more than 1,500 persons are reasonably expected to be in attendance.
   LEVEL 2 PARADE OR PUBLIC GATHERING. Those parades or public gatherings
consisting of more than 1,500 persons but not exceeding 5,000 persons
reasonably expected to be in attendance.
   LEVEL 3 PARADE OR PUBLIC GATHERING. Those parades or public gatherings
consisting of more than 5,000 persons but not exceeding 15,000 persons
reasonably expected to be in attendance.
   LEVEL 4 PARADE OR PUBLIC GATHERING. Those parades or public gatherings where
over 15,000 persons are reasonably expected to be in attendance.
   OPEN TO THE PUBLIC. An event which is not a private event.
   PARADE. Any parade, march, race or procession, other than a funeral
procession, organized for public or private participation by 50 or more
persons, which parade is held on a county road.
   PARADE ADMINISTRATOR.
      (1)   The Sheriff of the County of San Benito. The Parade Administrator
shall have the primary responsibility for the administration of the provisions
of this chapter. In carrying out such responsibilities, the duties of the
Parade Administrator shall include, but not be limited to, acting on all
applications for a permit required by this chapter.
      (2)   In addition, the PARADE ADMINISTRATOR shall be authorized to revoke
a permit issued pursuant to this chapter in the manner provided for herein.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, association, corporation, limited liability
company, organization, partnership or any city, county, district, or the state
or federal government or any department or agency thereof. For the purposes
hereof, the singular shall include the plural, and the masculine shall include
the feminine and neuter, and vice versa.
   PRIVATE EVENTS.
      (1)   Those events such as weddings, birthday parties and the like where
there is a host who pays for substantially all of the guests’ expenses for a
personal social event.
      (2)   In no case shall any event be classified for purposes herein as a
PRIVATE EVENT if attendance is reasonably anticipated or planned to exceed
5,000 persons.
   PUBLIC GATHERING. A public gathering on county property as well as public
gathering on private property.
   PUBLIC GATHERING ON COUNTY PROPERTY.
      (1)   Every temporary gathering of a group of persons reasonably expected
to exceed 50 in number;
      (2)   In the unincorporated area of the county;
      (3)   Which gathering of persons is held on property owned by the county;
      (4)   Outdoors or within permanent or temporary structures; and
      (5)   Which is open to the public with or without an admittance fee or a
donation. PUBLIC GATHERING ON COUNTY PROPERTY shall include, but not be limited
to, circuses, carnivals, festivals and races. PUBLIC GATHERING ON COUNTY
PROPERTY shall not include any gathering of persons organized or otherwise
coordinated by the County of San Benito, or by its agents or franchisees
pursuant to express county approval.
   PUBLIC GATHERING ON PRIVATE PROPERTY.
      (1)   Every temporary gathering of a group of persons reasonably expected
to exceed 50 persons;
      (2)   In the unincorporated area of the county;
      (3)   Which public gathering is held on privately-owned property;
      (4)   Outdoors or within a permanent or temporary structure;
      (5)   Open to the public with or without an admittance fee or donation;
and
      (6)   Which gathering of persons is not previously authorized by county
permit. A PUBLIC GATHERING ON PRIVATE PROPERTY shall include, but not be
limited to, circuses, carnivals, festivals and races.
   SHERIFF. The elected Sheriff of San Benito County or the Sheriff’s designee.
   TEMPORARY GATHERING OF PERSONS. A gathering of persons that is not intended
to, or does not in fact, occur on a regular (e.g., daily, weekly, monthly)
basis. An annual gathering of persons lasting for a specified or indeterminate
duration of two weeks or less shall be considered temporary gathering. An
annual gathering of persons lasting for a specified or indeterminate duration
of more than two weeks shall be considered a permanent use.
(1966 Code, § 14-11) (Ord. 688, § 1(part); Ord. 703, § 1(part))
§ 19.27.027 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No person shall hold, manage, conduct or carry on or cause or permit to be
held, managed, conducted or carried on, any parade, any public gathering on
county property, or any public gathering on private property, without first
having been issued a parade/public gathering permit by the Parade
Administrator. A permit is not deemed issued until the Parade Administrator has
received the applicant’s written acceptance pursuant to this chapter.
Notwithstanding the requirement for a permit expressed herein, Level 1 or Level
2 public gatherings are exempt from the permit requirement. Notwithstanding the
issuance of a parade and public gathering permit, or an exemption from a parade
or public gathering permit, no person shall hold, manage, conduct or carry on
or cause or permit to be held, managed, conducted or carried on any activities
which require a use permit or a permit for a temporary use, pursuant to Title
25 of the San Benito County Code.
(1966 Code, § 14-12) (Ord. 688, § 1(part); Ord. 703, § 1(part))
§ 19.27.028 APPLICATION.
   (A)   Fee. To obtain a parade/public gathering permit, a person shall file
an application for the permit with the Parade Administrator. Any application
shall be accompanied by a fee in an amount which shall be fixed by the Board of
Supervisors, from time to time. Effective immediately, the application fee for
the permits shall be as follows:
 
Level 1 parades: those parades where not $50 [Level 1 public gatherings are
more than 1,500 persons are reasonably   exempt from permit requirement]
expected to be in attendance
Level 2 parades: those parades
consisting of more than 1,500 persons    $150 [Level 2 public gatherings are
but not exceeding 5,000 persons          exempt from permit requirements]
reasonably expected to be in attendance
Level 3 parades or public gatherings:
those parades or public gatherings
consisting of more than 5,000 persons,   $1,000
but not exceeding 15,000 persons
reasonably expected to be in attendance
Level 4 parades or public gatherings:
those parades or public gatherings where $3,000
over 15,000 persons are reasonably
expected to be in attendance
 
   (B)   Failure to pay fee. The county shall not accept an application for
parade/public gathering permit if an applicant does not tender the required
parade/public gathering permit fee.
   (C)   Form and content of application. An application for a parade/public
gathering permit shall be made on forms furnished by the Parade Administrator
and shall be fully and completely prepared, containing all of the following
information:
      (1)   The name, mailing address and daytime and evening telephone numbers
of the person filing the application;
      (2)   If the event is to be conducted by an organization, the name,
mailing address and daytime telephone number of the organization, the name,
mailing address and daytime telephone number of the president, leader or other
head of the organization, and written documentation of the authority under
which the applicant is applying for the permit on behalf of the organization;
      (3)   The name, mailing address and daytime telephone number of the
person who will be present and in charge of the event on the day of the event;
      (4)   The name, mailing address and daytime telephone number of any
monitors to be employed during the event;
      (5)   The name, mailing address and daytime telephone number and evening
telephone number of an alternate person to contact if an emergency arises and
the applicant is unavailable;
      (6)   A written statement of the kind, character and type of parade or
public gathering which applicant proposes to conduct;
      (7)   The proposed date and estimated starting and ending time of the
event;
      (8)   The proposed location of the event; including its boundaries;
      (9)   The estimated number of participants in the event;
      (10)   The type and estimated number of vehicles, animals and structures
that will be used in the event;
      (11)   A description of any sound amplification equipment to be employed
at the event;
      (12)   The number, size and material of construction of any signs or
banners to be used in the event;
      (13)   The parking requirements for the event;
      (14)   The location of any water, first aid or comfort stations to be
provided at the event;
      (15)   The type and number of any vendors who will sell food or beverages
at the event, including the name, address and telephone numbers of all vendors;
and
      (16)   If the event is a parade:
         (a)   The time when units of the parade will begin to assemble;
         (b)   The proposed assembly point for the parade;
         (c)   The proposed parade route;
         (d)   The interval space to be maintained between units of the parade;
and
         (e)    The number, type and size of the floats or other vehicles.
   (D)   Accompanying documents. An application for a parade/public gathering
permit shall include the following:
      (1)   The information specified in division (C) above of this section;
      (2)   Written confirmation to the Parade Administrator that the
California Highway Patrol, the California Department of Forestry, the San
Benito County Public Works Department, the San Benito County Fire Department
and the San Benito County Health Officer have reviewed the proposed event and
have determined that it shall be held in conformance with all applicable rules
and regulations of the respective agencies;
      (3)   In the case of a public gathering on private property, proof of
ownership of the place of the proposed public gathering or a statement signed
by all the owners of the property where the public gathering is proposed.
Additionally, all owners of the property where the proposed public gathering is
to occur must sign the application and must agree to be bound by all terms of
any permit that is issued;
      (4)   A written agreement by the applicant and, if pertinent, all owners
of a proposed public gathering site, to indemnify the county, its officers,
agents and employees, from and against any and all claims and losses whatsoever
arising out of, or in any way related to, the activity for which the permit is
sought including, but not limited to, claims for property damage, personal
injury, death and any legal expenses (such as attorneys’ fees, court costs,
investigation costs and experts’ fees) incurred by the indemnitee in connection
with the claims. The agreement shall be in a form approved by the County
Counsel;
      (5)   Verification that the applicant has notified all vendors of food
and beverages that a county health permit is required;
      (6)   An Assessor’s map with the names and addresses of all owners of
property within 500 feet of the subject property; and
      (7)   Any other documents deemed necessary by the Parade Administrator to
insure an adequate review of the application.
   (E)   Time of application. A completed application for a Level 1 or Level 2
parade permit shall be submitted to the Parade Administrator at least two
working days before the date of the proposed Level 1 or Level 2 parade or
public gathering is to commence. A completed application for a Level 3 or Level
4 parade or public gathering permit shall be submitted to the Parade
Administrator at least five calendar days before the date of the proposed Level
3 or Level 4 parade or public gathering is to commence.
(1966 Code, § 14-13) (Ord. 688, § 1(part); Ord. 703, § 1(part))
§ 19.27.029 REVIEW AND ACTION.
   (A)   Review of application.
      (1)   The Parade Administrator shall review the parade/public gathering
permit application, including all accompanying documentation, for accuracy and
completeness. The Parade Administrator shall review the application in light of
the requirements of this chapter.
      (2)   The Parade Administrator shall endeavor to give notice of the
nature, date and time of any event authorized by a permit as soon as possible
prior to the date of the event to all owners of property adjoining the county
road, sidewalk, other public right-of-way or specific property where the event
is to occur, either by delivering copies of the notice to the property owners,
by publishing the notice in a newspaper of general circulation, or by posting
the notice along the route or at the site of the event. The provisions of this
section shall be directory only, and the failure of the Parade Administrator to
give the notice shall not invalidate a permit, if issued.
   (B)   Decision on application; issuance or denial of permit.
      (1)   Upon completion of the review process, the Parade Administrator
shall approve the application and issue a permit if the Parade Administrator
determines that the issuance of the permit will not create a real, substantial
and unmitigatable imminent threat to the public health, safety or order. If the
Parade Administrator determines that certain specific services in addition to
those proposed by the applicant are needed in order to prevent a real,
substantial and unmitigatable imminent threat to the public health, safety or
order, the Parade Administrator shall approve the application and issue the
permit with sufficient conditions necessary to reasonably insure the protection
of the public health, safety or order, consistent with the requirements of this
article. The Parade Administrator shall deny the application if the Parade
Administrator determines that the issuance of the permit, with or without
conditions, will create a real, substantial and unmitigatable imminent threat
to the public health, safety or order. A real, substantial and unmitigatable
imminent threat to the public health, safety or order shall exist when the
Parade Administrator determines any one or more of the following:
         (a)   That the proposed route, location, time or duration of the event
will substantially interrupt the safe and orderly flow of traffic along or
through the route or location and the county has inadequate resources to
reasonably mitigate the impacts;
         (b)   That the proposed route, location, time or duration of the event
will unreasonably interfere with the provision of Sheriff or fire protection in
the event area, the area surrounding the event, or the remainder of the county
and the county has inadequate resources to reasonably mitigate the
interference;
         (c)   That the proposed manner of conducting the event is reasonably
likely to cause injury to persons or damage to property and the resources
reasonably available to the county are not sufficient to substantially reduce
the risk of harm to persons or property;
         (d)   The applicant has failed to provide supplemental application
information requested by the Parade Administrator or has otherwise failed to
complete the application;
         (e)   The information contained in the application, including
supplemental application information requested by the Parade Administrator is
found to be false in any material respect;
         (f)   An application for another event to be held on the same date as
that requested by the applicant has been previously filed or approved, and such
other event is so close in time or location to the event proposed by the
applicant as to cause undue traffic congestion or to place the county in a
position of being unable to provide Sheriff protection, fire protection or
other essential services for both events;
         (g)   Given the size and nature of the event, the reasonably available
county resources such as County Sheriff deputies or other essential county
personnel is not sufficient to ensure the safety of participants or the
attending public;
         (h)   The event will occur at a time when a school is in session and
along a route or at a location adjacent to the school or a class thereof, and
the noise created by the activities of the event will substantially disrupt the
educational activity of the school or class; and
         (i)   The location of the event will substantially interfere with
construction or maintenance work previously scheduled to take place on or along
the county road to be used for the event.
      (2)   However, nothing herein authorizes the denial of a permit because
of the need to protect participants from the conduct of others, if reasonable
permit conditions can be imposed to mitigate the concern. Furthermore, nothing
herein authorizes the denial of a permit based upon the content of any proposed
exercise of an applicant’s first amendment rights.
   (C)   Time of decision on application.
      (1)   In the case of a Level 1 or Level 2 parade application, the Parade
Administrator shall make a decision on the application within one working day
after the time that a completed application is filed with the Parade
Administrator. In the case of a Level 3 or Level 4 parade or public gathering
application, the Parade Administrator shall make a decision on the application
within two working days after the time that a completed application is made.
      (2)   After the decision, the Parade Administrator shall immediately
attempt to notify the applicant orally and in writing of the Parade
Administrator’s decision. A written document indicating approval, which shall
serve as the permit, may be by telegram, facsimile or any written document sent
by the Parade Administrator. Both the oral and the written notifications shall
describe, with particularity, the facts and reasons for any denial or for any
approval subject to conditions.
      (3)   Any permit for a Level 3 or 4 event shall be invalid unless within
24 hours after the approval is sent to the applicant, the applicant fails to
accept, in writing, the approval and relevant conditions thereof. The writing
may be by telegram, facsimile or any written document sent or signed by the
applicant. Failure to accept as set forth herein or failure to file a timely
appeal shall automatically be deemed a withdrawal of the application.
   (D)   Conditions of approval; requirements. The Parade Administrator shall
provide that issuance of a parade/public gathering permit shall be contingent
upon acceptance and observance of specified conditions deemed reasonable and
necessary to protect the public health, safety or order consistent with the
requirements specified in this chapter. All permits shall specify the kind,
character and type of event which is approved and shall specify the maximum
number of persons who may attend or participate in such permitted event.
Furthermore, all persons obtaining a parade/public gathering permit shall
comply with the requirements specified in this division. However, upon request
of the applicant, the Parade Administrator, with the approval of the
appropriate agency official, may reduce the mandatory requirements in the case
of a Level 1 or Level 2 event if the requirements are not necessary to protect
the public health safety or order.
      (1)   Police protection/traffic control.
         (a)   Every person granted a permit under this article shall insure
the preservation of order and the protection of property in and around the
location of the parade or public gathering. The obligation may require a permit
condition that a permittee employ private security. Any proposal for the
employment of security services shall be reviewed and must be approved by the
Sheriff before a permit shall become issued.
         (b)   All security service personnel shall be required to be licensed
under the Business and Professions Code and to be in attendance, wearing
uniforms, at all times when the parade or public gathering is in operation.
Where the Sheriff authorizes the employment of off-duty peace officers to meet
the requirements of this article, the peace officers shall be under the
direction and control of the Sheriff. The Sheriff shall be satisfied that the
requisite number of security personnel will be provided at all times during the
parade or public gathering, before a permit is issued. An applicant may be
required to submit a written agreement between the applicant and a licensed
security firm. As a condition of any permit hereunder, an applicant shall
consent to and authorize the Sheriff, his or her deputies and employees to
enter upon the permitted premises in order to insure compliance with permit
conditions and to insure protection of the public.
         (c)   Furthermore, in the event that the Sheriff determines that a
parade or public gathering will require additional Sheriff operations and
services for public protection/traffic control, an applicant shall pay the
costs of all additional Sheriff services required. As a condition of obtaining
a permit, an applicant shall be required to enter into an agreement with the
County of San Benito agreeing to pay the costs of the additional Sheriff’s
services as determined necessary by the Sheriff. The agreement shall be subject
to the approval of the County Counsel.
      (2)   Water facilities. Every permittee shall provide an ample supply of
water for drinking and sanitation purposes on the premises of a public
gathering. A permittee shall provide a minimum supply of water an amount
equivalent to one drinking fountain for the first 75 attendees and thereafter
one additional drinking fountain for each additional 150 attendees. The Parade
Administrator shall, with the consent of the Environmental Health Officer,
reduce or otherwise adjust the quantitative requirements if other alternative
sources of water are proposed and approved. All drinking water fountains shall
meet state drinking water standards. There shall be one lavatory for each four
toilets.
      (3)   Food concessions. In the case of public gatherings proposed to be
held in areas located a substantial distance from markets, restaurants or like
eating establishments for more than one day, a permittee shall provide the food
concessions shall be available at the premises for each day of operation to
adequately feed the number of persons expected to be in attendance.
Concessionaires shall be licensed pursuant to local regulations and state laws.
      (4)   Sanitation facilities.
         (a)   Every permittee shall provide on the premises of any public
gathering, at least one closed toilet facility for each 50 persons expected to
be in attendance. Toilet facilities for persons with physical disabilities
shall also be required.
         (b)   Where flush-type toilets cannot be made available, a permittee
may use portable chemical toilets. Chemical toilets shall be emptied at a
permittee’s expense as necessary and pursuant to any procedures established by
the San Benito County Health Officer.
         (c)   Every permittee shall be required to furnish the equivalent of
at least one solid waste receptacle with a minimum 32-gallon capacity for every
25 persons expected to be in attendance. Receptacles for the recycling of
discarded materials shall also be provided. An applicant shall enter into an
agreement with an approved solid waste collection company for the collection of
solid waste. Solid waste shall be emptied at a permittee’s expense as necessary
to maintain sanitary conditions.
      (5)   Emergency medical services. Where an event is a Level 3 or 4 event,
and is planned for a route or a site which is located a substantial distance
from existing medical treatment facilities, the applicant shall provide one
ambulance for every 50,000 persons authorized to attend the event. The
ambulance shall be a provider who is authorized to transport persons in San
Benito County. The ambulance shall be staffed with persons who are licensed or
certified, as required under Cal. Health and Safety Code §§ 1797 et seq.,
consistent with local emergency medical service requirements.
      (6)   Parking areas. Every permittee shall provide adequate parking
spaces for the number of persons the permit authorizes to attend the public
gathering or parade.
      (7)   Access and parking control.
         (a)   Every permittee shall provide adequate ingress and egress to the
event site and to the parking areas, along with adequate signage. Necessary
roads, driveways, entrance ways and traffic signs shall exist to insure orderly
flow of traffic into, or away from the premises by a highway which is a part of
the county road system or which is a highway maintained by the State of
California.
         (b)   Additionally, in the case of a Level 3 or 4 event, a permittee
shall be required to employ traffic guards to insure orderly traffic movement
and relieve traffic congestion in the vicinity of the parade or public
gathering area.
      (8)   Hours of operation. No permit shall be issued for any event between
the hours of 2:00 a.m. and 6:00 a.m. of any day. The Parade Administrator shall
further restrict the hours of desired operation of a parade or public gathering
if necessary to protect the public health, safety or order in compliance with
this chapter. No permit shall authorize camping at the site of the event. Any
person desiring to establish camping facilities in connection with an event
shall first obtain approval for temporary use under Title 25 of the San Benito
County Code.
      (9)   Illumination. Every permittee planning to conduct a parade or
public gathering after dark, or planning to allow persons who attend the parade
or public gathering to remain on the premises after dark, shall provide
electrical illumination to insure that those areas which are occupied,
including areas used for parking, are appropriately lighted at all times. For
purposes of this section, APPROPRIATE LIGHTING is that which illuminates only
the intended area and does not create off-site glare or create a safety hazard.
      (10)   Security.
         (a)   If a permittee is required to indemnify the county for any costs
incurred by the county as a result of the proposed event, the permittee shall
provide security for the county in connection with the event in an amount
determined by the Parade Administrator. The amount of the security shall cover
any expenses anticipated to be incurred by the county as a result of the event.
         (b)   The security shall be either an undertaking such as an indemnity
bond, a performance bond or the like or a cash deposit with the county.
         (c)   An applicant may be required to submit a surety bond in an
amount determined by the Parade Administrator as a condition of approval of any
permit. The bond shall indemnify the County of San Benito, and its agents,
officers and employees against any and all loss, injury and the damage of any
nature whatsoever arising out of, or in any way connected with, the parade or
public gathering and shall indemnify against loss, injury or damage to both
persons and/or property and the owners of property adjoining the parade or
public gathering site for any costs necessitated for cleaning up and/or
removing, advertising signs, debris, trash or other solid waste from, in and
around the premises.
         (d)   Any bond required by this chapter shall be written by a
corporate bonding company authorized to do business in the State of California
approved by the state’s Department of Insurance. Bonds required by this article
must be approved by the county’s Risk Manager.
      (11)   Fire protection. A permittee shall furnish such fire protection,
including personnel and equipment, at its own expense, as shall be required by
the Parade Administrator after consultation with the state’s Division of
Forestry and/or the San Benito County Fire Department. In the event that a
parade or public gathering will require additional county fire protection
services, a permittee shall pay the costs of all additional services
necessitated by the parade or public gathering. As a condition of obtaining a
permit, an applicant shall enter into an agreement with the County of San
Benito agreeing to pay the costs of the additional fire protection services as
determined necessary by the Parade Administrator and/or the San Benito County
Fire Department.
      (12)   Enclosures. A permittee shall install, at his or her own expense,
such fences or other structures to prevent persons attending the Level 3 or
Level 4 parade or public gathering from trespassing upon lands adjacent to the
permitted premises.
      (13)   Insurance. A certificate of insurance demonstrating that the
applicant has in effect a comprehensive general liability insurance policy with
a combined single limit of not less than $1,000,000 for a Level 1 or Level 2
event or a combined single limit of not less than $2,000,000 for a Level 3
event or a combined single limit of not less than $10,000,000 for a Level 4
event shall be required. Applicant shall also provide an endorsement naming the
county, its officers, agents and employees as additional insureds, and
providing that it will not be reduced or canceled without written notice to the
Parade Administrator. Insurance coverage shall include coverage of injury to
any persons and damage to any property caused by the parade or public gathering
or arising therefrom, or from the specific activities occurring as part of the
parade and public gathering, whether occurring on or off the site of the parade
or public gathering.
      (14)   Noise. All permittees shall insure compliance with the county’s
community noise standards as embodied within the county General Plan noise
element. Specifically, all parades and public gatherings shall comply with the
following standards:
 
Land Use Category of Neighboring        Acceptable Noise Level at Property Line
Properties Adjacent to the Site of the  of the Site of the Public Gathering
Public Gathering                        (Community Exposure Ldn or CNEL.dB.)
Amphitheater, auditorium, concert hall  60
Church, hospital, library, neighborhood
park, nursing home, outdoor spectator
sports facility, playground,            65
residential structure (all densities),
school, sports arena
Cemetery, golf course, hotel, motel,
riding stables, water recreation        70
facility
Business commercial building, office
building, professional commercial       75
building
Agriculture, industrial, manufacturing  80
utilities
Source: San Benito County General Plan noise element
 
      (15)   Miscellaneous. In lieu of denial of an application, the Parade
Administrator may impose upon any applicant any other condition which
conditions are reasonably calculated as necessary to protect the health,
welfare and property of local residents and persons participating in, or
attending the parade or public gathering. Such conditions may include, without
limitation, the requirement to pay for any otherwise unreimbursed costs
incurred by the county.
(1966 Code, § 14-14) (Ord. 688, § 1(part); Ord. 703, § 1(part))
§ 19.27.030 REVOCATION OF PERMITS.
   (A)   Mandatory revocation by Parade Administrator. The Parade Administrator
shall revoke a permit authorizing an event if the Parade Administrator
determines that there were grounds for denying the permit, as set out in this
chapter, which were first disclosed or otherwise made known to the Parade
Administrator after issuance of the permit and such facts were not discoverable
by the exercise of due diligence by the Parade Administrator prior to the
issuance of the permit.
   (B)   Discretionary revocation by Parade Administrator. The Parade
Administrator may revoke a permit authorizing an event if the Parade
Administrator determines that the event is being conducted in violation of the
terms and conditions of the permit or that event participants have violated any
applicable law or regulations; provided, however, that this division shall not
authorize the revocation of a permit because of the need to protect
participants from the conduct of others unless there are insufficient resources
available to provide necessary police protection. The Parade Administrator
shall not revoke a permit in the manner provided by this division unless and
until the Parade Administrator advises the permittee or responsible event
participants of the violation and provides a reasonable opportunity to correct
the violation.
   (C)   Notice of intent to revoke. When the Parade Administrator intends to
consider revocation of a permit prior to the date of event, the Parade
Administrator shall immediately cause a written notice of such action to be
served on the permittee in person or by fax and shall provide copies of the
notice to the county’s Administrative Officer and County Counsel. However,
where the Parade Administrator decides to consider revocation of a permit on
the day of the event and has learned of the facts justifying revocation within
24 hours of the event, the Parade Administrator shall announce the action to
the event participants, to those county officers and employees monitoring or
controlling traffic during the event, and to the person in charge of the event,
if the person can be located at the site of the event. Thereafter, the Parade
Administrator shall cause a written notice of the action to be delivered to the
permittee and posted at the site of the event. The Parade Administrator shall
also provide copies of the notice to the county’s Administrative Officer and
the County Counsel.
   (D)   Hearing of revocation. In all cases, except where the Parade
Administrator gives a notice of intent to revoke the permit within 24 hours of
the event, the applicant shall have a right to a hearing before the county’s
Administrative Officer or his or her designee within 24 hours of the
revocation; provided that the event is scheduled at least 48 hours after the
request for hearing is made. The hearing shall be at the county’s
Administrative Officer’s office not later than 4:00 p.m. on the day after the
hearing is requested, unless otherwise agreed upon. The county’s Administrative
Officer shall issue a decision orally at the conclusion of the hearing and
shall also notify the applicant, the Parade Administrator and the County
Counsel, in writing, of the county’s Administrative Officer’s decision.
   (E)   Content of notices of revocation. Any notification of action by the
Parade Administrator or county’s Administrative Officer taken pursuant to this
section, whether oral or written, shall describe with particularity the facts
and the reasons for the decision. Any such written notice may be by facsimile,
or by any written document signed or sent by the Parade Administrator or the
county’s Administrative Officer, as the case may be.
(1966 Code, § 14-15) (Ord. 688, § 1(part); Ord. 703, § 1(part))
§ 19.27.031 APPEALS.
   Any person aggrieved by a decision of the Parade Administrator made under
this article may appeal such decision as specified herein. The appeal shall be
in writing on a form provided by the Parade Administrator and shall set forth
the specific basis of the alleged error. The failure to file a timely appeal as
specified herein in compliance with this section will result in the automatic
dismissal of any appeal and will constitute a waiver of any right to object to
the decision of the Parade Administrator.
   (A)   Level 1 or Level 2 appeals. In the case of a Level 1 or Level 2 parade
application appeal, the applicant shall file the appeal in writing with the
county’s Administrator within two working hours following notification of the
decision of the Parade Administrator. Upon receipt of the written appeal, the
county’s Administrative Officer shall set the matter for hearing to be
conducted not more than two working hours after the filing of the appeal. After
the appeal hearing, the county’s Administrative Officer shall render a decision
on the appeal, consistent with the provisions of this article. In rendering a
decision on the appeal, the county’s Administrator shall sustain, modify or
reverse the decision of the Parade Administrator.
   (B)   Level 3 or Level 4 appeals. In the case of a Level 3 or 4 parade
application appeal, the applicant shall file an appeal in writing with the
county’s Administrative Officer within 24 hours after the decision of the
Parade Administrator. Upon receipt of the written appeal, the county’s
Administrative Officer shall set the matter for hearing to be conducted not
more than 24 hours after the filing of the appeal. Following the appeal
hearing, the county’s Administrative Officer shall render a decision on the
appeal, consistent with the provisions of this article. In rendering a decision
on the appeal, the county’s Administrative Officer shall sustain, modify or
reverse the decision of the Parade Administrator.
(1966 Code, § 14-16) (Ord. 688, § 1(part); Ord. 703, § 1(part))
§ 19.27.032 NON-TRANSFERABILITY.
   A parade/public gathering permit issued pursuant to this article may not be
assigned or transferred, in whole or in part.
(1966 Code, § 14-17) (Ord. 688, § 1(part); Ord. 703, § 1(part))
§ 19.27.033 CORDONING OF THE ROUTE OR SITE OF AN EVENT.
   The Public Works Director is authorized and directed to place barricades on
or within the roads, parking facilities, sidewalks or other public rights-of-
way, and to undertake such other actions as may be necessary to cordon off the
route or site of an event authorized by a permit, including the temporary
closure of appropriate county roads or property. In addition, the Public Works
Director shall, when appropriate, post the route or site of the event as a no-
parking zone for the duration of the event and sufficiently in advance thereof
as may be necessary to prevent vehicles from parking along the route or at the
site of the event.
(1966 Code, § 14-18) (Ord. 688, § 1(part); Ord. 703, § 1(part))
§ 19.27.034 VIOLATIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, acting alone or in concert with any
other person or persons to do any of the following:
   (A)   Conduct or operate an event without first procuring a permit to do so;
   (B)   Conduct or operate an event inconsistent with the permit for the
event;
   (C)   Sell tickets or offer to sell tickets to an event without a permit
first having been obtained;
   (D)   Sell or offer for sale tickets to an event in excess of the maximum
number of persons that may attend the parade or public gathering as specified
in the permit;
   (E)   Advertise, or otherwise publicly announce, that an event will be held
in the County of San Benito without a permit first having been received for the
conduct thereof;
   (F)   Provide entertainment at an event whether or not compensation is paid
for the performance of the entertainment, with the knowledge that a permit has
not been obtained;
   (G)   Operate, conduct or carry on an event, in such a manner as to create a
public or private nuisance;
   (H)   Physically obstruct, impede, hamper or otherwise interfere with any
event authorized by a permit or with any person, animal or vehicle
participating or used in the event;
   (I)   Drive a vehicle between vehicles or persons traversing the route of a
parade authorized by a permit when activities or persons are in motion;
   (J)   Park along or within any portion of the route or site of an event
authorized by a permit, when the route or site has been posted as a no-parking
zone by the Parade Administrator in the manner authorized by this chapter;
   (K)   Exhibit, show or conduct at or within an event any obscene, indecent,
vulgar or lewd exhibition, show, play, entertainment or exhibit, or matter by
whatever name designated;
   (L)   Allow any person at an event to cause or create a disturbance in,
around or near the event by offensive or by disorderly conduct;
   (M)   Knowingly allow any person to consume, sell or be in possession of
intoxicating liquor while at an event except where the consumption or
possession is expressly authorized under the terms of this ordinance and under
the laws of the State of California;
   (N)   Knowingly allow any person attending an event to use, sell or be in
possession of any narcotic, or dangerous or illegal drug while in, around, or
near the location of the event; and/or
   (O)   Knowingly attend an event with the intent to sell products or perform
services for hire, with the knowledge that the required permit for such event
has not been obtained.
(1966 Code, § 14-19) (Ord. 688, § 1(part); Ord. 703, § 1(part))
§ 19.27.035 BOUNDARY LINE STREETS.
   This article shall not apply to a boundary line street where portions of a
county road is within a different jurisdiction unless the authority having
jurisdiction over the portion of the street concerned approves of this article.
The Parade Administrator shall identify all potential boundary line streets and
shall submit this article to any pertinent jurisdiction to obtain approval of
the regulations contained herein.
(1966 Code, § 14-19.1) (Ord. 688, § 1(part); Ord. 703, § 1(part))
§ 19.27.036 CRIMINAL PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any of the provisions of this article is guilty of a
misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished by imprisonment in
the county jail not to exceed six months, or by fine not to exceed $1,000 or by
both the fine and imprisonment.
(1966 Code, § 14-19.2) (Ord. 688, § 1(part); Ord. 703, § 1(part))
§ 19.27.037 PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   Any violation of this chapter is unlawful and a public nuisance and shall be
abated, eliminated and enjoined as provided in
Chapter 1.03 of this code.
(1966 Code, § 14-19.3) (Ord. 688, § 1(part); Ord. 703, § 1(part))
§ 19.27.038 REMEDIES CUMULATIVE.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided by law, the remedies provided in this
chapter are cumulative and not exclusive.
   (B)   Nothing in this chapter is intended, or shall be deemed or construed,
to limit or impair the ability of the county, or any of its officers, agents or
employees, to take any administrative or judicial action, otherwise authorized
by law, to abate any public nuisance.
   (C)   
Chapter 1.03 of this code is hereby incorporated by reference as though its
provisions were fully set forth herein.
(1966 Code, § 14-19.4) (Ord. 688, § 1(part); Ord. 703, § 1(part))
§ 19.27.039 PERMANENT PARADES OR PUBLIC GATHERINGS.
   It shall be unlawful to conduct a parade or a public gathering on a
permanent basis without first obtaining a use permit therefor, pursuant to
Title 25 of the San Benito County Code. It shall be unlawful to hold a
temporary gathering of persons without first obtaining a permit for a temporary
use, pursuant to Title 25 of the San Benito County Code, if the permit be
required.
(1966 Code, § 14-19.5) (Ord. 688, § 1(part); Ord. 703, § 1(part))
ARTICLE III. REWARDS
§ 19.27.050 INFORMATION CONCERNING INTERFERENCE WITH COUNTY SIGNS.
   The county offers a reward of $250 for the furnishing of information leading
to the apprehension and conviction of any person or persons for the theft of,
or the malicious removal, destruction, injury, breaking or defacing of any
county sign, milepost, board or stone, or guidepost erected on or near any
highway, or any inscription thereon.
(1966 Code, § 14-20) (Ord. 521, § 1(part))
§ 19.27.051 INFORMATION CONCERNING THEFT OF COUNTY SIGNS.
   The county offers a reward of $250 for the furnishing of information leading
to the apprehension and conviction of any person or persons for a violation of
Cal. Penal Code § 496, when the stolen property consists of a sign, milepost,
board or stone, or guidepost of, or belonging to, the county.
(1966 Code, § 14-21) (Ord. 521, § 1(part))
§ 19.27.052 PAYMENT.
   Any reward authorized by this article shall be paid for upon the order of
the Board of Supervisors of the county upon, and after, recommendation for the
payment by the District Attorney of the county. The Board of Supervisors shall
be the sole judge of the party or parties entitled to receive any reward.
(1966 Code, § 14-22) (Ord. 521, § 1(part))
CHAPTER 19.29: GENERAL PLAN AND SPECIFIC PLAN - LOCAL PROCEDURES
Section
   
19.29.001   Definitions
   
19.29.002   Purpose; application
   
19.29.003   Initiation of General Plan/Specific Plan adoption/amendment.
   
19.29.004   Application process
   
19.29.005   (Reserved)
   
19.29.006   Costs
§ 19.29.001 DEFINITIONS.
   The following definitions shall apply to this chapter.
   APPLICATION. A proposal to amend the San Benito County General Plan or to
adopt or amend a Specific Plan. Unless the context requires otherwise,
application shall include a proposal generated either by the County or by an
interested person.
   BOARD OF SUPERVISORS. The San Benito County Board of Supervisors.
   COUNTY. The County of San Benito.
   DWELLING UNIT. One or more rooms in a building designed for or used as a
residence and constituting a separate and independent housekeeping dwelling
unit.
   GENERAL PLAN AMENDMENT. A partial or complete modification or change to the
General Plan of the County of San Benito.
   INTERESTED PARTY. Any person, partnership, corporation, limited liability
company, or unincorporated association of persons.
   PLANNING COMMISSION. The San Benito County Planning Commission, a planning
agency created by San Benito County Code §§
3.05.050 et seq.
   PLANNING DIRECTOR. The San Benito County Building and Planning Director.
   SPECIFIC PLAN. A plan which embodies the systematic implementation of the
General Plan for all or part of the area covered by the San Benito County
General Plan. A Specific Plan must comply with all requirements specified in
Cal. Gov’t Code §§ 65450 et seq.
   RESIDENTIAL DENSITY. The ratio of single-family residential dwelling units
to acreage.
(1966 Code, § 30-7.0) (Ord. 819, § 1)
§ 19.29.002 PURPOSE: APPLICATION.
   The purpose of this chapter is to specify local procedures, consistent with
state law, governing the consideration of amendments to the County's General
Plan, or the consideration of a Specific Plan or amendments thereto. Any
approval granted pursuant to this chapter does not exempt an application from
Chapter 21.07 of the San Benito County Code (Growth Management System).
(1966 Code, § 30-1.0) (Ord. 819, § 1)
§ 19.29.003 INITIATION OF GENERAL PLAN/SPECIFIC PLAN ADOPTION/AMENDMENT.
   Either the county, or any interested party, may initiate the consideration
of a General Plan amendment or a Specific Plan or Specific Plan amendment. The
county may initiate a General Plan amendment or consideration of a Specific
Plan by formal action of the Planning Commission or the Board of Supervisors.
Any interested party may apply with the Planning Department for the
consideration of a General Plan amendment or for the consideration of a
Specific Plan or Specific Plan amendment. Each amendment may include more than
one change to the General Plan. Consequently, the Planning Director may
consolidate applications in order to limit the total number of annual
amendments. For purposes of this section, the adoption or amendment of a
Specific Plan shall constitute an amendment of the County General Plan.
(1966 Code, § 30-2.0) (Ord. 819, § 1; Ord. 885, § 1; Ord. 1047, § 2, 2022; Ord.
1048, § 2, 2022)
§ 19.29.004 APPLICATION PROCESS.
   (A)   Filing of application. An application shall not be filed unless
accompanied by the appropriate application fee, an executed agreement to pay
all county costs for processing the application and a completed application in
a form specified by the Planning Director.
   (B)   Determination of complete application. Upon the filing of an
application, the Planning Department shall review the application for
completeness. The Planning Department shall notify an applicant of the Planning
Department's determination whether the application is complete within 30 days.
The Planning Department shall notify an applicant of the Planning Department's
determination.
   (C)   CEQA review. The Planning Director shall review all applications for
compliance with the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA).
   (D)   Consideration of application. The Planning Director shall schedule
necessary hearings, prepare the requisite notice and staff reports and
otherwise ensure compliance with all provisions of state law relevant to the
consideration of amendments to General Plans or the adoption or amendment of a
Specific Plan.
   (E)   Planning Commission review. The Planning Commission shall hold at
least one public hearing to consider all applications. Notice of the public
hearing shall be given pursuant to Cal. Gov’t Code § 65090. The Planning
Commission shall make a written recommendation to the Board of Supervisors
about the application.
   (F)   Board of Supervisors action upon Planning Commission's recommendation
to the Board of Supervisors. After receipt of the Planning Commission's written
recommendation, the Board of Supervisors shall consider the application at a
public hearing. Notice of the public hearing shall be given pursuant to Cal.
Gov’t Code § 65090. The actions of the Board of Supervisors shall be consistent
with Cal. Gov’t Code §§ 65355 through 65358 as well as other provisions
pertinent to General Plans and Specific Plans.
(1966 Code, § 30-3.0) (Ord. 819, § 1)
§ 19.29.005 (RESERVED)
§ 19.29.006 COSTS.
   (A)   County costs. The county shall recover all county costs of processing
applications. The Board of Supervisors, from time to time, shall specify, by
written resolution, the fees for the various proceedings including those
authorized by this chapter.
   (B)   Applicant's agreement. As a condition of filing an application for any
request, all applicants shall be required to enter into an agreement with the
county. The agreement which shall be in a form specified by the County Counsel
and approved by the Board of Supervisors, shall require the applicant to pay
all costs incurred by the county in considering the application. The agreement
shall further require an applicant to indemnify and defend the county from all
claims or losses resulting from the consideration of the application and from
the county's action thereon.
(1966 Code, § 30-6.0) (Ord. 819, § 1)
CHAPTER 19.31: DEVELOPMENT LIGHTING
Section
   
19.31.001   Intent and purpose
   
19.31.002   Applicability
   
19.31.003   Definitions
   
19.31.004   Approved materials and methods of construction or installation/
operation
   
19.31.005   Establishment of lighting zones
   
19.31.006   General requirements; all zones
   
19.31.007   Special requirements; Zone I
   
19.31.008   Special requirements; Zone II
   
19.31.009   Special requirements; Zone III
   
19.31.010   Airport lighting
   
19.31.011   Application requirements
   
19.31.012   Temporary lighting permits
   
19.31.013   Nonconforming uses
   
19.31.014   Variances
   
19.31.015   Conflicting regulations
   
19.31.016   Violations and enforcement
   
19.31.017   Appeal
   
Exhibit A:     Zone map
§ 19.31.001 INTENT AND PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to encourage lighting practices and systems
which will: minimize light pollution, glare, light trespass, conserve energy
and resources while maintaining night-time safety, utility, security and
productivity; and curtail the degradation of the night time visual environment.
The Board of Supervisors recognizes that topographic and atmospheric conditions
within the county are uniquely suited for astronomical observation, that an
observatory has been established at Fremont Peak State Park and that star
gazing activities are also provided at Pinnacles National Monument. Therefore,
the Board of Supervisors, through the provisions herein contained, desires and
intends to preserve and protect the nighttime visual environment by regulating
outdoor lighting, which interferes with astronomical observations and the
enjoyment of the night sky, while simultaneously promoting energy conservation
and maintaining night time safety, utility, security and productivity. The
adverse effects of outdoor lighting on the light pollution over light-sensitive
park areas is strongly dependent on the distance of those lights from the
parks, therefore, three lighting zones are hereby established, allowing
increased flexibility in the uses of outdoor lighting at greater distances from
these light-sensitive park areas.
(1966 Code, § 32-1) (Ord. 748 § 1(part))
§ 19.31.002 APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   New uses, buildings and additions. The provisions of this chapter
shall apply to all proposed new land uses, developments, buildings, structures
or building additions.
   (B)   Non-conforming uses; structures or lots. Whenever a non-conforming
use, structure or lot is abandoned for a period of one year and then
recommenced or changed to a new use, then any existing outdoor lighting shall
be reviewed and brought into compliance with the provisions of this chapter as
necessary for the entire building, structure or premises, to the maximum extent
possible as determined by the Planning Director.
   (C)   County streetlights. All streetlights installed on county roadways or
private roadways within the county shall be shielded and shall use low-pressure
sodium (LPS) lamps. All existing streetlights on county roadways or private
roadways within the county, that requires repair or replacement shall be
repaired or replaced to use shielded low-pressure sodium lamps.
(1966 Code, § 32-2) (Ord. 748 § 1(part))
§ 19.31.003 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Interpretation. All words used in the present tense shall include the
future tenses, and all words in the singular shall include the plural. “Lot”
includes the word “plot”, “building” includes the word “structure”, and the
word “shall” is mandatory and not “discretionary”. The word “county”, as used
herein, shall mean the County of San Benito, a political subdivision of the
State of California, the words “Board of Supervisors” shall mean the Board of
Supervisors of the County of San Benito, the words “Planning Commission” shall
mean the Planning Commission of the County of San Benito, and the words “county
boundary” shall mean the territorial boundary of the County of San Benito.
   (B)   Definition of certain terms. Unless specifically defined below, words
or phases used in this chapter shall be interpreted so as to give them the
meaning they have in common usage and to give this chapter its most reasonable
application.
      ACREAGE, NET. The remaining ground area after deleting all portions for
proposed and existing streets within a development or subdivision.
      CLASS 1 LIGHTING. All outdoor lighting used for activities where color
rendition is essential to preserve the effectiveness of the activity.
Designation of Class 1 requires a finding by the Planning Director of the
essential nature of color rendition for the lighting application. Recognized
Class 1 uses are: outdoor eating and retail food and beverage service areas;
outdoor manufacturing areas; display lots; outdoor assembly areas such as
concert or amphitheater; service station canopies.
      CLASS 2 LIGHTING. All outdoor lighting used for, but not limited to,
illumination for walkways, roadways, equipment yards, parking lots and outdoor
security where general illumination for safety or security of the grounds is
the primary concern.
      CLASS 3 LIGHTING. Any outdoor lighting used for decorative effects
including, but not limited to, architectural illumination, flag and monument
lighting, and illumination of trees, bushes, and the like.
      COUNTY ROADWAYS. The same meaning as the terms “highways” and “county
highways”, as defined in Cal. Streets and Highways Code §§ 23 and 25.
      DEVELOPMENT PROJECT. Any residential, commercial, industrial or mixed-use
development plan, any application to amend the General Plan and zoning
designation of specific property, and/or any other proposed use of real
property which is submitted to the county for approval under Titles 23
(Subdivision Ordinance) or 25 (Zoning Ordinance) of this code.
      DIRECT ILLUMINATION. Illumination resulting from light emitted directly
from a lamp or luminaries, not light diffused through translucent signs or
reflected from other surfaces such as the ground or building faces.
      FULLY SHIELDED FIXTURE. An outdoor light fixture shielded in such a
manner that all light emitted by the fixture, either directly from the lamp or
indirectly from the fixture, is projected below the horizontal plane as
determined by photometric test or certified by the manufacturer.
      INSTALLED LIGHTING. A light fixture that is attached, or fixed in place,
whether or not connected to a power source.
      LUMEN. The unit used to measure the actual amount of light that is
produced by a lamp.
      LUMINARIES. The complete lighting assembly, less the support assembly.
For purposes of determining total light output from luminaries, lighting
assemblies that include multiple unshielded, partially or fully shielded lamps
on a single pole or standard shall be considered as a single unit.
      LUMINOUS TUBE. A glass tube filled with a gas of gas mixture (including
neon, argon, mercury or other gases), usually of small diameter (ten to 15
millimeters), caused to emit light by the passage of an electric current, and
commonly bent into various forms for use as decorations or signs. A “neon” tube
does not include common fluorescent tubes.
      MULTI-CLASS LIGHTING. Any outdoor lighting used for more than one
purpose, such as security and decoration, such that its use falls under the
definition of two or more classes as defined for Class 1, 2 and 3 lighting.
      NEON SIGN. A sign including luminous tubes formed into text, symbols or
decorative elements that are directly visible from outside the sign cabinet.
For purposes of this chapter, the signs are considered as opaque-background
internally illuminated signs.
      OPAQUE. Material that does not transmit light from an internal
illumination source.
      OUTDOOR LIGHT FIXTURES. Outdoor electrically powered illuminating
devices, outdoor lighting or reflective surfaces, lamps and similar devices,
either permanently installed or portable, which are used for illumination or
advertisement. The devices shall include, but are not limited to, search, spot
and floodlights for:
         (a)   Buildings and structures;
         (b)   Recreational areas;
         (c)   Parking lot lighting;
         (d)   Landscape and architectural lighting;
         (e)   Billboards and other signs (advertising or other);
         (f)   Street lighting; and
         (g)   Product display area lighting.
      OUTDOOR LIGHT OUTPUT, TOTAL. The initial amount of light, measured in
lumens, from all lamps used in outdoor light fixtures including all lights and
luminous tubing for Class 1, Class 2, Class 3 and multi-class lighting, and
lights used for external illumination of signs but not including lights used to
illuminate internally illuminated signs or luminous tubing used in neon signs.
For lamp types that vary in their output as they age (such as high-pressure
sodium, fluorescent and metal halide), the initial lamp output as defined by
the manufacturer, is the value to be considered. For determining compliance
with Zones I, II and III requirements of this chapter, the light emitted from
outdoor light fixtures is to be included in the total output as follows:
         (a)   Outdoor light fixtures installed on poles (such as parking lot
luminaries), light fixtures installed on the sides of buildings or other
structures, and interior light fixtures installed in open-sided barns, arenas
or similar structures, when not shielded from above by the structure itself as
defined in divisions (b) and (c) of this definition, are to be included in the
total outdoor light output by simply adding the rated lumen outputs of the
lamps used;
         (b)   Outdoor light fixtures installed under canopies, building
overhangs or roof eaves where the center of the lamp or luminaries is located
at least five feet but less than ten feet from the nearest edge of the canopy
or overhang are to be included in the total outdoor light output as though they
produced only one-quarter of the lamp’s rated lumen output;
         (c)   Outdoor light fixtures located under the canopy and ten or more
feet from the nearest edge of a canopy, building overhang or eave are to be
included in the total outdoor light output as though they produced only one-
tenth of the lamp’s rated lumen output.
      OUTDOOR RECREATION FACILITY. An area designed for active outdoor
recreation, whether publicly or privately owned, including, but not limited to,
baseball diamonds, soccer and football fields, golf courses, tennis courts and
swimming pools.
      PERSON. Any individual, lessee, firm, partnership, association, joint
venture, corporation or agent of the aforementioned groups or the county or any
agency or political subdivision thereof.
      PLANNING DIRECTOR. The Director of Planning for the county.
      PRIVATE ROADWAYS. All privately owned roads, streets, lanes, alleys, cul-
de-sacs and other byways that do not meet the definition of “county roadways”.
      SIGN. Any medium, including its structure and component parts, which is
used or intended for advertising purposes other than the unilluminated painting
on the surface of a building.
      SIGN, EXTERNALLY ILLUMINATED. Any sign illuminated by light sources from
the outside of the sign cabinet.
      SIGN, INTERNALLY ILLUMINATED. Any sign which has the source of light
entirely enclosed within the sign and not directly visible to the eye.
      TEMPORARY LIGHTING. Lighting which does not conform to the provisions of
this chapter and which will not be used for more than one 30-day period within
a calendar year, with one 30-day extension. TEMPORARY LIGHTING is intended for
uses that by their nature are of limited duration; e.g. holiday decorations,
civic events or construction projects.
      USE, ABANDONMENT OF. The relinquishment of a property right, or the
cessation of a use of or activity on real property, by the owner or tenant
thereof for a continuous period of one year, excluding temporary or short term
interruptions for the purpose of remodeling, maintaining or otherwise improving
or rearranging a facility. A use shall be deemed abandoned when the use is
suspended as evidenced by the cessation of activities or conditions that
constitute the principle use of the property.
      WATT. The unit used to measure the electrical power consumption of a
lamp.
(1966 Code, § 32-3) (Ord. 748 § 1(part))
§ 19.31.004 APPROVED MATERIALS AND METHODS OF CONSTRUCTION OR INSTALLATION/
OPERATION.
   (A)   Preferred source. Low-pressure sodium lamps are the preferred
illumination source throughout the county.
   (B)   Alternates. The provisions of this chapter are not intended to prevent
the use of any design, material or method of installation or operation or
technological improvements not specifically prescribed herein, provided the
Planning Director has approved any such alternate. The Planning Director may
approve any such proposed alternate provided he or she finds that it:
      (1)   Provides at least approximate equivalence to the applicable
specific requirements of this chapter; and
      (2)   Is otherwise satisfactory and complies with the intent of this
chapter.
(1966 Code, § 32-4) (Ord. 748 § 1(part))
§ 19.31.005 ESTABLISHMENT OF LIGHTING ZONES.
   (A)   (1)   Three lighting zones are hereby established:
         (a)   Zone I is in two parts centered at Fremont Peak State Park
(36°45'27" N, 121°30'10" W) and Pinnacles National Monument Visitor Center
(36°28'54" N, 121°10'45" W); the outer boundary of Zone I is set at five miles
from the centers of these park areas;
         (b)   Zone II extends eight miles from the outer boundary of Zone I;
and
         (c)   Zone III is all remaining property within the county.
      (2)   These zones are shown on Exhibit A to this chapter and by this
reference made a part hereof.
   (B)   A parcel located in more than one of the described zones shall be
considered to be located only in the more restrictive zone.
(1966 Code, § 32-5) (Ord. 748 § 1(part))
§ 19.31.006 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS; ALL ZONES.
   (A)   Outdoor floodlighting by flood light projection above the horizontal
plane is prohibited.
   (B)   All light fixtures that are required to be shielded shall be installed
in such a manner that the shielding is effective as described in §
19.31.003, for fully shielded fixtures.
   (C)   All light fixtures, except streetlights, shall be located, aimed or
shielded so as to minimize stray light trespassing across property boundaries.
   (D)   Search lights, laser source lights or any similar high-intensity light
shall not be permitted, except, in emergencies, by police and/or fire
personnel, or at their direction, or for purposes of gathering meteorological
data.
   (E)   Class 1 lighting may continue only until 9:00 p.m. or for as long as
the area is in active use. See Table 1 of this section, and §
19.31.003, for an explanation of and list of recognized uses for the different
classes of lighting.
   (F)   Illumination of outdoor recreational facilities must conform to the
shielding standards of
Table 19.31.006(1) of this section.
   (G)   Multi-class lighting must either conform to the lamp-type and
shielding requirements of the most restrictive class, as shown in
Table 19.31.006(1) of this section, or conform to the time limitations of the
least restrictive class, as shown in §§
19.31.007,
19.31.008 and
19.31.009 of this chapter.
   (H)   External illumination for signs shall conform to the provisions of
this chapter and Title 25 (Zoning Ordinance) of this code. In particular, the
lighting shall be treated as Class 1 lighting and shall conform to the lamp
source, shielding restrictions, and lumen limitations of
Table 19.31.006(1) of this section and §§
19.31.007,
19.31.008 and
19.31.009 of this chapter. All upward directed sign lighting is prohibited.
   (I)   On projects where an engineer or architect is required, the property
owner shall verify in writing to the county that all outdoor lighting was
installed in accordance with the approved plans.
   (J)   Service station canopy lighting. In addition to the calculations for
lighting in Zones I, II and III, the following requirements apply to service
station canopies:
      (1)   All luminaries mounted on the under surface of service station
canopies shall be fully shielded and utilize flat glass or flat plastic
(acrylic or polycarbonate) covers.
      (2)   The total light output used for illuminating service station
canopies, defined as the sum of all under-canopy initial bare-lamp outputs in
lumens, shall not exceed 40 lumens per square foot of canopy in Zones II and
III, and shall not exceed 20 lumens per square foot in Zone I. All lighting
mounted under the canopy, including but not limited to luminaires mounted on
the lower surface of the canopy and auxiliary lighting within signage or panels
over the pumps, is to be included toward the total.
   (K)   (1)   Neon lighting is permitted, so long as lumen calculations from
such lighting are included in the total lumen calculations for the site,
required by this section. Lumens are calculated on a per foot basis, rather
than per “fixture”. The lighting shall also be subject to the shielding
requirements of this section, unless exempted by
Table 19.31.006(1) of this section.
Table 19.31.006(1) Table of Lamp Source and Shielding Standards
Lamp Type Zone I Zone II Zone III
Table 19.31.006(1) Table of Lamp Source and Shielding Standards
Lamp Type                               Zone I Zone II Zone III
COMMERCIAL USES*
Class 1 lighting (color rendition):
Low-pressure sodium above 2,000 lumens  F      F       F
Others types – 2,000 lumens and greateX      F       F
All types below 2,000 lumens            F**    F       F
Class 2 lighting (general illumination):
Low-pressure sodium above 2,000 lumens  F      F       F
Others types – 2,000 lumens and greateX      X       X
All types below 2,000 lumens            F**    F       F
Class 3 lighting (decorative):
Low-pressure sodium above 2,000 lumens  F      F       F
Others types - 2,000 lumens and greater X      F       F
All types below 2,000 lumens            F**    A       A
SINGLE FAMILY AND DUPLEX USE
All types 1,000 lumens and greater      F      F       F
All types less than 1,000 lumens        A      A       A
Use Code:
A = Unshielded lights allowed; shielding not required but highly
recommended. (Unshielded lights are limited to a maximum of 5,500 lumens per
net acre in all zones).
F = Allowed, fully shielded
X = Prohibited, except as noted.
* Commercial uses include commercial, industrial, business park and
multiple-family residential.
** Non-LPS lighting in Zone I is limited to a maximum of 5,500 lumens per
net acres.
 
      (2)   Examples of lamp types of 2,000 lumens and below are (initial
outputs of lamps, as specified by the manufacturer, on values to be
considered):
         (a)   One hundred Watt Standard Incandescent (tungsten, halogen or
quartz);
         (b)   Thirty Watt High Pressure Sodium;
         (c)   Thirty Watt Cool White T12 Fluorescent;
         (d)   Twenty-five Watt TB Fluorescent; and
         (e)   Eighteen Watt Low Pressure Sodium.
(1966 Code, § 32-6) (Ord. 748 § 1(part))
§ 19.31.007 SPECIAL REQUIREMENTS; ZONE I.
   (A)   Total outdoor light output, excluding streetlights used for
illumination of county roadways or private roadways related to of any
development project in Zone I shall not exceed 25,000 initial raw lamp lumens
per net acre, averaged over the entire project. Non-LPS lighting permitted in
Table 19.31.006(1) of this chapter is limited to a total of 5,500 initial raw
lamp lumens per net acre.
   (B)   Outdoor recreational facilities are not subject to the lumens per net
acre limit set in this division. However, no such facility in Zone I shall be
illuminated after 9:00 p.m., except to conclude a scheduled recreational or
sporting event in progress prior to 9:00 p.m.
   (C)   Outdoor internally illuminated advertising signs shall be constructed
with an opaque background and translucent letters and symbols. Lamps used for
internal illumination of the signs shall not be included in the lumens per net
acre limit set in this section. The signs shall be turned off at 9:00 p.m. or
when the business closes, whichever is later.
   (D)   Class 3 lighting must be extinguished at 9:00 p.m. or when the
business closes, whichever is later, except that low-wattage holiday
decorations may remain on all night from November 15 through January 15.
(1966 Code, § 32-7) (Ord. 748 § 1(part))
§ 19.31.008 SPECIAL REQUIREMENTS; ZONE II.
   (A)   (1)   Total outdoor light output (excluding streetlights used for
illumination of county roadways or private roadways related to any development
project in Zone II shall not exceed 50,000 initial raw lamp lumens per net
acre, averaged over the entire project.
      (2)   Furthermore, no more than 5,500 initial raw lamp lumens per net
acre may be accounted for by lamps in unshielded fixtures permitted in
Table 19.31.006(1) of this chapter.
   (B)   Outdoor recreational facilities in Zone II shall not be illuminated
after 11:00 p.m., except to conclude a scheduled recreational or sporting event
in progress prior to 11:00 p.m.
   (C)   Outdoor internally illuminated advertising signs shall be constructed
either with an opaque background and translucent letters and symbols, or with a
colored (not white, cream, off-white or yellow) background and lighter letters
and symbols. Lamps used for internal illumination of the signs shall not be
included in the lumens per net acre limit set in this section. The signs shall
be turned off at 11:00 p.m. or when the business closes, whichever is later.
   (D)   Class 3 lighting must be extinguished at 11:00 p.m. or when the
business closes, whichever is later, except that low-wattage holiday
decorations may remain on all night from November 15 to January 15.
(1966 Code, § 32-8) (Ord. 748 § 1(part))
§ 19.31.009 SPECIAL REQUIREMENTS; ZONE III.
   (A)   Total outdoor light output (excluding streetlights used for
illumination of county roadways or private roadways) related to any development
project in Zone III shall not exceed 100,000 initial raw lamp lumens per net
acre, averaged over the entire project. Furthermore, no more than 5,500 initial
raw lamp lumens per net acre may be accounted for by lamps in unshielded
fixtures permitted in
Table 19.31.006(1) of this chapter.
   (B)   Outdoor recreational facilities in Zone III shall not be illuminated
after 11:00 p.m. except to conclude a scheduled recreational or sporting event
in progress prior to 11:00 p.m.
   (C)   Outdoor internally illuminated advertising signs shall be constructed
with either an opaque background and translucent letters and symbols, or with a
colored (not white, cream, off-white or yellow) background and lighter letters
and symbols. Lamps used for internal illumination of the signs shall not be
included in the lumens per net acre limit set in this division. The signs shall
be turned off at 11:00 p.m. or when the business closes, whichever is later.
(1966 Code, § 32-9)
§ 19.31.010 AIRPORT LIGHTING.
   Airport lighting which is required for the safe and efficient movement of
aircraft during flight, takeoff, landing and taxiing is exempt from the
provisions of this chapter. Lighting used for illumination of aircraft loading,
unloading and servicing areas is exempt from the lumens per acre limits of
Zones I, II or III, although it must conform to all other requirements (e.g.,
shielding) of this chapter. All other outdoor lighting at airport facilities
shall comply with the provisions of this chapter.
(1966 Code, § 32-10) (Ord. 748 § 1(part))
§ 19.31.011 APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Whenever a person is required to obtain a building permit, electrical
permit for outdoor lighting or signage and/or approval of any development
project, including all county projects, or whenever a person requests
annexation into the City of Hollister or City of San Juan Bautista, the
applicant shall, as a part of the application, submit sufficient information to
enable the Planning Director to determine whether the proposed lighting will
comply with the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   The application shall include the following:
      (1)   A site plan indicating the proposed location of all outdoor
lighting fixtures and signs;
      (2)   A description of each illuminating device, fixture, lamp, support
and shield. This description may include, but is not limited to, manufacturer’s
catalog cuts and drawings (including sections where required), lamp types and
lumen outputs;
      (3)   Photometric data, such as that furnished by manufacturers, or
similar, showing the angle of cut-off of light emissions for the proposed
luminaires; and
      (4)   Such other information as the Planning Director may determine is
necessary to ensure compliance with the provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   If the Planning Director determines that the proposed lighting does
not comply with the provisions of this chapter, the permit shall not be issued
or the plan approved.
(1966 Code, § 32-11) (Ord. 748 § 1(part))
§ 19.31.012 TEMPORARY LIGHTING PERMITS.
   (A)   The Planning Director may grant a permit for temporary lighting, if he
or she finds the following:
      (1)   The purpose for which the lighting is proposed is not intended to
extend beyond 30 days;
      (2)   The proposed lighting is designed in such a manner as to minimize
light pollution and trespass as much as is feasible;
      (3)   The proposed lighting will comply with the general intent of this
chapter; and
      (4)   The permit will be in the public interest.
   (B)   The application for the temporary lighting permit shall include the
following information:
      (1)   Name and address of applicant and property owner;
      (2)   Location of proposed fixtures;
      (3)   Type, wattage and lumen output of lamp(s);
      (4)   Type and shielding of proposed fixtures;
      (5)   Intended use of the lighting;
      (6)   Duration of time for requested exemption;
      (7)   The nature of the exemption; and
      (8)   Such other information as the Planning Director may request.
   (C)   The Planning Director shall rule on the application within five
business days from the date of submission of the request and notify the
applicant in writing of his or her decision. The Planning Director may grant
one renewal of the permit for an additional 30 days if he or she finds that,
because of an unanticipated change in circumstances, a renewal would be in the
public interest. The Planning Director is not authorized to grant more than one
temporary permit and one renewal for a 30-day period for the same property
within one calendar year.
(1966 Code, § 32-12) (Ord. 748 § 1(part))
§ 19.31.013 NON-CONFORMING USES.
   (A)   The non-conforming use of land or buildings, non-conforming as to
lighting requirements of this chapter, may be continued, transferred and sold
provided that no such use may be enlarged or increased, nor be extended to
occupy a greater area than that which it lawfully occupied, prior to becoming a
non-conforming use. If any such use is abandoned, subsequent use of the land or
building shall be brought into conformance with the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Any construction permit which invokes the Uniform Building Code’s
certificate of occupancy requirements shall specify and require that any non-
conforming sign, non-conforming as to lighting requirements of this chapter,
located within the boundaries of the development site authorized by the permit,
shall be brought into conformance with the provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   No outdoor lighting fixture which was lawfully installed prior to the
enactment of this chapter shall be required to be removed or modified except as
expressly provided in this section; however, no modification or replacement
shall be made to a non- conforming fixture unless the fixture thereafter
conforms to the provisions of this chapter.
   (D)   In the event that any non-conforming sign, non-conforming as to
lighting requirements of this chapter, is abandoned or is damaged, and, if
damaged, the damage exceeds 50% of the reproduction value, exclusive of
foundations, to replace it, the sign shall be brought into conformance with the
provisions of this chapter.
(1966 Code, § 32-13) (Ord. 748 § 1(part))
§ 19.31.014 VARIANCES.
   Any person desiring to install an outdoor lighting fixture not allowed by
this chapter may apply to the Planning Commission for a variance from the
regulation in question, as provided for in Title 25 (Zoning Ordinance) of this
code.
(1966 Code, § 32-14)
§ 19.31.015 CONFLICTING REGULATIONS.
   In the event of conflict between the provisions of this chapter and any
other regulations applicable to the same property and proposed use thereof, the
more restrictive provisions shall govern.
(1966 Code, § 32-15) (Ord. 748 § 1(part))
§ 19.31.016 VIOLATIONS AND ENFORCEMENT.
   It shall be unlawful to install or operate an outdoor light fixture in
violation of this chapter. Any outdoor light fixture erected, maintained and/or
used contrary to the provisions of this chapter is unlawful and a public
nuisance and shall be abated, eliminated and enjoined as provided in
Chapter 1.03 of this code. Any person violating any provisions of this chapter
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
punished as provided in
Chapter 1.03 of this code. Each and every day during which the illegal
erection, maintenance and use continues is a separate offense.
(1966 Code, § 32-16) (Ord. 748 § 1(part))
§ 19.31.017 APPEAL.
   Any person aggrieved by any decision of the Planning Director may appeal the
decision as provided for in Title 25 (Zoning Ordinance) of this code.
(1966 Code, § 32-17)
EXHIBIT A: ZONE MAP
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/fb9621aeb40cfcace25e7d8581ab7f5ecac73a18/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4235.jpg]
 
Click_here_for_PDF_version_of_above_image.
CHAPTER 19.33: MANAGEMENT AND CONSERVATION OF WOODLANDS
Section
   
19.33.001   Findings
   
19.33.002   Definitions
   
19.33.003   Purposes
   
19.33.004   Exemptions
   
19.33.005   Discretionary permit
   
19.33.006   Prohibited modifications of real property
   
19.33.007   Canopy retention standard
   
19.33.008   Applicability
   
19.33.009   Applications
   
19.33.010   Permit limitations and conditions
   
19.33.011   Fees
   
19.33.012   Undertakings
   
19.33.013   Inspection
   
19.33.014   Appeals
   
19.33.015   Finality of decision
   
19.33.016   Enforcement
   
Exhibit A:     Trees Native to San Benito County
Cross-reference:
   University of California Integrated Hardwood Range Management Program,
California Department of Forestry and Fire Protection, A  Planner’s Guide for
Oak Woodlands, 1993 Berkeley, California
§ 19.33.001 FINDINGS.
   The Board of Supervisors of the County of San Benito finds and declares as
follows:
   (A)   The many benefits that woodlands provide to communities are well
known. The woodlands reduce air and noise pollution, provide shade and cooling,
furnish habitat for wildlife, stabilize soils and protect against erosion,
enhance aesthetics and property values and are an important contributor to
community image and quality of life.
   (B)   Oak woodlands are an integral part of California’s living environment
and provide cover, breeding area, and food for over 331 vertebrate species. Of
the 632 terrestrial vertebrates (amphibians, reptiles, birds and mammals)
native to California, 331 use oak woodlands for food, cover and reproduction.
   (C)   Mature Blue Oak Foothill Pine, Blue Oak and Valley Oak hardwoods cover
portions of western, central, and northeastern areas of the county (265,000
acres +/-) but there is little evidence of successful regeneration. (San Benito
County General Plan — Open Space and Conservation Element, Page 9)
   (D)   (1)   One component of the health of a woodlands habitat is the
horizontal and vertical arrangement of vegetation (spacing, mix of ages, sizes
and species). Piecemeal fragmentation of woodlands habitat will compromise the
viability of the resources for range management, wildlife, water and soil
quality.
      (2)   The California Board of forestry policy in its forest and rangeland
resources assessment program is for the protection, enhancement and restoration
of hardwood habitat to assure that hardwood species are for regeneration,
protection of soil and water quality, and provision of sufficient habitat
diversity to protect the viability of critical wildlife species. Implementation
of the program is passive to some extent and relies on research, education,
monitoring and coordination with local governments and private landowners.
(Pacific Meridian Resources for Strategic and Resources Planning Program,
CDFFP, Protecting Critical Hardwood Resources with Landowner Conservation
Incentive Techniques, March 1993)
   (E)   Woodlands provide a wide variety of functions, values and benefits
including essential functional elements of the plant communities and habitat
for wildlife that constitute San Benito County’s natural heritage.
   (F)   Trees stabilize soil and improve water quality by reducing erosion and
sedimentation and provision for the natural replenishment of ground water
supplies by reducing stormwater runoff.
   (G)   Woodlands are essential in the preservation and enhancement of
aesthetic qualities of the natural and built environments and maintaining the
quality of life and general welfare of the county.
   (H)   Trees assist in reducing air pollution by absorption of carbon
dioxide, ozone, particulate matter and oxygen production and counteract the
effects of global warming resulting from the depletion of forest and urban
trees.
   (I)   Woodlands conserve energy by means of shade and wind speed reduction
and water conservation through reduction of evapotranspiration from the upper
layers of soil.
   (J)   Woodlands promote increased property values.
(1966 Code, § 33-1) (Ord. 757, § 1(part))
§ 19.33.002 DEFINITIONS.
   The following definitions apply to this chapter.
   ARBORIST.
      (1)   A person currently certified by the western chapter of the
International Society of Arboriculture as an expert on the care of trees;
      (2)   A consulting arborist who satisfies the requirements of the
American Society of Consulting Arborists; or
      (3)   Such other qualified professionals who the Director determines have
gained through experience the qualifications to identify, remove or replace
trees.
   BASELINE RETENTION CANOPY SURVEY (BRCS). An aerial photograph taken in 1993
by the United States Department of Agriculture of San Benito County that shows
the existing canopy coverage for areas within San Benito County.
   CANOPY. The spread of the branches and the area within them from the top of
the trunk to the outside diameter edge of an individual tree, massed
individuals or massed groupings of trees as shown on the baseline aerial
photograph.
   CANOPY RETENTION STANDARD (CRS). The allowable amount of canopy removal. It
defines a horizontal and vertical relationship between the coverage of
vegetation canopies as they cast an overlay above the ground. The specific
definitions for the horizontal and vertical retention standard are as follows:
      (1)   HORIZONTAL RETENTION STANDARD. The acreage of canopy coverage for a
specific area when viewed from above. This definition shall apply to individual
or massed individual trees within a site. The horizontal retention standards
are shown in
Table 19.33.007(1).
      (2)   VERTICAL RETENTION STANDARD. The reduction of the diameter of the
outermost edges of the canopy (crown) of an individual tree. The amount of
branching to be retained for the individual tree crown during pruning for any
reason shall not exceed 25% of the outside diameter of the crown. A cut below
the crown is prohibited.
   CLEAR CUTTING. The removal of native woodland trees, more than 90% of the
baseline retention standard for canopy cover for a specific site over a time
period of less than or equal to ten years. Specific canopy reduction standards
based upon percentages are shown in
Table 19.33.007(1) of this chapter.
   CROWN. The area of the tree between the outside diameter of the canopy to
its lowermost edge where the primary branching structure meets the trunk and
splints into separate multi-branching.
   DISCRETIONARY PERMIT. A permit issued by the county on a zoning /development
application that requires judgment in making a decision to approve, approve
with conditions, or deny an application.
   DIRECTOR. The Director of the San Benito County Planning Department or his
or her designee.
   GRADING. Excavating, filling, dredging, disking, prospecting, exploratory
digging and drilling for geotechnical reports.
   NATIVE TREE. Any tree listed in
Exhibit A, Trees Native to San Benito County.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, association, corporation, organization or
partnership, or any city, county, district or the state or any department or
agency thereof.
   SITE. A parcel, lot or a series of contiguous parcels of land for which a
permit is requested or issued to conduct tree removal pursuant to this chapter.
   TREE REMOVAL. The destruction of any protected tree or the alteration of any
protected tree which may adversely affect the health and survival of the tree.
Routine trimming and pruning inconsistent with vertical retention standards is
considered TREE REMOVAL for the purpose of this chapter.
   WOODLAND. A tree, or combination of trees, occupying an area which includes
lower growing forms of vegetation.
(1966 Code, § 33-2) (Ord. 757, § 1(part))
§ 19.33.003 PURPOSES.
   (A)   The purpose of this chapter is to establish regulations for the
conservation and protection of woodlands in the unincorporated areas of San
Benito County by limiting tree removal in a manner which allows for reasonable
use and enjoyment of the property. The Interim Woodlands Management Ordinance
codified in this chapter will stay in effect until such time as it is replaced
by a successor woodland management ordinance.
   (B)   This chapter is intended to:
      (1)   Control the removal of protected woodlands and maintain and enhance
tree cover on improved and unimproved property to ensure that values and
benefits provided by native trees are realized;
      (2)   Prevent the unpermitted wholesale removal of a majority of native
trees on a parcel prior to application for a development permit;
      (3)   Protect woodland environments on agricultural land through an
educational outreach program; and
      (4)   Educate residents of the county about the functions, benefits and
values of woodlands to further the protection, conservation and regeneration of
trees.
   (C)   The Board of Supervisors of the County of San Benito finds it in the
public interest to adopt a woodland conservation and protection ordinance for
the purpose of promoting the health, safety and general welfare of the
residents of San Benito County.
(1966 Code, § 33-3) (Ord. 757, § 1(part))
§ 19.33.004 EXEMPTIONS.
   The following woodland tree removal activities shall be considered exempt
from a discretionary permit:
   (A)   When trees are on slopes of less than 30% grade, the percentage of
removal of individual and/or masses of woodland trees is equal to the baseline
percentage of the canopy retention percentage in
Table 19.33.007(1) subtracted from 100%. For example, if the calculated canopy
retention equals 75%, then 25% of canopy may be removed.
   (B)   Removal of trees or branches that have fallen from natural causes;
   (C)   Removal of cultivated trees such as nursery stock Christmas trees or
the like so long as they have remained in a cultivated state; and
   (D)   Removal of trees associated with comprehensive statewide eradication
of diseased trees with the authorization of the county’s Agricultural
Commissioner.
(1966 Code, § 33-4) (Ord. 757, § 1(part))
§ 19.33.005 DISCRETIONARY PERMIT.
   A discretionary permit shall be required for the removal of woodlands when:
   (A)   The removal of individual and or masses of trees within woodlands of
between 90% and 100% as per the canopy retention standard in
Table 19.33.007(1) within a period of ten years; or
   (B)   Any tree removal is located on slopes greater than or equal to 30%.
(1966 Code, § 33-5) (Ord. 757, § 1(part))
§ 19.33.006 PROHIBITED MODIFICATIONS OF REAL PROPERTY.
   To benefit the public welfare, and to allow woodlands within San Benito
County to stabilize from being in a state of decline, it shall be unlawful to
perform any of the following modifications: clear cutting, grading in a manner
that removes woodlands, vegetation removal and similar projects as defined in
this chapter.
(1966 Code, § 33-6) (Ord. 757, § 1(part))
§ 19.33.007 CANOPY RETENTION STANDARD.
   (A)   
Table 19.33.007(1) shall be used to determine the minimum amounts of woodland
canopy that must be retained during site modification or maintenance on any
parcel:
Table 19.33.007(1) Canopy Retention Standard
Canopy Retention Standard Shall Be the Greater of Column a or Column B:
Baseline Canopy Cover (1) Column A (2) Column B (2)
Table 19.33.007(1) Canopy Retention Standard
Canopy Retention Standard Shall Be the Greater of Column a or Column B:
Baseline Canopy Cover (1) Column A (2)                Column B (2)
80-100%                   .75 x baseline canopy cover 65% canopy covert
60-79%                    .80 x baseline canopy cover 51% canopy cover
40-59%                    .85 x baseline canopy cover 36% canopy cover
20-39%                    .90 x baseline canopy cover 19% canopy cover
19% or less               1.0 x baseline canopy cover    —
 
   (B)   Individual trees and or massed individual trees shall be included in
the calculation of canopy retention standard. Example: For 50% baseline canopy,
the minimum allowable canopy after modification and maintenance would be the
greater of Column A, (0.85 times 50% equals 42.5% canopy) or Column B, (36%
canopy). In this example, the minimum allowable canopy after modification and
maintenance would be 42.5%. Pursuant to §
19.33.005, if the canopy is located on a slope of 30% or greater the canopy
retention area (the percentage of removal of individual and/or masses of
woodland trees is equal to the baseline percentage of the canopy retention
percentage in this table subtracted from 100%) must be increased by a factor of
50%.
   (C)   Canopy retention standard shall be applied to retain undisturbed
woodlands as a priority over retention of individual trees. No more than 10% of
the canopy retention standard may be met by individual trees not included
within designated woodlands.
(1966 Code, § 33-7) (Ord. 757, § 1(part))
§ 19.33.008 APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   This chapter shall apply to all unincorporated lands in San Benito
County and for which either of the following conditions applies:
      (1)   Parcels covered by at least 10% woodland vegetation as determined
by the baseline retention canopy survey which is on file with the county’s
Planning Division; and
      (2)   Parcels that currently support or historically supported native
trees or other woody vegetation but were farmed to agricultural crops at the
time of the aforementioned baseline aerial photography.
   (B)   The County of San Benito shall be authorized to determine whether the
provisions of this chapter apply to any specific parcel. The burden of proof
that the ordinance should not be applied to a specific parcel shall be on the
property owner.
   (C)   Except as otherwise exempted by this chapter, no person shall do any
tree cutting or removal without first obtaining a permit from the Planning
Director. A separate permit shall be required for each site. A “tree pruning/
removal permit” is not transferable.
(1966 Code, § 33-8) (Ord. 757, § 1(part))
§ 19.33.009 APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   Three sets of plans will be required with all applications for a “tree
pruning/removal permit”. Each plan sheet shall be of suitable scale and size.
All applications shall be signed by owners of each parcel of property on which
tree cutting or removal will be conducted.
   (B)   Plans shall be drawn to suitable scale and size upon substantial
reproducible material and shall be of sufficient clarity to indicate the nature
and extent of the work proposed and show in detail that it will conform to the
provisions of this chapter and all other relevant laws, ordinances and
regulations. The location of the work, the name and address of the owner, and
the parcel number of the property on which the tree cutting is to be done shall
be clearly shown on each set of plans. The base line aerials may be the best
base for submittals. The plans shall include the following information:
      (1)   A statement as to the specific intentions or ultimate purpose for
which the tree cutting or removal is being done;
      (2)   General vicinity of the proposed site;
      (3)   Property limits and contours (USGS contours may be used) of
existing ground and details of terrain and area drainage;
      (4)   Location of any building or structures on the property which may be
affected where the work is to be performed and the location of any buildings or
structures on land of adjacent owners which are within 15 feet of the property
or which may be affected by the proposed tree cutting or removal;
      (5)   Approximate start and completion dates; and
      (6)   Other information required by the county necessary to adequately
describe and analyze the proposed project.
   (C)   Applications for tree cutting or removal that do not contain the
required information will not be accepted.
(1966 Code, § 33-9) (Ord. 757, § 1(part))
§ 19.33.010 PERMIT LIMITATIONS AND CONDITIONS.
   (A)   Issuance. The issuance of a “tree pruning/removal permit” shall be the
responsibility of the Planning Director and shall constitute an authorization
to do only that work which is described or illustrated on the approved plans
and specifications.
   (B)   Approved plans. When the Planning Director issues the permit, all of
the plans and specifications shall be endorsed “Approved”. The approved plans
and specifications shall not be changed, modified or altered without written
authorization by the Planning Director. All work shall be done in accordance
with the approved plans, building permits and this chapter.
   (C)   Conditions of approval.
      (1)   In granting any permit under this chapter, the county shall attach
such conditions as necessary to prevent creation of a public nuisance or hazard
to public or private property. The conditions may include, but shall not be
limited to:
         (a)   Hours and days of week of work performance;
         (b)   Revegetation plan detailing the revegetation of all exposed
surfaces during site modification and maintenance; and
         (c)   Prohibition of removal of some trees.
      (2)   All reforestations required as a condition of approval must be
initiated at least one year before any permit for clearing, grading or
construction is issued. The Planning Director, at his or her sole discretion,
may withhold the issuance of any or all permits for longer periods to ensure
that an adequate level of reforestation is attained prior to the start of
project construction.
   (D)   Denial of permit.
      (1)   An application for a “tree pruning/removal permit” shall be denied
if the Planning Director makes any of the following findings:
         (a)   That the proposal is not consistent with the applicable General
Plan or Specific Plans adopted by San Benito County;
         (b)   That the project, as proposed, will cause excessive and
unnecessary disturbance of the site or requires excessive cutting on slopes
greater than 30% in slope;
         (c)   That the work proposed will create an unavoidable adverse
environmental impact; or
         (d)   That the work proposed causes a public nuisance.
      (2)   The county shall notify the applicant in writing of a denial or
conditions for denial, and shall state the reasons therefore.
   (E)   Work time limits. The permit holder shall fully perform and complete
all of the work required to be done within the time limit specified. If no time
limit is specified, the permit holder shall complete the work within 180 days
after the date of the issuance of the permit.
   (F)   Expiration of permit. Every permit issued under this chapter shall
expire if the work authorized is not commenced within 90 days from the date of
permit issuance, or if the work authorized is commenced and then suspended for
a period of 90 days, unless the suspension is approved.
(1966 Code, § 33-10) (Ord. 757, § 1(part))
§ 19.33.011 FEES.
   The fee for plan check and issuance of a “tree pruning/removal permit” shall
be $100.
(1966 Code, § 33-11) (Ord. 757, § 1(part))
§ 19.33.012 UNDERTAKINGS.
   The county may require an undertaking of bond, cash deposits or letters of
credit for tree cutting or removal in such form and amounts as may be deemed
necessary to assure that the work, if not completed in accordance with the
approved plans and specifications will be corrected by replanting. The Planning
Director may take action against the bond if a determination is made that
specific conditions listed in the permit were not met.
(1966 Code, § 33-12) (Ord. 757, § 1(part))
§ 19.33.013 INSPECTION.
   All tree cutting or removal operations for which a permit is required shall
be subject to inspection by the county. The permit holder, or his or her agent,
shall notify the county when the operation is ready for final inspection. The
required bonding, cash deposit or letter of credit may be released after the
county grants a final approval.
(1966 Code, § 33-13) (Ord. 757, § 1(part))
§ 19.33.014 APPEALS.
   (A)   Appellant; appeals body. Any interested party may appeal any final
decision of the Planning Director made under this chapter to the Planning
Commission or any decision of the Planning Commission to the Board of
Supervisors. For the purposes of this section, the Planning Commission or the
Board of Supervisors, when acting as the body hearing an appeal, shall be
referred to as the “Appeals Body”.
   (B)   Time for appeal; application; fee; grounds. Any appeal shall be filed
with the appropriate appeals body not later than five days after the challenged
decision. The appeal shall be made on an application form approved by the
Planning Department and accompanied by the required fee. The specific grounds
for the appeal shall be stated. Omitted grounds shall not be considered and the
appellant’s failure to state a ground constitutes a waiver of the right to
subsequently raise the omitted ground.
   (C)   Hearing; evidence. The appeal shall be a public hearing conducted de
novo. The hearing shall commence at the next available meeting date of the
appeals body after the filing of the appeal. In no event shall the hearing
commence later than 60 days after the filing of the appeal. The hearing may be
continued at the discretion of the appeals body; but in no event shall the
hearing be continued for more than 60 days, unless consented to by the property
owner and the appellant, if other than the property owner. The appeals body
shall consider any relevant, reliable evidence. The admission of evidence shall
not be governed by the formal rules of evidence. Rather, any evidence which may
be relied upon by a reasonable person conducting serious business affairs shall
be admitted.
   (D)   Basis for decision. The appeals body shall state the basis for its
decision by written resolution. If the appeals body acts to reverse or modify
the decision it reviews, it shall state the nature of the error requiring the
reversal or modification.
   (E)   Notice of appeal. The notice of appeal also shall be given to the
property owner if property owner is not the appellant. In all cases, a notice
of appeal shall be published in a newspaper of general circulation at least ten
days in advance of the commencement of the hearing.
(1966 Code, § 33-14) (Ord. 757, § 1(part))
§ 19.33.015 FINALITY OF DECISION.
   Any initial decision made by the Planning Director or Planning Commission
under this chapter is not final until the later date of either:
   (A)   If no appeal is filed, the expiration of the time for the filing of an
appeal; or
   (B)   If an appeal is filed, the date a final decision is made by the
appeals body hearing the final appeal possible under this chapter.
(1966 Code, § 33-15) (Ord. 757, § 1(part))
§ 19.33.016 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Enforcement officials. All departments, officials and public employees
of the county which are vested with the duty and authority under the San Benito
County Subdivision, Zoning and Code Enforcement Ordinances shall enforce all
the provisions of this chapter. Any permit given in conflict with the
provisions of this chapter shall be null and void.
   (B)   Violation of chapter; criminal. Any person, firm or corporation,
whether its principal agent or employee or otherwise violating any of the
provisions of this chapter, shall be guilty of an infraction, punished as
provided in
Chapter 1.03 of the county code.
   (C)   Violation of chapter; public nuisance. Any tree cutting or removal
conducted or operated contrary to the provisions of this chapter shall be, and
the same declared to be a public nuisance and shall be abated, eliminated and
enjoined as provided in
Chapter 1.03 of the county code.
   (D)   Remedies cumulative. Except as otherwise provided by law, the remedies
provided in this chapter are cumulative and not exclusive. Nothing in this
chapter is intended or shall be deemed or construed to limit or impair the
ability of the county, or any of its officers, agents or employees, to take any
administrative or judicial action, otherwise authorized by law, to abate any
public nuisance.
Chapter 1.03 of the county code is hereby incorporated by reference as though
its provisions were fully set forth herein.
(1966 Code, § 33-16) (Ord. 757, § 1(part))
EXHIBIT A: TREES NATIVE TO SAN BENITO COUNTY
Trees Native to San Benito County
Black Oak, Quercus kelloggii
Blue Oak, Quercus coublasii
Blue Oak-Foothill Pine
California Bay, Umbellularia californica
California Black Walnut, Juglans hindsii
California Buckeye, Aesculus californica
California Juniper
California Pepper, kSchinus molle
Canyon Live Oak, Quercus chrysolepis
Coast Live Oak, Quercusagrifolia
Coastal Redwood
Common Manzanita, Arctostaphylos manzanita
Coulter Pine
Digger Pine
Englelmann Oak, Quercus engelniannii
Gowen’s Cypress, Cupressus gowenia
Incense Cedar, Calocedrus decurrens
Interior Live Oak, Quercus wislizenii
Jeffery Pine
Madrone, Arbutus menziesii
Monterey Pine, Pinus radiata
Mountain Mahoganey, Comarostaphylis diuersifolia
Pacific Wax Myrtle, Myrica californica
Red Shanks, Adenosterma sparsifolium
Scrub Oak
Sycamore
Tanbark Oak, Lithocarpus densiflora Valley Oak, Quercus lobata
 
CHAPTER 19.35: APPLE MAGGOT PROTECTION
Section
   
19.35.001   Purpose
   
19.35.002   Definitions
   
19.35.003   Restrictions on movement of apple maggot host material
   
19.35.004   Handling of fruit waste
   
19.35.005   Treatment for apple maggot
   
19.35.006   Abatement of apple maggot
   
19.35.007   Movement of fruit from infested orchards
   
19.35.008   Penalties
   
19.35.009   Violation of chapter; public nuisance
   
19.35.010   Remedies cumulative
Cross-reference:
   Agricultural Provisions, see
Chapter 19.01 of this code
§ 19.35.001 PURPOSE.
   Apple maggot, Rhagoletis pomonella, is a serious apple pest, not known to
occur in San Benito County. To protect the county’s apple industry, it is
necessary to restrict movement of hosts and possible carriers of apple maggot
into the county and to treat any commercial orchards in which the pest is
detected.
(1966 Code, § 18B-1) (Ord. 644, § 1(part))
§ 19.35.002 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGRICULTURAL COMMISSIONER. The Agricultural Commissioner of San Benito
County.
   COMPLIANCE AGREEMENT. A written agreement into which the Agricultural
Commissioner may enter with any person, which agreement regulates for the
movement of hosts or other possible carriers of any pest from one area of the
state to another by establishing the treatment, harvesting, packing and
handling requirements that may be necessary to assure that the hosts or
carriers are not infested (Cal. Food and Agricultural Code § 5705).
   COUNTY. The County of San Benito.
(1966 Code, § 18B-2) (Ord. 644, § 1(part))
§ 19.35.003 RESTRICTIONS ON MOVEMENT OF APPLE MAGGOT HOST MATERIAL.
   (A)   The following articles and commodities are declared as hosts and
possible carriers of apple maggot:
      (1)   Apple fruit, of both commercial and non-commercial production; and
      (2)   Apple trees.
   (B)   Hosts and possible carriers are prohibited entry into San Benito
County except as follows:
      (1)   Commercially packed apples produced using conventional pest control
practices are not restricted. CONVENTIONAL PEST CONTROL PRACTICES means
treatment with pesticides at label dosages and on a schedule effective against
apple maggot;
      (2)   Commercially packed organic apples (apples produced by growers in
compliance with and registered under the California Organic Foods Act of 1990)
may enter the county if the producing orchard was trapped and found negative
for apple maggot;
      (3)   Commercially produced apples may enter the county in bulk for
packing, juicing, selling and processing only under a compliance agreement
between the importing company or person and the Agricultural Commissioner; and
      (4)   Apple trees which are free of fruit and bareroot or free of fruit
and certified by origin agricultural officials as being treated with a soil
drench effective against apple maggot may enter the county, subject to
inspection.
(1966 Code, § 18B-3) (Ord. 644, § 1(part))
§ 19.35.004 HANDLING OF FRUIT WASTE.
   Compliance agreements shall specify the conditions under which bulk fruit
may enter the county and the manner in which fruit and fruit waste shall be
handled by the importing company. Costs for monitoring compliance with the
agreement and inspection of incoming shipments shall be reimbursed to the
Agricultural Commissioner by the importer.
(1966 Code, § 18B-4) (Ord. 644, § 1(part))
§ 19.35.005 TREATMENT FOR APPLE MAGGOT.
   If apple maggot is detected in a commercial orchard, the orchard shall be
treated at the cost of the orchard owner using conventional pest control
practices in a manner approved by and under the supervision of the Agricultural
Commissioner. The owner shall also reimburse the Agricultural Commissioner for
the cost of supervising the treatment.
(1966 Code, § 18B-5) (Ord. 644, § 1(part))
§ 19.35.006 ABATEMENT OF APPLE MAGGOT.
   If apple maggot is detected in an orchard and the aforementioned treatment
is not conducted as required, the pest shall be abated as provided in Cal. Food
and Agriculture Code §§ 5401 et seq.
(1966 Code, § 18B-6) (Ord. 644, § 1(part))
§ 19.35.007 MOVEMENT OF FRUIT FROM INFESTED ORCHARDS.
   Fruit from an orchard in which apple maggot has been detected is prohibited
movement from the orchard unless the aforementioned treatment is conducted or
the fruit is moved for processing under written authorization of the
Agricultural Commissioner.
(1966 Code, § 18B-7) (Ord. 644, § 1(part))
§ 19.35.008 PENALTIES.
   Any person, firm, partnership, association or corporation who violated or
causes the violation of any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor which, upon conviction thereof, shall be punishable by a fine up to
maximum allowable for a misdemeanor by Cal. Penal Code § 19 or by imprisonment
in the county jail for a period up to maximum period allowable for a
misdemeanor by Cal. Penal Code § 19 or by both the fine and imprisonment.
(1966 Code, § 18B-8) (Ord. 644, § 1(part))
§ 19.35.009 VIOLATION OF CHANTER; PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   Any violation of this chapter or any violation of any compliance agreement
entered into pursuant to this chapter is unlawful and a public nuisance, and
shall be abated, eliminated and enjoined as provided in
Chapter 1.03 of this code.
(1966 Code, § 18B-9) (Ord. 644, § 1(part))
§ 19.35.010 REMEDIES CUMULATIVE.
   (A)   No application for a permit, license, entitlement or other grant of
approval shall be accepted by any county department until any violation of the
chapter is determined cleared by the Agricultural Commissioner, unless the
application is for the purpose of clearing the violation.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided by law, the remedies provided in this
chapter are cumulative and not exclusive. Nothing in this chapter is intended,
or shall be deemed or construed, to limit or impair the ability of the county,
or any of its officers, agents or employees to take any administrative or
judicial action, otherwise authorized by law, to abate any public nuisance.
Chapter 1.03 of this code is incorporated by reference as though its provisions
were fully set forth herein.
(1966 Code, § 18B-10) (Ord. 644, § 1(part))
CHAPTER 19.37: WEED ABATEMENT REGULATIONS
Section
Article I. Administration
   
19.37.010   Authority and title.
   
19.37.020   Purpose
   
19.37.030   Scope
   
19.37.040   Administration; Enforcing Officer
Article II. Definitions and Requirements
   
19.37.110   Definitions
   
19.37.120   Declarations of nuisance
   
19.37.130   Duty of owner(s) and occupant(s)
Article III. Enforcement and Costs
   
19.37.210   Administrative abatement
   
19.37.220   Abatement by owner or occupant
   
19.37.230   Enforcement
   
19.37.240   Liability for costs
Article IV. Other Remedies and  General Provisions
   
19.37.310   No duty to enforce
   
19.37.320   Remedies cumulative
ARTICLE I. ADMINISTRATION
§ 19.37.010 AUTHORITY AND TITLE.
   Pursuant to the authority granted to it by article XI, section 7 of the
California Constitution, Cal. Health and Safety Code §§ 14930 and 14931, and
Cal. Gov't Code §§ 25845 and 54988, the Board of Supervisors does enact this
chapter, which shall be known and may be cited as the "San Benito County Weed
Abatement Ordinance."
(Ord. 857, § 2 (part), 2010)
§ 19.37.020 PURPOSE.
   (A)   It is the intent of this chapter to require the owners and occupants
of real property in the unincorporated area of the county that is located
entirely within the territorial boundaries of the City of Hollister ("county
islands"), or partially within the territorial boundaries of the City of
Hollister ("county pockets"), or along certain urbanized edges of the City of
Hollister, as depicted in the map attached to Ordinance 857 and incorporated
herein by reference as Exhibit A, to maintain said properties to:
      (1)   Reduce the risk of uncontrolled fires and the harm they may cause
to individuals;
      (2)   Minimize the spread of any fire to other properties and buildings;
      (3)   Reduce obstructions to fire suppression efforts if a fire does
occur;
      (4)   Increase the opportunity for firefighters to successfully protect
lives, residences and other valuable buildings from wildfires;
      (5)   Protect populated areas such as suburban areas, and urban and rural
subdivisions from encroaching wildfires;
      (6)   Protect the public from vegetation otherwise noxious or dangerous,
including poison oak and poison ivy, in a condition of growth constituting a
menace to public health; and
      (7)   Protect public and private property from the encroachment of
vegetation otherwise noxious or dangerous to the public health, including
poison oak and poison ivy.
   (B)   It is the further intent of the county to seek voluntary compliance
with this chapter and to provide remedies if such compliance is not obtained.
(Ord. 857, § 2 (part), 2010)
§ 19.37.030 SCOPE.
   This chapter shall supplement but shall not supersede or limit any other
statute, regulation, or ordinance affecting the subject matter hereof,
including, but not limited to the other fire prevention and protection
statutes, regulations, and ordinances enacted by the state, the county, or any
other governmental agency having jurisdiction. These regulations shall apply in
the unincorporated area of the county that is located entirely within the
territorial boundaries of the City of Hollister ("county islands"), or
partially within the territorial boundaries of the City of Hollister ("county
pockets"), or along certain urbanized edges of the City of Hollister, as
depicted in the map attached to Ordinance 857 and incorporated herein by
reference as Exhibit A.
(Ord. 857, § 2 (part), 2010)
§ 19.37.040 ADMINISTRATION; ENFORCING OFFICER.
   Except as otherwise provided, this chapter shall be administered,
implemented, and enforced by the Code Enforcement Officer for San Benito
County, pursuant to
Chapter 1.03 (Code Enforcement Ordinance) of Title 1 (General Provisions; Code
Enforcement) of the San Benito County Code. The Board of Supervisors may
appoint one or more enforcing officers, who may be officers or employees of the
county or of another public entity acting pursuant to an agreement with the
county.
(Ord. 857, § 2 (part), 2010)
ARTICLE II. DEFINITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS
§ 19.37.110 DEFINITIONS.
   Except where the context otherwise requires, the following definitions shall
govern the construction of this chapter:
   ABATEMENT. Mitigation or elimination of a fire hazard or other violation of
this chapter and such ongoing maintenance as is necessary to prevent the
recurrence of a fire hazard or other violation of this chapter.
   ABATEMENT COSTS. Any costs or expenses reasonably related to the abatement
of conditions which violate the San Benito County Code, and shall include, but
not be limited to, enforcement, investigation, collection and administrative
costs, and the costs associated with the removal or correction of the
violation.
   ADMINISTRATIVE COSTS. Shall include the cost of county staff time reasonably
related to enforcement, for items including, but not limited to, site
inspections, investigations, summaries, reports, notices, telephone contacts
and correspondence, as well as time expended by county staff calculating the
above costs and preparing itemized invoices showing such costs.
   DISKING. Tilling the soil so as to turn under or remove vegetation by
mechanical or hand operated methods including, but not limited to, tractor
drawn soil tilling equipment, self-propelled rotor-tilling equipment or hand
hoeing.
   FIRE HAZARD. That condition which exists when weeds, grass, rank growths,
shrubs, trees, or trimmings grow or accumulate upon real property and do, or
will when dry, create a medium for the rapid spread of fire.
   GRASS. Any herbaceous plant or any combination of dead weeds, grass or
vegetation, cultivated or not, which will attain, when mature, such a height as
to be a medium for the rapid spread of fire.
   MOWING. Cutting or shredding weeds, grass and other vegetation by hand or
mechanical methods.
   OCCUPANT. An adult person, or an entity, having a possessory interest in
real property. This includes a tenant, resident, or other person or entity
having possession, use, or control of the property.
   OWNER. An adult person, or an entity, having an ownership interest in real
property. OWNER does not include persons having only a security interest in the
property.
   PARCEL. Any parcel of real property that may be separately sold in
compliance with the Subdivision Map Act (Division 2 (commencing with § 66410)
of Title 7 of the Cal. Gov't Code).
   PARCEL LINE. The boundaries of the parcel.
   PROPERTY LINE. The boundaries of the contiguous real property under common
ownership or control.
   RANK GROWTH. Vegetation of any type, cultivated or not, which has attained
or will, if allowed to mature, attain such a height and density as to be a
medium for the rapid spread of fire.
   WEEDS. Vegetation which bears or may bear seeds of a downy or wingy nature;
other vegetation which may attain such large growth as to become, when dry, a
fire menace; and vegetation otherwise noxious or dangerous, including poison
oak and poison ivy in a condition of growth constituting a menace to public
health.
(Ord. 857, § 2 (part), 2010)
§ 19.37.120 DECLARATIONS OF NUISANCE.
   (A)   A fire hazard is a public nuisance that may be abated in accordance
with the provisions of
Chapter 1.03 (Code Enforcement Ordinance) of Title 1 (General Provisions; Code
Enforcement) of the San Benito County Code.
   (B)   Vegetation otherwise noxious or dangerous, including poison oak and
poison ivy, in a condition of growth constituting a menace to public health is
hereby declared to be a public nuisance that may be abated in accordance with
the provisions of
Chapter 1.03 (Code Enforcement Ordinance) of Title 1 (General Provisions; Code
Enforcement) of the San Benito County Code.
   (C)   Any other violation of this chapter is hereby declared to be a public
nuisance that may be abated in accordance with the provisions of
Chapter 1.03 (Code Enforcement Ordinance) of Title 1 (General Provisions; Code
Enforcement) of the San Benito County Code.
(Ord. 857, § 2 (part), 2010)
§ 19.37.130 DUTY OF OWNER(S) AND OCCUPANT(S).
   No owner or occupant of any parcel within the unincorporated area of San
Benito County that is located entirely within the territorial boundaries of the
City of Hollister ("county islands"), or partially within the territorial
boundaries of the City of Hollister ("county pockets"), or along certain
urbanized edges of the City of Hollister, as depicted in the map attached to
Ordinance 857 and incorporated herein by reference as Exhibit A, shall cause,
permit, suffer, or maintain upon that parcel any fire hazard, or vegetation
otherwise noxious or dangerous, in a condition of growth constituting a menace
to public health, or any other violation of this chapter.
(Ord. 857, § 2 (part), 2010)
ARTICLE III. ENFORCEMENT AND COSTS
§ 19.37.210 ADMINISTRATIVE ABATEMENT.
   Whenever the enforcing officer determines that a fire hazard, or vegetation
otherwise noxious or dangerous, in a condition of growth constituting a menace
to public health, or any other violation of this chapter exists on any real
property within the unincorporated area of San Benito County that is located
entirely within the territorial boundaries of the City of Hollister ("county
islands"), or partially within the territorial boundaries of the City of
Hollister ("county pockets"), or along certain urbanized edges of the City of
Hollister, as depicted in the map attached to Ordinance 857 and incorporated
herein by reference as Exhibit A, he or she is authorized to pursue
administrative abatement pursuant to §
1.03.005 of the San Benito County Code.
(Ord. 857, § 2 (part), 2010)
§ 19.37.220 ABATEMENT BY OWNER OR OCCUPANT.
   Any owner or occupant may abate the fire hazard, or vegetation otherwise
noxious or dangerous, in a condition of growth constituting a menace to public
health, or any other violation of this chapter, or cause it to be abated at any
time prior to commencement of abatement by, or at the direction of, the
enforcing officer.
(Ord. 857, § 2 (part), 2010)
§ 19.37.230 ENFORCEMENT.
   Whenever the enforcing officer becomes aware that an owner or occupant has
failed to abate a fire hazard, or vegetation otherwise noxious or dangerous, in
a condition of growth constituting a menace to public health, or any other
violation of this chapter, within the time specified for abatement, the
enforcing officer may take one or more or all of the following actions:
   (A)   Enter upon the property and abate the nuisance by county personnel, or
by private contractor under the direction of the enforcing officer. The
enforcing officer may apply to a court of competent jurisdiction for a warrant
authorizing entry upon the property for purposes of undertaking the work. If
any part of the work is to be accomplished by private contract, that contract
shall be submitted to and approved by the Board of Supervisors prior to
commencement of work. Nothing herein shall be construed to require that any
private contract under this Code be awarded through competitive bidding
procedures where such procedures are not required by the general laws of the
State of California or county ordinance.
   (B)   Request that the County Counsel commence a civil action to redress,
enjoin, and abate the public nuisance, pursuant to §
1.03.003 of the San Benito County Code.
(Ord. 857, § 2 (part), 2010)
§ 19.37.240 LIABILITY FOR COSTS.
   In any enforcement action brought pursuant to
Chapter 1.03 (Code Enforcement Ordinance) of Title 1 (General Provisions; Code
Enforcement) of the San Benito County Code, whether by administrative
proceedings, judicial proceedings, or summary abatement, each person who
causes, permits, suffers, or maintains the fire hazard, or vegetation otherwise
noxious or dangerous, in a condition of growth constituting a menace to public
health, or any other violation of this chapter, shall be liable for all costs
incurred by the county, including, but not limited to, administrative costs,
and any and all costs incurred to undertake, or to cause or compel any
responsible party to undertake, any abatement action in compliance with the
requirements of
Chapter 1.03 (Code Enforcement Ordinance) of Title 1 (General Provisions; Code
Enforcement) of the San Benito County Code, whether those costs are incurred
prior to, during, or following enactment of this chapter. The procedures set
forth in §
1.03.005(E) through (H) of the San Benito County Code shall apply to the
recovery of costs of abatement, pursuant to §
1.03.005.
(Ord. 857, § 2 (part), 2010)
ARTICLE IV. OTHER REMEDIES AND GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 19.37.310 NO DUTY TO ENFORCE.
   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed as imposing on the enforcing
officer or the county any duty to issue a notice to abate a fire hazard or any
other violation of this chapter, nor to abate a fire hazard or any other
violation of this chapter, nor to take any other action with regard to any fire
hazard or any other violation of this chapter, and neither the enforcing
officer nor the county shall be held liable for failure to issue an order to
abate a fire hazard or any other violation of this chapter, nor for failure to
abate any fire hazard or any other violation of this chapter, nor for failure
to take any other action with regard to any fire hazard or any other violation
of this chapter.
(Ord. 857, § 2 (part), 2010)
§ 19.37.320 REMEDIES CUMULATIVE.
   All remedies provided for herein are cumulative and not exclusive, and are
in addition to any other remedy or penalty provided by law.
(Ord. 857, § 2 (part), 2010)
CHAPTER 19.39: NOISE CONTROL REGULATIONS
Section
Article I. Administration
   
19.39.001   Authority and title
   
19.39.002   Purpose
   
19.39.003   Scope
Article II. Definitions
   
19.39.010   Definitions
Article III. Noise Disturbance Prohibited
   
19.39.020   Noise disturbance prohibited
Article IV. Sound Level Restrictions
   
19.39.030   Maximum permissible sound pressure levels
Article V. Specific Provisions
   
19.39.040   Special sound sources standards
Article VI. Exceptions and Exemptions
   
19.39.050   Emergency exception
   
19.39.051   Exemptions
   
19.39.052   Conditional use permits
Article VII. Additional Exemption Procedure
   
19.39.060   Additional exemption procedure
Article VIII. Enforcement and Costs
   
19.39.070   Administration; enforcing officer
   
19.39.071   Inspections
   
19.39.072   Records; measurements by owner/operator
   
19.39.073   General sound level measurement methodology
   
19.39.074   Duty to cooperate
   
19.39.075   Violations and penalties
   
19.39.076   Liability for costs
   
19.39.077   Remedies cumulative
   
19.39.078   No duty to enforce
ARTICLE I. ADMINISTRATION
§ 19.39.001 AUTHORITY AND TITLE.
   Pursuant to the authority granted to it by article XI, Section 7 of the
California Constitution, Cal. Health and Safety Code §§ 14930 and 14931, and
Cal. Gov't Code §§ 25845 and 54988, the Board of Supervisors does enact this
chapter, which shall be known and may be cited as the "San Benito County Noise
Control Regulations Ordinance."
(Ord. 872, § 2 (part), 2011)
§ 19.39.002 PURPOSE.
   (A)   At certain levels, sound becomes noise and may jeopardize the health,
safety or general welfare of county residents and degrade their quality of
life.
      (1)   By interfering with sleep, communication, relaxation and the full
use of one's property;
      (2)   By contributing to hearing impairment and a wide range of adverse
physiological and psychological stress conditions; and
      (3)   By adversely affecting the value of real property.
   (B)   This chapter is intended to establish county-wide standards regulating
noise. This chapter is not intended to establish thresholds of significance for
the purpose of any analysis required by the California Environmental Quality
Act and no such thresholds are established.
(Ord. 872, § 2 (part), 2011)
§ 19.39.003 SCOPE.
   This chapter shall supplement but shall not supersede or limit any other
statute, regulation, or ordinance affecting the subject matter hereof,
including, but not limited to other noise statutes, regulations, and ordinances
enacted by the state, the county, or any other governmental agency having
jurisdiction. These regulations shall apply in the unincorporated area of the
county.
(Ord. 872, § 2 (part), 2011)
ARTICLE II. DEFINITIONS
§ 19.39.010 DEFINITIONS.
   The following words, phrases and terms as used in this chapter shall have
the following meanings:
   AMBIENT NOISE LEVEL. The composite of noise from all sources near and far
and constitutes the normal or existing level of environmental noise at a given
location. The ambient noise level is the level obtained when the noise level is
averaged over a period of at least 15 minutes without inclusion of noise from
isolated identifiable sources, at the location and time of day near that at
which a comparison is to be made.
   A-WEIGHTED SOUND LEVEL. The sound pressure in decibels as measured on a
sound level  meter using the A-weighted network (scale) at slow meter response.
The unit of measurement is referred to herein as db(A) or dBA.
   AUDIO EQUIPMENT. A television, stereo, radio, tape player, compact disc
player, mp3 player, iPod or other similar device.
   COMPLAINANT. An individual who has provided information to the county
indicating that a violation of this chapter is occurring or has occurred at a
certain location. A complainant may be an owner, tenant, or lawful occupant, or
the agent or licensee of an owner, tenant or lawful occupant.
   CONSTRUCTION. Construction, erection, enlargement, alteration, conversion or
movement of any building, structures or land together with any scientific
surveys associated therewith.
   COUNTY. The unincorporated area of the County of San Benito, or if referring
to an entity, the County of San Benito.
   DAY. Shall be defined as 7:00 a.m. to 10:00 p.m.
   DECIBEL (dB). A logarithmic and dimensionless measure used in describing the
amplitude of sound.
   DWELLING. Any day care center, hospital, rest home, retirement home, group
home, single-family dwelling, duplex, triplex, multi-family dwelling, or mobile
home or other use of the same general type.
   EQUIVALENT A-WEIGHTED SOUND LEVEL (LEQ). The constant sound level that has
the same energy as the actual time-varying A-weighted sound level over a
specific period of time.
   EMERGENCY WORK. The use of any machinery, equipment, vehicle, manpower or
other activity in an effort to prevent or alleviate the physical trauma or
property damage that is caused by an emergency. To maintain, provide or restore
safe  conditions in the community or for citizenry, or work by private or
public utilities when restoring utility service.
   FREQUENCY. The number of times that a periodic function repeats the same
sequence of values during a unit variation of the independent variables. The
unit is the hertz and shall be specified.
   HERTZ. A unit of measurement of frequency, numerically equal to cycles per
second.
   NIGHT. Shall be defined as 10:00 p.m. to 7:00 a.m. the following calendar
day.
   NOISE. Any sound or vibration that may disturb or annoy reasonable people of
normal sensitivities, or which causes, or tends to cause, an adverse effect on
the public health and welfare.
   NOISE DISTURBANCE. Any sound which: (1) is considered a noise; (2) endangers
or injures people; or (3) endangers or injures personal or real property.
   OCCUPIED PROPERTY. Property upon which is located a residence, business or
industrial or manufacturing use.
   PERSON. A person, firm, association, copartnership, joint venture,
corporation, or any entity, public or private in nature.
   PLAINLY AUDIBLE SOUND. Any sound for which the information content is
unambiguously communicated to the listener, such as, but not limited to,
understandable speech, comprehension of whether a voice is raised or normal,
repetitive bass sounds, or comprehension of musical rhythms, without the aid of
any listening device.
   PROPERTY PLANE. An imaginary line along the ground surface, and its vertical
extension, which separates the real property owned by one person from that
owned by another person, but not including intra-building real property
divisions.
   PUBLIC-RIGHT-OF-WAY. Any street, avenue, boulevard, highway, sidewalk,
alley, or similar place which is owned or controlled by a governmental entity.
   PUBLIC PROPERTY. Property owned by a governmental agency or held open to the
public, including, but not limited to, parks, streets, sidewalks, and alleys.
   RMS SOUND PRESSURE (PRMS). The square root of the time averaged square of
the sound pressure.
   SCHOOL. Public or private institutions conducting regular academic
instruction at preschool, kindergarten, elementary, secondary or collegiate
levels.
   SOUND. A temporal and spatial oscillation in pressure, or other physical
quantity, in a medium resulting in compression and rarefaction of that medium,
and which propagates at finite speed to distant locations.
   SOUND-AMPLIFYING EQUIPMENT. Any device for the amplification of the human
voice, music, or any other sound. This excludes standard automobile radios when
used and heard only by the occupants of the vehicle in which the radio is
installed, and warning devices on authorized emergency vehicles or horns or
other warning devices on any vehicle used only for traffic safety purposes.
   SOUND LEVEL. The conversion of sound pressure to a logarithmic measure
called the Decibel.
   SOUND LEVEL METER. An instrument meeting American National Standard
Institute's Standards S1.4-1971 for Type 2 sound level meters or an instrument
and the associated recording and analyzing equipment which will provide
equivalent data.
   SOUND PRESSURE. The instantaneous difference between the actual air pressure
and the average or barometric pressure at a given location.
   SOUND PRESSURE LEVEL (LP). Twenty times the logarithm to the base ten of the
ratio of the RMS sound pressure to the reference sound pressure, which shall be
20 micropascals.
   VIBRATION PERCEPTION THRESHOLD. Tthe minimum ground or structure-borne
vibrational motion necessary to cause a normal person to be aware of the
vibration by direct means as, but not limited, to sensation by touch or visual
observation of moving objects. The perception threshold will be presumed to be
a motion velocity of 1/100 inches per second over the range of one to 100Hz.
(Ord. 872, § 2 (part), 2011)
ARTICLE III. NOISE DISTURBANCE PROHIBITED
§ 19.39.020 NOISE DISTURBANCE PROHIBITED.
   No person shall unreasonably make, continue, or cause to be made or
continued, any noise disturbance. Unamplified, non-commercial public speaking
and public assembly activities conducted at conversational voice levels on any
public property or public right-of-way shall be exempt from the operation of
this article if such level is not plainly audible beyond 100 feet or does not
infringe on the legitimate rights of others.
(Ord. 872, § 2 (part), 2011)
ARTICLE IV. SOUND LEVEL RESTRICTIONS
§ 19.39.030 MAXIMUM PERMISSIBLE SOUND PRESSURE LEVELS.
   No person shall operate, or permit to be operated, on private property any
source of sound in such a manner as to create:
   (A)   A sound pressure level which exceeds the limits set forth for the
receiving land use category in Table 1 which may be measured at or within the
real property boundary of the receiving land use, or its vertical extension;
   (B)   A sound pressure level which exceeds the limits set forth for the
receiving land use category in Table 1 for more than 15 minutes in 60 minutes
which may be measured at or within the real property boundary of the receiving
land use, or its vertical extension; or
   (C)   An equivalent A-weighted sound level that exceeds the limits set forth
for the receiving land use category in Table 1 which may be measured at or
within the real property boundary of the receiving land use or its vertical
extension.
   (D)   A sound level that exceeds the ambient sound level by 5 dB which may
be measured at or within the real property boundary of the receiving land use
or its vertical extension.
   TABLE 1
   Maximum Sound Level Standards
 
LAND USE DESIGNATION          NOISE LEVEL (dBA)
                              Day Night
Ag Rangeland
Ag Productive                 45  35
Rural
Rural Transitional            45  35
Rural Residential
Single-Family (R1)
Residential Multiple (RM)     50  40
Planned Unit Development
Commercial (C-1)              65  55
Commercial (C-2)
Controlled Manufacturing (CM)
Light Industrial (M-1)        70  60
Heavy Industrial (M-2)
 
(Ord. 872, § 2 (part), 2011)
ARTICLE V. SPECIFIC PROVISIONS
§ 19.39.040 SPECIAL SOUND SOURCES STANDARDS.
   The general sound level standards set forth in § 19.39.030 apply to sound
emanating from all sources, including the following special sound sources, and
the person creating, or allowing the creation of, the sound is subject to the
requirements of that section. The following special sound sources are also
subject to the following additional standards, the failure to comply with which
constitute separate violations of this chapter.
   (A)   Audio equipment. No person shall operate any audio equipment, whether
portable or not, between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. such that the
sound generated:
      (1)   Creates a noise disturbance;
      (2)   Is plainly audible to the human ear at a distance greater than 100
feet from the equipment; or,
      (3)   Is plainly audible to the human ear inside an inhabited dwelling
other than a dwelling in which the equipment may be located.
   (B)   No person shall operate any audio equipment, whether portable or not,
from 7:00 a.m. to 10:00 p.m., such that the sound generated:
      (1)   Creates a noise disturbance; or,
      (2)   Is plainly audible to the human ear at a distance greater than 100
feet from the equipment.
   (C)   Sound-amplifying equipment and live music. No person shall install,
use or operate sound-amplifying equipment, or perform, or allow to be
performed, live music unless such activities comply with the following
requirements.
      (1)   Sound-amplifying equipment or live music is prohibited between the
hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. the following day.
      (2)   Sound emanating from sound- amplifying equipment or live music from
7:00 a.m. to 10:00 p.m. the same day shall not create a noise disturbance or be
plainly audible to the human ear at a distance greater than 200 feet from the
equipment or music.
(Ord. 872, § 2 (part), 2011)
ARTICLE VI. EXCEPTIONS AND EXEMPTIONS
§ 19.39.050 EMERGENCY EXCEPTION.
   The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to the emission of sound for
the purpose of alerting persons to the existence of an emergency, or to the
emission of sound in the performance of emergency work.
(Ord. 872, § 2 (part), 2011)
§ 19.39.051 EXEMPTIONS.
   The following activities shall be exempt from the provisions of this
chapter:
   (A)   Agricultural uses, provided such operations are carried out in a
manner consistent with accepted industry standards;
   (B)   Activities conducted on parks, public playgrounds and school grounds,
provided such parks, playgrounds and school grounds are owned and operated by a
public entity or private school;
   (C)   Noise sources associated with a lawful commercial or industrial
activity caused by mechanical devices or equipment, including air conditioning
or refrigeration systems;
   (D)   Outdoor gatherings, public dances, shows and sporting and
entertainment events, provided said events are conducted in accordance with the
terms and conditions of a conditional use permit issued by the county, that has
a specific noise limitation expressed in dBA attached to it;
   (E)   Refuse collection vehicles;
   (F)   Safety signals, warning devices, emergency vehicle sirens;
   (G)   School bands, school athletic and school entertainment events;
   (H)   Temporary construction, demolition or maintenance of structures
between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 7:00 p.m., except Sundays and federal
holidays;
   (I)   The discharge of firearms consistent with all state laws;
   (J)   The use of off-highway vehicles for the use of an agricultural
operation;
   (K)   Yard maintenance equipment operated between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and
7:00 p.m.;
   (L)   Unamplified human voice;
   (M)   Interstate railroad locomotive and cars;
   (N)   Facilities owned or operated by or for a governmental agency;
   (O)   Capital improvement projects of a governmental agency;
   (P)   The maintenance or repair of public properties;
   (Q)   Public safety personnel in the course of executing their official
duties, including, but not limited to, sworn peace officers, emergency
personnel and public utility personnel;
   (R)   Other uses as set forth by a resolution of the Board of Supervisors or
as conditions of approval by the Planning Commission or Board of Supervisors;
   (S)   Any use approved by the County of San Benito prior to the effective
date of this chapter if the use is subject to a specific noise restriction
imposed by the county; and
   (T)   Any use for which an exemption is granted by the Planning Director,
Planning Commission or the Board of Supervisors pursuant to Article VII of this
chapter.
(Ord. 872, § 2 (part), 2011)
§ 19.39.052 CONDITIONAL USE PERMITS.
   To the extent that the requirements of this chapter conflict with any
specific noise limits set forth in a conditional use permit, or conditions of
approval thereto, the conditional use permit and its conditions of approval
shall control. Notwithstanding the above, if a conditional use permit, or
amendment thereto, is approved after the effective date of this chapter, the
conditional use permit may determine that a higher maximum sound level may
apply to the specific use being approved.
(Ord. 872, § 2 (part), 2011)
ARTICLE VII. ADDITIONAL EXEMPTION PROCEDURE
§ 19.39.060 ADDITIONAL EXEMPTION PROCEDURE.
   In cases in which a conditional use permit is not required, the Planning
Director is authorized to grant an exemption from any provisions of this
chapter providing the following:
   (A)   Any person planning the use of a sound-producing device that may
violate any provisions of this chapter may apply for an exemption from such
provisions.
   (B)   Application and fees.  The application shall be submitted at least 60-
days before the event will occur and shall include the following:
      (1)   The name, address and telephone number of the person requesting the
exemption and the signature of an authorized representative;
      (2)   A processing fee in an amount to be established by the Board of
Supervisors;
      (3)   The provision of this chapter from which an exemption is sought;
      (4)   The period of time for which the exemption is to apply;
      (5)   The nature of the noise, the reason the noise will be created, the
location where the noise will be created, and the duration and time of the
noise; and
      (6)   The extent and scope of measures that the applicant has taken or
will take to reduce or diminish the disturbance.
      (7)   Information which demonstrates that bringing the source of sound or
activity for which the exemption is sought into compliance with this chapter
would constitute an unreasonable hardship on the applicant, on the community,
or on other persons.
   (C)   Public notice.  The Planning Director will ensure that a notice is
mailed to the owners of all property within 300 feet on the property affected
by the application at their last-known addresses as are shown in the most
recent records of the County Assessor. The notice must be mailed at least 15
days prior to date the Planning Director will decide upon the exemption. A
similar notice must be mailed to the applicant. Any person who claims to be
adversely affected by allowance of the exemption may file a statement with the
Planning Director containing any information to support his/her claim. If the
Planning Director finds that a sufficient controversy exists regarding an
application, a public hearing may be held.
   (D)   Conditions.  In approving an exemption permit, the Planning Director
may include the conditions that are reasonable and necessary under the
circumstances to protect the public health, safety and welfare from adverse
effects caused by the noise emanating there from and may limit the term of the
permit.
   (E)   Findings and decision.  The Planning Director, on the basis of the
evidence submitted in the application, may grant an exemption permit with any
conditions deemed necessary and reasonable. The Planning Director in
determining whether to grant or deny the exemption shall balance the hardship
to the applicant, the community, and other persons of not granting the
exemption against the adverse impact on the health and welfare of persons
affected, the adverse impact on the property affected, and/or any other adverse
impacts of granting the exemption. Applicants for an exemption and persons
contesting an exemption may be required to submit any information that the
Planning Director may reasonably require.
   (F)   In granting or denying an application, the Planning Director shall
place on public file a copy of the decision and the reasons for denying or
granting the exemption.
   (G)   Notice of approval.  Upon the grant of an application for an exemption
permit, the Planning Director will prepare and deliver to the applicant a
formal statement that states the facts and conditions of the grant. No decision
is final regarding an application for an exemption permit until the appeal
deadline has elapsed. The approval notice shall contain all necessary
conditions, including a time limit on the permitted activity if applicable. An
exemption shall not be effective until all conditions are agreed to by the
applicant. Non-compliance with any condition of the exemption shall terminate
it and subject the person holding it to those provisions of this chapter
regulating the source of sound or activity for which the exemption was granted.
   (H)   Appeals to Board of Supervisors. Any person dissatisfied with the
decision of the Planning Director may file an appeal with the Planning
Commission within five calendar days after the decision. The Director will
transmit to the Planning Commission all maps, records, papers and files that
constitute the record in the action from which the appeal was taken. At the
time of the filing of the appeal, the appellant must pay a filing fee in an
amount established by the Board of Supervisors.
   (I)   The Planning Commission shall, within 30 days of the filing of the
appeal, set the time and place for the appeal to be heard by the Planning
Commission and shall ensure that notice of the hearing is given at least ten
days before the date of the hearing.
   (J)   The Planning Commission shall hear the matter de novo and may approve,
disapprove or conditionally approve the application. The decision of the
Planning Commission may be appealed to the Board of Supervisors by written
notice filed in duplicate with the County Clerk within ten days from the date
of the decision. The Board of Supervisors shall hear the matter de novo. In
determining whether to grant or deny the exception, the Planning Commission
and/or the Board of Supervisors shall balance the hardship to the applicant,
the community, and other persons of not granting the exemption against the
adverse impact on the health and welfare of persons affected, the adverse
impact on the property affected, and or any other adverse impacts of granting
the exemption.
   (K)   Application for extension of time limits specified in an exception or
for a modification of other substantial conditions shall be treated like an
application for an exception.
(Ord. 872, § 2 (part), 2011)
ARTICLE VIII. ENFORCEMENT AND COSTS
§ 19.39.070 ADMINISTRATION; ENFORCING OFFICER.
   The San Benito County Sheriff and Code Enforcement Officer shall have the
primary responsibility for enforcing this chapter. Violations may be prosecuted
as described in
Chapter 1.03, but nothing in this chapter shall prevent the sheriff or code
enforcement from engaging in efforts to obtain voluntary compliance by means of
warnings, notices, or educational programs or by pursuing any other action
authorized by law to achieve abatement of the noise.
(Ord. 872, § 2 (part), 2011)
§ 19.39.071 INSPECTIONS.
   Upon presentation of proper credentials, the Sheriffs Department or Code
Enforcement Officer may enter and inspect any property or place, and inspect
any report or records at any reasonable time when granted permission by the
owner, or by some other person with apparent authority under applicable
California law to act for the owner. When permission is refused or cannot be
obtained, a search warrant may be obtained from a court of competent
jurisdiction upon showing of probable cause to believe that a violation of this
chapter may exist. Such inspection may include performance of any necessary
measurements.
(Ord. 872, § 2 (part), 2011)
§ 19.39.072 RECORDS; MEASUREMENTS BY OWNER/OPERATOR.
   After approval by the Board of Supervisors, and upon presentation of proper
credentials, the Sheriffs Department or Code Enforcement Officer may:
   (A)   Require the owner or operator of any commercial or industrial activity
to establish and maintain records and make such reports at the Sheriffs
Department or Code Enforcement Officer may reasonably prescribe; and/or
   (B)   Require the owner or operator of any commercial or industrial activity
to measure the sound levels of, or the vibration from any source in accordance
with the methods and procedures and at such locations and times as may
reasonably be prescribed and to furnish reports of the results of such
measurements to the county. The county may require the measurements to be
conducted in the presence of its enforcement officials.
(Ord. 872, § 2 (part), 2011)
§ 19.39.073 GENERAL SOUND LEVEL MEASUREMENT METHODOLOGY.
   Any noise measurement made pursuant to the provisions of this chapter shall
be performed using a sound level meter as defined by this chapter. Immediately
before a measurement is made, the sound level meter shall be calibrated
utilizing an acoustical calibrator meeting the standards of the American
National Standards Institute. Following a sound level measurement, the
calibration of the sound level meter shall be re-verified. Sound level meters
and calibration equipment shall be certified annually. Sound level measurements
may be made anywhere within the boundaries of an occupied property. The actual
location of a sound level measurement shall be at the discretion of the
enforcement officials identified in this chapter.
(Ord. 872, § 2 (part), 2011)
§ 19.39.074 DUTY TO COOPERATE.
   No person may refuse to cooperate with, or obstruct, the enforcement
officials identified in this chapter when they are engaged in the process of
enforcing the provisions of this chapter. This duty to cooperate may require a
person to extinguish a sound source so that it can be determined whether sound
emanating from the source violates the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 872, § 2 (part), 2011)
§ 19.39.075 VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES.
   (A)   Upon the receipt of a valid complaint as defined below, or upon direct
observation of a potential violation by the Sheriff, the Code Enforcement
Officer or their duly authorized representatives, the San Benito County Sheriff
or Code Enforcement Officer, or their duly authorized representatives may
investigate and assess whether the alleged noise levels exceed the noise
standards set forth in this chapter.
   (B)   A valid complaint must be signed by at least two complainants who
represent at least two separate properties within 500 yards of the sound-
producing property. Addresses of the complainants must be provided and include
the following:
      (1)   Identify and provide an address for the person who committed the
excessive noise disturbance;
      (2)   State the date that the excessive noise disturbance occurred and
identify the starting time and ending time of the disturbance;
      (3)   Identify where the disturbance occurred and describe that location;
      (4)   Identify the sound-producing device used during the disturbance;
      (5)   Identify one of the complainants as a contact person within the
complaint;
      (6)   Describe the excessive noise disturbance and explain why it was
unreasonably disturbing; and,
      (7)   State whether a deputy or enforcement officer visited the sound-
producing property while the disturbance was occurring. If this did not occur,
the complaint must include a description of the complainant's efforts to
contact enforcement authorities while the disturbance was occurring. The
complainant must have made a good faith effort to contact enforcement
authorities while the disturbance was occurring or the excessive noise
disturbance complaint will be deemed insufficient.
   (C)   If such officers have reason to believe that any provision(s) of this
chapter has been violated, they may cause written notice to be served upon the
alleged violator. Such notice shall specify the provision(s) of this chapter
alleged to have been violated and the facts alleged to constitute a violation,
including dBA readings noted, if applicable, and the time and place of their
detection, and may include an order of corrective action be taken within a
specified time.
   (D)   If corrective action is not taken within such specified time or any
extension thereof approved by the Code Enforcement Officer, upon conviction,
the violation shall constitute an infraction. Each day such violation is
committed or permitted to continue shall constitute a separate offense and
shall be punishable as such.
   (E)   Any subsequent violation of this chapter within 12 months from a
conviction for violating any provisions of this chapter and/or the forfeiting
of bail in connection with a prior violation of this chapter is a misdemeanor.
   (F)   Provisions of this chapter are to be construed as an added remedy of
abatement of the pubic nuisance declared and not in conflict or derogation of
any other action, proceedings or remedies that may be abated in accordance with
the provisions of
Chapter 1.03 (Code Enforcement Ordinance) of Title 1 (General Provisions; Code
Enforcement) of the San Benito County Code.
(Ord. 872, § 2 (part), 2011)
§ 19.39.076 LIABILITY FOR COSTS.
   In any enforcement action brought pursuant to
Chapter 1.03 (Code Enforcement Ordinance) of Title 1 (General Provisions; Code
Enforcement) of the San Benito County Code, whether by administrative
proceedings, judicial proceedings, or summary abatement, each person who
causes, permits, suffers or maintains a violation of this chapter, shall be
liable for all costs incurred by the county, including, but not limited to,
administrative costs, and any and all costs incurred to undertake, or to cause
or compel any responsible part to undertake, any abatement action in compliance
with the requirements of
Chapter 1.03 (Code Enforcement Ordinance) of Title 1 (General Provisions; Code
Enforcement) of the San Benito County Code, whether those costs are incurred
prior to, during, or following enactment of this chapter. The procedures set
forth in §
1.03.005(E) through (H) of the San Benito County Code shall apply to the
recovery of costs of abatement, pursuant to §
1.03.005.
(Ord. 872, § 2 (part), 2011)
§ 19.39.077 REMEDIES CUMULATIVE.
   All remedies provided for herein are cumulative and not exclusive, and are
in addition to any other remedy or penalty provided by law.
(Ord. 872, § 2 (part), 2011)
§ 19.39.078 NO DUTY TO ENFORCE.
   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed as imposing on the enforcing
officer or the county any duty to issue a notice to abate a noise nuisance or
any other violation of this chapter, nor to take any other action with regard
to any noise nuisance or any other violation of the chapter, and neither the
enforcing officer nor the county shall be held liable for failure to issue an
order to abate a noise nuisance or any other violation of this chapter, nor for
failure to take any other action with regard to any noise nuisance or any other
violation of this chapter.
(Ord. 872, § 2 (part), 2011)
CHAPTER 19.41: INDEMNIFICATION
Section
   
19.41.001   Purpose
   
19.41.002   Definitions
   
19.41.003   Indemnification and defense requirements
§ 19.41.001 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to provide greater certainty to the county
and to applicants for land use or development permits, licenses,
authorizations, entitlements or other approvals concerning how legal challenges
shall be addressed. As applicants are the parties primarily interested in and
benefitting from approvals sought from the county, and recognizing that legal
challenges may result in significant expenses even in the event of meritless
actions, this chapter is intended to require applicants to assume
responsibility for any such challenges.
(Ord. 876, § 1 (part), 2011)
§ 19.41.002 DEFINITIONS.
   The following words, phrases and terms as used in this chapter shall have
the following meanings:
   APPLICANT. Any person, firm, corporation, company, partnership, association,
society, trust, joint venture, any other type of business entity, any other
type of organization, or any governmental entity that files an application with
the county for a ministerial approval, discretionary approval, or for a
tentative map, vesting tentative map, parcel map, final map, or any
modification thereto.
   APPROVAL(S). Shall be defined to include both DISCRETIONARY APPROVALS and
MINISTERIAL APPROVALS.
   COUNTY. The County of San Benito, the San Benito County Board of
Supervisors, the Planning Commission for the County of San Benito, the Planning
Department, the Public Works Department, and all advisory agencies, appeals
boards, officers, agents and employees of San Benito County.
   DISCRETIONARY APPROVALS. Any discretionary land use or development permit,
license, authorization, entitlement or other approval from the county, and
shall include, but not be limited to, the following: zone change, lot line
adjustment, certificate of compliance, conditional use permit, conditional use
permit modification, conditional use permit extension, C-district review, M-
district review, administrative C-district review, administrative M-district
review, variance, variance modification, reclamation plan, scenic corridor
review, non-conforming building site review, special plan review, minor use
permits, temporary mobile home renewal and temporary use permits, certain
grading permits, or any other land use entitlement(s) requiring the county's
exercise of judgment in the decision of whether or not to grant the approval
requested and/or whether or not to impose conditions of approval. DISCRETIONARY
APPROVALS shall also include any action or decision on any accompanying
California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) document or determination
pertaining to any such approval. DISCRETIONARY APPROVALS shall not be defined
to include tentative maps, vesting tentative maps, parcel maps, final maps, or
the modification to such maps.
   MINISTERIAL APPROVALS. Any approval in which the approval is based on
carrying out the mandates of statutes, code, and other legal authority without
exercise of individual discretion. This chapter shall only apply to ministerial
approvals by the staff in the departments of Public Works, Planning, and
Environmental Health. MINISTERIAL APPROVALS may include, depending on the
circumstances, but are not limited to: building permits, transportation
permits, right-of-way encroachment permits, well permits, grading permits,
septic system permits, water system permits, pool permits, permits for
restaurants and other food establishments, and permits for hazardous
substances.
(Ord. 876, § 1 (part), 2011)
§ 19.41.003 INDEMNIFICATION AND DEFENSE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Except where otherwise expressly prohibited by state or federal law,
the county shall require, as a prerequisite for approval or as part of the
application process, an applicant for any approval(s) to agree in writing to
defend, indemnify, and hold harmless the county and its officers, agents,
employees, boards and commissions from any claim, action, litigation, or
proceeding brought by any person or entity other than the applicant ("third
party") against the county or its officers, agents, employees, boards or
commissions that arises from or is in any way related to an approval(s),
including, but not limited to claims, actions, litigation, or proceedings to
attack, set aside, void, or annul an approval(s).
   (B)   Additionally, a condition of approval shall be imposed upon all
approval(s) requiring the applicant to defend, indemnify, and hold harmless the
county and its officers, agents, employees, boards and commissions from any
claim, action, litigation, or proceeding brought by any person or entity other
than the applicant ("third party") against the county or its officers, agents,
employees, boards or commissions that arises from or is in any way related to
an approval(s), including, but not limited to claims, actions, litigation, or
proceedings to attack, set aside, void, or annul an approval(s).
   (C)   If any third party claim, action, or proceeding is filed, the county
will promptly notify the applicant of the claim, action, or proceeding and will
cooperate fully in the defense. If determined appropriate by the County Board
of Supervisors, the county may also participate in the defense of any claim,
action, or proceeding, with the applicant paying the reasonable cost of the
county's defense. Such costs shall include the county's reasonable attorney's
fees and other reasonably related defense expenses including county staff time.
The indemnification required by divisions (A) and (B) of this section shall
include damages awarded against the county, costs of suit, attorneys' fees, and
other costs and expenses incurred in connection with any such claim, action,
litigation, or proceeding.
   (D)   Any indemnification agreement entered into pursuant to division (A) of
this section, above, may be in a standard format approved by county counsel and
executed by a department head or the County Administrative Officer, or their
authorized designees, on behalf of the county. In the alternative, an
indemnification agreement may be negotiated on a case-by-case basis and
approved by the Board of Supervisors.
   (E)   Applicants for general plan and specific plans amendment applications
shall also be subject to §
19.29.006(B).
   (F)   All tentative maps, vesting tentative maps, parcel maps, final maps,
and final or parcel map modification amendments are subject to Cal. Gov't Code
§ 66474.9 and therefore, the county may require as a condition for an
application or approval, that the applicant defend, indemnify, and hold
harmless the county from any claim, action, or proceeding against the county to
attack, set aside, void, or annul, an approval of the county, the Planning
Commission, or the Board of Supervisors concerning a subdivision, which action
is brought within the time period provided for in Cal. Gov't Code § 66499.37.
Any condition imposed shall require the county to promptly notify the applicant
of any claim, action, or proceeding and that the county cooperate fully in the
defense. The county may participate in the defense of any claim, action, or
proceeding, if the county elects to bear its own attorney's fees and costs and
defends the action in good faith. The applicant will not be required to pay or
perform any settlement unless the applicant agrees to the settlement.
   (G)   The obligations specified in this chapter shall be binding upon on the
successors in interest of the applicant.
   (H)   The Board of Supervisors may waive, on a case-by-case basis, any
indemnification requirement of this chapter upon a request of the applicant.
(Ord. 876, § 1 (part), 2011)
CHAPTER 19.42: [RESERVED]
CHAPTER 19.43: CANNABIS BUSINESS LAND USE REGULATIONS
Section
   
19.43.010   Purpose, intent, and applicability
   
19.43.020   Definitions
   
19.43.030   Supplemental findings for cannabis business land uses
   
19.43.040   Permit requirements for all cannabis businesses
   
19.43.050   Supplemental application requirements for certain cannabis
businesses
   
19.43.060   Application fees
   
19.43.070   General development standards applicable to all cannabis
businesses; restrictions
   
19.43.071   [RESERVED]
   
19.43.080   Operating requirements applicable to all cannabis businesses
   
19.43.090   Supplemental operating requirements for cultivators
   
19.43.100   Supplemental operating requirements for distributors
   
19.43.110   Supplemental operating requirements for manufacturing sites
   
19.43.120   Supplemental operating requirements for testing laboratories
   
19.43.130   Supplemental operating requirements for retail sites
   
19.43.140   Supplemental operating requirements for microbusiness
   
19.43.150   Non-compliance with operational requirements
   
19.43.160   Inspection and enforcement
§ 19.43.010 PURPOSE, INTENT, AND APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   Purpose. This chapter establishes cannabis business standards that are
designed to protect the public health, safety, and welfare; enact strong and
effective regulatory and enforcement controls as a result of and in compliance
with state law; protect neighborhood character; and minimize potential for
negative impacts on people, communities, and the environment; by establishing
minimum land use requirements for cannabis businesses engaging in commercial
cannabis activity in the county.
   (B)   Intent. Commercial cannabis activities are already highly regulated by
both the state and federal governments, and their regulation of commercial
cannabis activities is subject to rapid change. Therefore, the Board of
Supervisors intends to reserve all of its statutory planning and zoning
authority concerning cannabis businesses and commercial cannabis activities.
This chapter recognizes that, due to the unique federal and state constraints
on commercial cannabis activity, as well as the potential environmental and
social impacts associated with commercial cannabis activity, certain land use
controls pertaining to cannabis businesses are necessary. Cannabis businesses
with facilities within the county shall be subject to the zoning and land use
regulations of the zoning district in which such cannabis business facility is
established and will operate as set forth in Title 25 of this code, and as
otherwise established by the county.
   (C)   Nothing in this chapter is intended, nor shall it be construed, to
allow persons to engage in conduct that endangers others or causes a public
nuisance.
   (D)   Nothing in this chapter is intended, nor shall it be construed, to
exempt the commercial cultivation of cannabis from compliance with all other
applicable county zoning and land use regulations, as well as other applicable
provisions of this code, state and local commercial cannabis business
permitting requirements, or compliance with any applicable state laws.
   (E)   All persons operating facilities and conducting commercial cannabis
activities, as defined in this chapter, are subject to possible federal
prosecution, regardless of state licensure or local permitting. Any land use or
other entitlement from the county does not assert or provide any federal
protections. The provisions of this chapter shall not be construed to protect
any person from prosecution pursuant to any laws that may prohibit the
cultivation, sale, distribution, possession, use of, and/or any other activity
associated with controlled substances, or to authorize conduct that is unlawful
under state or federal law. Moreover, cultivation, sale, possession,
distribution, and use of cannabis remain violations of federal law as of the
date of adoption of this chapter and this chapter is not intended to, and does
not authorize, conduct or acts that violate federal law, and does not protect
any person from arrest or prosecution under those federal laws. Persons engaged
in commercial cannabis activities assume any and all risk and any and all
liability that may arise or result under state and federal laws from the
cultivation, sale, possession, distribution, use of cannabis, and/or any other
commercial cannabis activity.
   (F)   Applicability. The standards of this chapter shall apply to all
cannabis businesses required to obtain the applicable land use permit
identified in Title 25, and which engage in commercial cannabis activity as
defined in §
19.43.020 and regulated pursuant to
Chapters 7.02 and
7.04.
   (G)   Certain cannabis businesses shall only be permitted in the AP, AR, C-
1, C-2, BP, M-1, M-2, and AS zoning districts, depending on the type of
commercial cannabis activity in which it is engaged, as set forth in, and in
compliance with, Title 25.
(Ord. 975, § 1, 2018; Ord. 1036, § 10, 2021; Ord. 1074, § 3 (part), 2024)
§ 19.43.020 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the definitions set forth in §
7.02.020 of this code are hereby incorporated by reference.
   CANNABIS BUSINESS LAND USE. The type of cannabis business and corresponding
commercial cannabis activity in which the cannabis business is engaged on real
property in the county.
(Ord. 975, § 1, 2018; Ord. 1074, § 3 (part), 2024)
§ 19.43.030 SUPPLEMENTAL FINDINGS FOR CANNABIS BUSINESS LAND USES.
   The Planning Commission shall make supplemental conditional use permit
findings in writing prior to approval of any cannabis business land use that
requires a conditional use permit. All cannabis business land use proposals
shall demonstrate compliance with §
19.43.070(A)(4).
(Ord. 975, § 1, 2018; Ord. 1074, § 3 (part), 2024)
§ 19.43.040 PERMIT REQUIREMENTS FOR CERTAIN CANNABIS BUSINESSES.
   (A)   Permit required. Commercial cannabis activities may only occur in
compliance with the approval of the applicable permit identified in division
(B) of this section and in Title 25. The required local permit and state
license shall be required prior to the commencement of any commercial cannabis
activity. All conditions of the local permit for the cannabis business shall be
satisfied prior to the commencement of the commercial cannabis activity or as
otherwise specified in the conditions of the permit.
   (B)   The following table identifies the cannabis business land uses allowed
by zone and the type of permit required to establish each use pursuant to Title
25. Designation of zoning districts in this section does not give any owner,
occupant, or lessor of real property any rights to operate, or provide that any
permit applied for under Title 25 shall be granted.
 
     Permitted Use, Land Use Permit Required, pending limits in
     19.43.090(M),
     19.43.100(J),
     19.43.110(V),
P    19.43.120(I),
     19.43.130(E),
     19.43.140, 25.02-A,
     25.03, and
     25.04
MCUP Minor Use Permit Required
CUP  Conditional Use Permit Required
---- Use Not Allowed
N/A  Not Applicable
 
  PERMIT REQUIRED BY ZONE
                                     Commercial   Business Park, Light
  Agricultural Rural     Residential Thoroughfare Industrial, Heavy    Airport
  Districts    Districts Districts   and          Industrial, and      Safety
                                     Neighborhood Resources Recovery   District
                                     Commercial   Park
  AR AP        R RT RR   R1 RM       C-1 C-2      BP M-1 M-2 RRP       AS
                         PERMIT REQUIRED BY ZONE
                                                                     Business Park,
                                                          Commercial Light
                         Agricultural Rural     ResidentiaThoroughfarIndustrial,     Airport
                         Districts    Districts Districts and        Heavy           Safety
                                                          NeighborhooIndustrial, and District
                                                          Commercial Resources
                                                                     Recovery Park
                         AR  AP       R  RT RR  R1 RM     C- C-2     BP  M-1 M-2 RRP AS
                                                          1
              Specialty
              Cottage,
Cultivation   Specialty,
(Includes     Small,                  -- -- --- --        --                     ---
Indoor,       Medium,    P   P        -- -- -   -- ----   -- ----    P   P   P   -   CUP
Outdoor, and  Large,
Mixed-Light)  Nursery,
              and
              Processor
Distribution  11, 13     P   P        -- -- --- -- ----   -- ----    P   P   P   --- CUP
                                      -- -- -   --        --                     --
Manufacturing 6, 7, N,   CUP CUP      -- -- --- -- ----   -- ----    P   P   P   --- CUP (non-
              P, S                    -- -- -   --        --                     -   volatile)
Testing       8          CUP CUP      -- -- --- -- ----   -- ----    P   P   P   --- ----
                                      -- -- -   --        --                     -
Retail
(storefront   9, 10      P   P        N/ N/ N/A N/ N/A    P  P       P   P   P   N/A CUP
and non-                              A  A      A
storefront)
Microbusiness 12         CUP CUP      -- -- --- -- ----   -- ----    CUP CUP CUP --- ----
                                      -- -- -   --        --                     -
 
   (C)   Notice and public hearing. Entitlements for cannabis business uses
and/or development shall be subject to the applicable noticing requirements for
conditional use permits set forth in
Chapters 25.01 and
25.02, except that a mailed notice regarding a pending action or hearing
regarding a cannabis business entitlement shall be provided to all owners of
property located within a 1,000-foot radius of the exterior boundaries of the
subject parcel.
   (D)   Indemnification. The applicant shall enter into an indemnification
agreement with the county in accordance with
Chapter 19.41.
(Ord. 975, § 1, 2018; Ord. 984, § 2, 2019; Ord. 1032, § 6, 2021; Ord. 1036, §
11, 2021; Ord. 1074, § 3 (part), 2024)
§ 19.43.050 SUPPLEMENTAL APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS FOR CERTAIN CANNABIS
BUSINESSES.
   (A)   Cultivation site. In reviewing an application submitted under Title 25
and order Title 7
Chapter 7.02 to operate a cultivation-type cannabis business facility, the
applicant shall provide the following additional information as requested. The
plans shall be in accordance with best practices regulations as established by
resolution:
      (1)   A pest management plan;
      (2)   A waste management plan;
      (3)   A hazardous materials business plan;
      (4)   Preservation of agricultural lands, including preservation of prime
agricultural lands in compliance with the general plan;
      (5)   A water management plan, including the proposed water supply,
proposed conservation measures. Such plan may include an estimate of water
demand for the cultivation site prepared by a licensed professional engineer or
other expert on water demand;
      (6)   An energy management plan, including proposed energy conservation
measures;
      (7)   An air quality management plan for controlling odor;
      (8)   A security plan; and
      (9)   No cannabis cultivation site shall be permitted within the
exclusion zone specified in §
7.04.003(C) applicable to industrial hemp.
   (B)   Distributor. In reviewing the application submitted under Title 25 and
Title 7
Chapter 7.02 to operate a distribution-type cannabis business facility, the
applicant shall provide the following additional information as requested:
      (1)   A written statement detailing how, and from where, cannabis will be
received, how any storage or transportation operations will be secured to
prevent theft and trespass, and to whom the cannabis will be taken;
      (2)   A quality control inspection and requirements plan;
      (3)   Storage and handling plans;
      (4)   Proof of ownership or a valid lease for any and all commercial
vehicles that will be used to transport cannabis;
      (5)   Transportation processes including the year, make, model, license
plate number, and numerical vehicle identification number (VIN) for any and all
commercial vehicles that will be used to transport cannabis; and
      (6)   Proof of insurance in the amount of $1,000,000 for any and all
commercial vehicles being used to transport cannabis.
   (C)   Manufacturing site.
      (1)   Waste management plan;
      (2)   A hazardous materials business plan;
      (3)   A quality control inspection and requirements plan;
      (5)   Storage and handling plans;
      (6)   A written statement detailing the types of activities that will be
conducted on the proposed premises (i.e., extraction, infusion, packaging, or
labeling);
      (7)   A written statement detailing the types of products that will be
manufactured, packaged, or labeled on the premises;
      (8)   A copy of the signed closed-loop system certification, if
applicable; and
      (9)   Transportation processes including the year, make, model, license
plate number, and numerical Vehicle Identification Number (VIN) for any and all
commercial vehicles that will be used to transport cannabis; Security
procedures.
   (D)   Testing laboratory.
      (1)   Proof of or acknowledgement to obtain ISO/IEC 17025 accreditation
certificate per California Business Regulations § 15701 [Cal. Code of
Regulations Title 4];
      (2)   Method validation reports for specific testing methods;
      (3)   A written statement detailing the standard operating procedures;
      (4)   A quality control inspection and requirements plan.
      (5)   A waste management plan; and
      (6)   A security plan.
   (E)   Retail. Applicant shall provide the following information:
      (1)   A security plan;
      (2)   Lighting plan;
      (3)   Cannabis storage and handling plan;
      (4)   Proof of property owner concurrence;
      (5)   Delivery vehicle information including the year, make, model,
license plate number, and numerical vehicle identification number (VIN) for any
and all commercial vehicles that will be used to transport cannabis.
   (F)   Microbusiness.
      (1)   If you are applying for a microbusiness license, submit the
supplemental application requirements noted in this section for each eligible
activity that will be part of your microbusiness permit. Eligible microbusiness
activities are provided in §
19.43.140.
(Ord. 975, § 1, 2018; Ord. 984, § 3, 2019; Ord. 1032, § 7, 2021; Ord. 1036, §
12, 2021; Ord. 1074, § 3 (part), 2024)
§ 19.43.060 APPLICATION FEES.
   The permit application and processing fee required under Title 25 is non-
refundable, and is due and payable in full at the time any permit application
is submitted. This fee covers the costs of accepting and processing the
application, including reviewing and investigating the completeness and
accuracy of the information contained therein, and determining eligibility for
issuance of a permit under Title 25.
(Ord. 975, § 1, 2018; Ord. 1074, § 3 (part), 2024)
§ 19.43.070 GENERAL DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS APPLICABLE TO ALL CANNABIS
BUSINESSES; RESTRICTIONS.
   No permit created under
Chapter 7.02 or Title 25 may be issued for any cannabis business on any
premises, unless all the following requirements are met.
   (A)   Location and design of cannabis businesses. Cannabis businesses
proposing to engage in commercial cannabis activity are subject to the
following zoning and locational requirements.
      (1)   Location. Cannabis businesses engaging in cultivation,
distribution, manufacturing, microbusinesses, and/or testing laboratories must
be properly located within zones that allow such uses in accordance with Title
25 and must meet all of the requirements for development in these zones.
      (2)   Setbacks. Except as provided in a variance granted in accordance
with division (A)(3) of this section, cannabis businesses must also meet all of
the following setback requirements:
         (a)   Thirty feet from any boundary line of the parcel. This setback
requirement shall not apply to any permitted cannabis business facility located
in an industrial zone;
         (b)   It shall be no closer than 600 feet from any structure or
facility containing a sensitive use that is in existence at the time the
application for the applicable permit identified in §
19.43.040(B) and Title 25 is submitted, unless the state licensing authority or
the county specifies a different radius. The distance measured shall be the
horizontal distance measured in a straight line from the premises of the
structure or facility containing the sensitive use to the premises of the
structure or facility which the cannabis business is intended to be located.
This provision shall only apply to sensitive uses that exist at the time of
application. Any sensitive use permitted within 600 feet of an existing
licensed cannabis facility shall not affect the continued operation of the
cannabis facility; and
         (c)   All cultivation-type cannabis businesses shall, except as
provided in a variance granted in accordance with §
19.43.070(A)(3), be no closer than 300 feet from any off-parcel permitted
residence in any zone that is in existence at the time the application for the
applicable permit identified in §
19.43.040(B) and Title 25 is submitted. The distance between the cannabis
business and the off-parcel residence shall be measured from the premises of
the residential structure to the premises of the structure or facility seeking
the applicable permit identified in §
19.43.040(B) and Title 25. This setback requirement shall not apply to any
permitted cannabis business facility located in an industrial zone.
      (3)   At the time of application, the applicant may submit a written
application for an exception to the Resources Management Agency for
consideration with the applicable permit application under Title 25 for
consideration of modification to any provision of division (A)(2) of this
section. Exception requests shall be referred to the Planning Commission to
determine whether or not to grant an exception, subject to a finding that
granting the exception will not significantly affect the public health and
safety based on the particular circumstances present at the location and nature
of the cannabis activity and the sensitive use, subject to all application
forms and fees being received by the Resources Management Agency. The Planning
Commission may decide whether the exception should be granted or denied, as
well as whether to impose certain reasonable conditions upon any exception
granted. If granted, the exception shall remain valid for the time period
specified by the Planning Commission.
      (4)   Each proposed cannabis business shall:
         (a)   Conform to the county’s general plan goals and policies, any
applicable specific plans, master plans, and design requirements;
         (b)   Be located within an appropriately zoned district for the
particular cannabis business land use;
         (c)   Comply with all applicable zoning and related development
standards, including general development standards for cannabis business land
use, the applicable supplemental requirements for cannabis business land use,
and the operational standards for cannabis business land use;
         (d)   Be constructed in a manner that minimizes odors to surrounding
uses, and promotes quality design and construction, and consistency with the
surrounding properties;
         (e)   Be adequate in size and shape to accommodate the yards, walls,
fences, parking and loading facilities, landscaping, and all items required for
the development;
         (f)   Be served by highways adequate in width and improved as
necessary to carry the kind and quantity of traffic such use will generate;
         (g)   Be provided with adequate electricity, sewerage, disposal,
water, fire protection, and storm drainage facilities for the intended purpose;
         (h)   Have appropriate security measures planned for and incorporated
into design and operations; and
         (i)   Have an appropriate record keeping and reporting program in
place to assure compliance with operational standards.
   (B)   Building permits and inspection. Submit to a mandatory building
inspection and obtain all required permits and approvals which would otherwise
be required for any business of the same size and intensity operating in that
zone. This includes, but is not limited to, obtaining any required building
permit(s), County Fire approvals, Health Department approvals, and other zoning
and land use permit(s) and approvals.
   (C)   Security measures. An applicant shall implement sufficient security
measures to deter and prevent the unauthorized entrance into areas containing
cannabis goods, and to deter and prevent the theft of cannabis goods at the
cannabis business site. Applicable security requirements for cannabis
activities conducted indoors or outdoors shall be determined by the
Administrative Officer or his/her designee(s), these security measures may
include, but shall not be limited to, any of the following:
      (1)   Alarm system (perimeter, fire, and panic buttons);
      (2)   Remote monitoring of alarm systems by licensed security
professionals;
      (3)   Perimeter lighting systems (including motion sensors) for after-
hours security;
      (4)   Perimeter security fencing;
      (5)   Preventing individuals from remaining on the premises of the
cannabis business if they are not engaging in an activity directly related to
the permitted operations of the cannabis business;
      (6)   Establishing limited access areas accessible only to authorized
cannabis business personnel;
      (7)   Except for live cannabis plants which are being cultivated at a
cultivation site, all cannabis goods shall be stored in a locked storage,
limited access area. All cannabis goods, including live cannabis plants that
are being cultivated, shall be kept in a manner as to prevent diversion, theft,
and loss;
      (8)   Installing 24-hour security surveillance cameras of at least HD-
quality to monitor all vehicle entrances and exits to and from the premises,
all interior spaces within the cannabis business which are open and accessible
to the public, all interior spaces where cannabis, cash, or currency is being
stored for any period of time on a regular basis, and all interior spaces where
diversion of cannabis could reasonably occur. All cameras shall record in
color. All exterior cameras shall be in weatherproof enclosures, shall be
located so as to minimize the possibility of vandalism, and shall have the
capability to automatically switch to black and white in low light conditions.
The cannabis business shall be responsible for ensuring that the security
surveillance camera’s footage is remotely accessible by the Administrative
Officer or his/her designee(s), and that it is compatible with the county’s
software and hardware. In addition, remote and real-time live access to the
video footage from the cameras shall be provided to the Administrative Officer
or his/her designee(s). Video recordings shall be maintained for a minimum of
30 days and shall be made available to the Administrative Officer or his/her
designee(s) upon request;
      (9)   Sensors shall be installed to detect entry and exit from all secure
areas and shall be monitored in real time by a security company licensed by the
State of California Bureau of Security and Investigative Services;
      (10)   Panic buttons shall be installed in all cannabis businesses with
direct notification to the Sheriff’s Office dispatch and shall be configured to
immediately alert dispatch for the Sheriff’s Office;
      (11)   Having a professionally installed, maintained, and monitored real-
time alarm system by a security company licensed by the State of California
Bureau of Security and Investigative Services;
      (12)   Any bars installed on the windows or the doors of the cannabis
business shall be installed only on the interior of the building;
      (13)   Each cannabis business shall have the capability to remain secure
during a power outage and shall ensure that all access doors are not solely
controlled by an electronic access panel to ensure that locks are not released
during a power outage;
      (14)   Entrance areas are to be locked at all times and under the control
of a designated responsible party that is either an employee of the cannabis
business or a licensed security professional;
      (15)   Each cannabis business shall have an accounting software system in
place to provide point of sale data as well as audit trails or both product and
cash, where applicable;
      (16)   Each cannabis business shall demonstrate to the Sheriff’s Office
and Administrative Officer or their designee(s), compliance with the state’s
track and trace system for cannabis goods;
      (17)   Each cannabis business shall have network security protocols in
place to protect computer information and all digital data;
      (18)   Exterior vegetation shall be planted, altered, and maintained in a
fashion that precludes its use as a hiding place for persons on the premises;
      (19)   Emergency access and emergency evacuation plans that are in
compliance with state and local fire safety standards; and
      (20)   Each permittee shall identify a designated security
representative/liaison to the county, who shall be reasonably available to meet
with the Administrative Officer or his/her designee(s) regarding any security
related measures and/or operational issues. The designated security
representative/liaison shall, on behalf of the cannabis business, annually
maintain a copy of the current security plan on the premises of the business to
present to the Administrative Officer or his/her designee(s) upon request that
meets the following requirements:
         (a)   Confirms that a designated manager will be on duty during
business hours and will be responsible for monitoring the behavior of
employees;
         (b)   Identifies all managers of the cannabis business and their
contact phone numbers;
         (c)   Confirms that first aid supplies and operational fire
extinguishers are located in the service areas and the manager’s office;
         (d)   Confirms that burglar, fire, and panic alarms are operational
and monitored by a licensed security company 24 hours a day, seven days a week,
and provides contact information for each licensed security company.
   (D)   Storage and transportation plan. A cannabis business shall have a
storage and transportation plan, which describes in detail the procedures for
safely and securely storing and transporting any cannabis goods, hazardous
materials that may be used by the business, and/or currency.
   (E)   Floor plan designating limited access areas. The floor plan shall
clearly designate limited access areas in which non-employees must be escorted
at all times, to the degree they are granted access. Limited access areas
include areas in which product, cash, office spaces, and security or
surveillance equipment are stored or contained.
(Ord. 975, § 1, 2018; Ord. 1036, § 13, 2021; Ord. 1074, § 3 (part), 2024)
§ 19.43.071 [RESERVED.]
§ 19.43.080 OPERATING REQUIREMENTS APPLICABLE TO ALL CANNABIS BUSINESSES.
   (A)   All commercial cannabis activities occurring at a cannabis business
site shall comply with the provisions of this chapter, as well as all
applicable state and local laws.
   (B)   Each cannabis business shall operate in a reasonable manner such that
the effects on the health or safety of nearby properties through creation of
mold, mildew, dust, glare, heat, noise, noxious gasses, odor, smoke, traffic,
vibration, or other
impacts of commercial cannabis activities are minimized.
   (C)   Commercial cannabis activities shall not create hazards due to the use
or storage of materials, processes, products, chemicals, fertilizers, or
wastes.
   (D)   Exterior lighting at the cannabis business site shall ensure the
safety of the public and the members and employees of the facility while not
disturbing surrounding residential or commercial areas, and shall comply with
all applicable provisions of
Chapter 19.31 regarding development lighting within the county. Illumination of
any portion of the cannabis business site between the hours of darkness by
lighting that is visible from the exterior of the cannabis business site,
except such lighting as is reasonably utilized for the security of the cannabis
business site, is prohibited.
   (E)   Driveways, sidewalks, parking strips, fire access roads and streets on
or adjacent to the premises shall be kept in a clean and safe condition.
   (F)   Loitering. The owner and/or operator of a cannabis business shall
prohibit loitering by persons outside the facility both on the premises and
within 50 feet of the premises. The cannabis business shall notify the
Sheriff’s Office if anyone continues to loiter around the building or premises
after reasonable action has been taken to remove the individual(s) and the
action has failed to do so in a timely manner.
   (G)   Restriction on alcohol. The sale, dispensing, or consumption of
alcoholic beverages on or about a cannabis business facility or in its parking
area is prohibited.
   (H)   Hours of operation. A cannabis business may operate only during the
hours specified in the conditional use permit issued under Title 25 and/or the
cannabis business permit issued by the county under
Chapter 7.02.
   (I)   Age. No person under the age of 21 years shall operate a cannabis
business, or be issued a permit for any commercial cannabis activity of any
kind.
   (J)   Records and recordkeeping. Each owner and/or operator of a cannabis
business shall maintain accurate books and records in an electronic format,
detailing all of the revenues and expenses of the business, and all of its
assets and liabilities. Each permittee shall be subject to a regulatory
compliance review and financial audit as determined by the Administrative
Officer or his/her designee(s).
   (K)   Each owner and/or operator of a cannabis business shall maintain a
current register of the names and the contact information (including the name,
address, and telephone number) of anyone owning or holding an interest in the
cannabis business, and separately of all the officers, managers, employees,
agents, and volunteers currently employed or otherwise engaged by the cannabis
business. The register required by this paragraph shall be provided to the
Administrative Officer or his/her designee(s) upon a reasonable request.
   (L)   All cannabis businesses shall maintain an inventory control and
reporting system that accurately documents the present location, amounts, and
descriptions of all cannabis goods for all stages of the growing and
production, or manufacturing, laboratory testing, and distribution processes
until purchase as set forth in MAUCRSA and 18 Cal. Code of Regulations §§ 3702
et seq., 3 Cal. Code of Regulations §§ 8407 et seq., and other applicable
regulation adopted by the State of California.
   (M)   Each cannabis business shall allow county officials access to the
business’s books, records, accounts, together with any other data or documents
relevant to its permitted commercial cannabis activities, for the purpose of
conducting an audit or examination. Books, records, accounts, and any and all
relevant data or documents will be produced no later than 24 hours after
receipt of the county’s request, unless otherwise stipulated by the county. The
county may require the materials to be submitted in an electronic format that
is compatible with the county’s software and hardware.
   (N)   Restriction on alcohol and tobacco sales.
      (1)   No person shall cause or permit the sale, dispensing, or
consumption of alcoholic beverages on or about the premises of the commercial
cannabis business.
      (2)   No person shall cause or permit the sale or tobacco products on or
about the premises of the commercial cannabis business.
      (3)   No person shall consume cannabis, cannabis products, tobacco, or
alcohol on the premises of any commercial cannabis business.
   (O)   Restriction on consumption. Cannabis shall not be consumed by any
employee of any cannabis business at the cannabis business site, or during any
commercial transfer, including, but not limited to, delivery and/or
distribution.
   (P)   No cannabis goods or graphics depicting cannabis goods shall be
visible from the exterior of any cannabis business, or on any of the vehicles
owned or used as part of the cannabis business.
   (Q)   No outdoor storage of cannabis goods is permitted at any time.
   (R)   Signage and notices. In addition to the requirements otherwise set
forth in this section, business identification signage for a cannabis business
shall conform to the requirements of this code including, but not limited to,
seeking the issuance of a sign permit from the county.
      (1)   No signs placed on the premises of a cannabis business shall
obstruct any entrance or exit to the building or any window.
      (2)   Each entrance to a cannabis business shall be visibly posted with a
clear and legible notice indicating that smoking, ingesting, or otherwise
consuming cannabis on the premises is prohibited.
      (3)   Business identification signage shall be limited to that needed for
identification only and shall not contain any logos or information that
identifies, advertises, or lists the services or the products offered. No
cannabis business shall advertise by having a person holding a sign and
advertising the business to passersby, whether such person is on the premises
of the cannabis business or elsewhere including, but not limited to, the public
right-of-way.
      (4)   Signage shall not be directly illuminated, internally or
externally. No banners, flags, billboards, or other prohibited signs may be
used at any time.
      (5)   In accordance with state law and regulations or as stipulated in
the applicable permit issued pursuant to Title 25 and/or
Chapter 7.02, a cannabis business shall agree that, as an express and ongoing
condition of operating, the holder of the permit shall be prohibited from
utilizing any of the following to advertise any cannabis business located in
the county, including, but not limited to, a billboard (fixed or mobile), bus
shelter, placard, aircraft, and/or other similar forms of advertising. This
division is not intended to place limitations on the ability of a cannabis
business to advertise in other legally authorized forms, including on the
internet, in magazines, or in other similar ways.
   (S)   Odor control for indoor cultivation. Odor control devices and
techniques shall be incorporated in all indoor cannabis businesses to ensure
that odors from cannabis are not detectable off-site. Cannabis businesses shall
provide a sufficient odor absorbing ventilation and exhaust system so that odor
generated inside the cannabis business that is distinctive to its operation is
not detected outside of the facility, anywhere on adjacent property or public
rights-of-way, on or about the exterior or interior common area walkways,
hallways, breezeways, foyers, lobby areas, or any other areas available for use
by common tenants or the visiting public, or within any other unit located
inside the same building as the cannabis business. As such, cannabis businesses
must install and maintain the following equipment, or any other equipment which
the Administrative Officer or his/her designee(s) determine is a more effective
method or technology:
      (1)   An exhaust air filtration system with odor control that prevents
internal odors from being emitted externally;
      (2)   An air system that creates negative air pressure between the
commercial cannabis business’s interior and exterior, so that the odors
generated inside the commercial cannabis business are not detectable on the
outside of the commercial cannabis business.
   (T)   Display of permit and county business license. The original copy of
any state license, cannabis business permit issued pursuant to
Chapter 7.02, and any county-issued business license shall be posted inside the
cannabis business in a location readily-visible to the public.
(Ord. 975, § 1, 2018; Ord. 1036, § 14, 2021; Ord. 1074, § 3 (part), 2024)
§ 19.43.090 SUPPLEMENTAL OPERATING REQUIREMENTS FOR CULTIVATORS.
   (A)   Outdoor cultivation shall be prohibited in areas of the exclusion zone
specified in §
7.04.003(C) applicable to hemp. No cannabis business permit shall be issued
pursuant to this chapter for outdoor cultivation within the exclusion zone.
Outdoor cultivation of any kind within the exclusion zone is expressly
prohibited in the county and shall be subject to all applicable enforcement. It
shall be unlawful and a violation of this chapter, for any person to engage in
any outdoor cultivation of cannabis or hemp of any kind within the exclusion
zone.
   (B)   In any area within the exclusion zone, all commercial cultivation
shall be conducted inside enclosed buildings or structures, and any and all
cannabis, regardless of stage of growth, shall not be visible from the exterior
of the building or structure within which cannabis is cultivated. Any
cultivation occurring within greenhouse structures shall require additional
steps be taken toward screening, shielding, darkening, obscuring, or rendering
opaque the structure to ensure the cannabis cultivated within is not visible.
Structures that are exempt from building permits shall not be used for
cultivation purposes, including structures previously permitted under an
“agricultural building exemption” as defined in
Chapter 21.01.
   (C)   Under no circumstances shall a building intended for residential use
be used for the cultivation of cannabis.
   (D)   In no case, shall cannabis plants be visible from a public or private
road, sidewalk, park, or any common public viewing area within the exclusion
zone.
   (E)   Cultivation shall be conducted in accordance with state and local laws
related to land conversion, grading, electricity, water usage, water quality,
woodland and riparian habitat protection, agricultural discharges, and similar
matters.
   (F)   Pesticides and fertilizers shall be properly labeled and stored to
avoid contamination through erosion, leakage, or inadvertent damage from pests,
rodents, or other wildlife.
   (G)   Cultivation shall at all times be conducted in such a way as to ensure
the health, safety, and welfare of the public, the employees working at the
cannabis business, visitors to the cultivation site, neighboring properties,
and the end users of the cannabis being cultivated, to protect the environment
from harm to streams, fish, and wildlife; to ensure the security of the
cannabis being cultivated; and to safeguard against the diversion of cannabis.
   (H)   All cultivators shall submit to the following in addition to the
information generally otherwise required for a cannabis business:
      (1)   Cultivation and operations plan. A cultivation and operations plan
that meets or exceeds minimum legal standards for water usage, conservation,
and use; drainage, runoff, and erosion control; watershed and habitat
protection; and proper storage of fertilizers, pesticides, and other regulated
products to be used on the parcel; and a description of the cultivation
activities and schedule of activities during each month of growing and
harvesting, or explanation of growth cycles and anticipated harvesting
schedules for all-season harvesting;
      (2)   A description of a legal water source, irrigation plan, and
projected water use;
      (3)   Identification of the source of electrical power and plan for
compliance with applicable building codes and related codes; and
      (4)   Odor mitigation plan. Plan for addressing odor and other public
nuisances that may derive from the cultivation site.
   (I)   Use of water from any water source that is not located on the parcel
on which cultivation is taking place is prohibited.
   (J)   All irrigation runoff, fertilizer, and contaminants on site shall be
contained as specified in the cannabis business operation plan.
   (K)   A cultivator shall only propagate immature plants at their own
corresponding cultivation site in the designated propagation areas, except that
a cultivator shall not be prohibited from propagating immature plants or seeds
for distribution to another cannabis business.
   (L)   The propagation areas shall contain only immature plants.
   (M)   Mother plants used for propagation shall be maintained as immature
plants and located in the designated propagation area.
   (N)   Compliance with the labeling and track and trace program requirements
promulgated by the responsible state department.
   (O)   The following pertains to cultivation activities that are permitted by
right in the AR, AP, BP, M-1, and M-2 zoning districts:
      (1)   Total canopy limits pursuant to §
7.02.050(F) shall be a maximum of 500 acres as of January 1, 2025. For the
following three years the total canopy limits shall increase an additional 500
acres per year, not to exceed 2,000 acres of total canopy after January 1,
2028.
      (2)   Indoor cultivation shall only be permitted by right if located
within existing structures. On parcels where cultivation takes place solely
within existing structures, cannabis cultivation area limits will be set by the
Administrative Officer or his/her designee(s).
      (3)   No outdoor cultivation is permitted within the BP, M-1, and M-
2 zoning districts.
(Ord. 975, § 1, 2018; Ord. 1036, § 15, 2021; Ord. 1074, § 3 (part), 2024)
§ 19.43.100 SUPPLEMENTAL OPERATING REQUIREMENTS FOR DISTRIBUTORS.
   (A)   A distributor shall neither store nor distribute any non-cannabis
goods and/or non-cannabis accessories that are to be sold to another party, on
any permitted cannabis business premises. For the purposes of this section,
non-cannabis goods are any goods that do not meet the definition of cannabis
goods as defined in Cal. Code of Regulations, Title 4, § 15000(i).
   (B)   After taking physical possession of a cannabis goods batch, the
distributor shall contact a testing laboratory and arrange for a laboratory
employee to come to the distributor’s state-licensed premises to select a
representative sample for laboratory testing.
   (C)   A distributor shall ensure that all cannabis and/or cannabis product
batches are stored separately and distinctly from other cannabis and/or
cannabis product batches on the distributor’s premises.
   (D)   The distributor shall ensure that the batch size from which the sample
is taken meets the requirements of state law, specifically the testing
provisions within the California Code of Regulations.
   (E)   A distributor or a distributor’s employee shall be physically present
to observe the laboratory employee obtain the sample of cannabis goods for
testing and shall ensure that the increments are taken from throughout the
batch. The sampling shall be video recorded, and the recording kept available
to state and local authorities for a minimum of 180 days, pursuant to 4 Cal.
Code of Regulations § 15305, or other applicable regulation adopted by the
State of California Department of Cannabis Control.
   (F)   A distributor shall not transport cannabis goods to a state licensed
retailer unless and until it has verified that the cannabis goods have been
tested and certified by a state licensed testing laboratory as being in
compliance with state health and safety requirements pursuant to 4 Cal. Code of
Regulations §§ 15306 and 15307 or other applicable regulation adopted by the
State of California Department of Cannabis Control.
   (G)   A distributor shall comply with all requirements promulgated by the
applicable state department or agency, including, but not limited to, all
bonding and insurance requirements, as well as those requirements for any
commercial vehicles or trailers used for transporting cannabis goods.
   (H)   No licensee may distribute cannabis from an unlicensed cannabis
cultivator or cannabis manufacturer. Licensed distributors may only distribute
products between other licensed businesses within the State of California.
Distributors may not sell product directly to consumers, unless they also have
a local retail license.
   (I)   Distribution premises shall be inaccessible by the general public and
shall be fully enclosed.
   (J)   The following pertains to distribution activities that are permitted
by right in the AR, AP, BP, M-1, and M-2 zoning districts:
      (1)   Distribution: a distribution license permitted by right may only be
issued to a licensee with suitable storage premises.
      (2)   Transport only: a transport only license is a licensee who
transports cannabis and cannabis products between state licensees. A transport
only licensee shall not store or hold any cannabis or cannabis product.
(Ord. 975, § 1, 2018; Ord. 1036, § 21, 2021; Ord. 1074, § 3 (part), 2024)
§ 19.43.110 SUPPLEMENTAL OPERATING REQUIREMENTS FOR MANUFACTURING SITES.
   (A)   All cannabis manufacturing businesses shall comply with all safety and
manufacturing practices as set forth in Cal. Business and Professions Code
Division 10, Chapter 13, §§ 26130 – 26132.
   (B)   All cannabis manufacturing facilities shall comply with sanitation
standards equivalent to the California Retail Food Code Part 7 § 113700 of
Division 104 of the Cal. Health and Safety Code for food preparation, storage,
handling, and sale of edible cannabis products.
   (C)   All cannabis manufacturing facilities shall have an automatic fire
sprinkler system, designed in compliance with International Fire Code, and
approved by County Fire. Each facility shall be required to comply with fire
design standards and fire safety standards of Title 23 and 25 of the San Benito
County Code.
   (D)   Any compressed gases used in the manufacturing process shall not be
stored on any property within the county in containers that exceed the amount
which is approved by County Fire and authorized by the regulatory permit. Each
site or parcel subject to a permit under Title 25 and
Chapter 7.02 shall be limited to a total number of tanks as authorized by
County Fire on the property at any time.
   (E)   Manufacturing facilities may use heat, screens, presses, steam
distillation, ice water, ethanol, and other methods without employing solvents
or gases to create kief, hashish, bubble hash, or infused dairy butter, or oils
or fats derived from natural sources, and other extracts.
   (F)   If an extraction process uses a professional grade closed loop CO2 gas
extraction system every vessel must be certified by the manufacturer for its
safe use as referenced in division (H). The CO2 must be of at least 99% percent
purity.
   (G)   Closed loop systems for compressed gas extraction systems must be
commercially manufactured and bear a permanently affixed and visible serial
number. All equipment associated with closed-loop systems must be properly
maintained and in working order at all times. Maintenance records must reflect
the certifying engineer’s recommended maintenance schedule for all equipment
used, must detail last date of inspection, upgrades carried out, and must be
provided for inspection by County officials at any time.
   (H)   Certification from an engineer licensed by the state or by a certified
industrial hygienist must be provided to the Administrative Officer or his/her
designee(s) for a professional grade closed loop system used by any commercial
cannabis manufacturing manufacturer to certify that the system was commercially
manufactured, is safe for its intended use, and was built to codes of
recognized and generally accepted good engineering practices, including, but
not limited to:
      (1)   The American Society of Mechanical Engineers (ASME);
      (2)   American National Standards Institute (ANSI);
      (3)   Underwriters Laboratories (UL); or
      (4)   The American Society for Testing and Materials (ASTM).
   (I)   The certification document must contain the signature and stamp of the
professional engineer or industrial hygienist and serial number of the
extraction unit being certified.
   (J)   Professional closed loop systems, other equipment used, the extraction
operation, and facilities must be approved for their use by County Fire and
meet any required fire, safety, and building code requirements specified in the
California Building Reference Codes.
   (K)   Manufacturing facilities may use food grade glycerin, ethanol, and
propylene glycol solvents to create or refine extracts. Ethanol should be
removed from the extract in a manner to recapture the solvent and ensure that
it is not vented into the atmosphere.
   (L)   Manufacturing facilities creating cannabis extracts must develop
standard operating procedures, good manufacturing practices, and a training
plan prior to producing extracts for the marketplace.
   (M)   Any person using solvents or gases in a closed looped system to create
cannabis extracts must be fully trained on how to use the system, have direct
access to applicable material safety data sheets, and handle and store the
solvents and gases safely.
   (N)   Parts per million for one gram of finished extract cannot exceed state
standards for any residual solvent or gas when quality assurance tested.
   (O)   The licensee must maintain at the facility complete and accurate
records for all raw and/or cannabis extract source material used in manufacture
processing with all source identification information, to include, origin,
operator, supplier name, location, address, state and local license
information, and quantity of product in manufacture.
   (P)   The production of edible products must take place within a permitted
commercial grade kitchen facility. Non-cannabis products may not be produced at
the same kitchen facilities where cannabis products are produced. Production of
edibles in shapes of a human, animal, or fruit is prohibited.
   (Q)   All cannabis products, food products, food storage facilities, food-
related utensils, and equipment and materials used in the manufacture process
shall be approved, used, managed, and handled in accordance with California
Department of Public Health requirements. All food products and cannabis
products shall be protected from contamination at all times. All food handlers
must be clean, in good health, free from communicable diseases, and must obtain
any food handling certification required by the State of California.
   (R)   County of San Benito Environmental Health may impose any reasonable
additional restrictions or requirements to ensure public health and may inspect
any portion of the commercial cannabis manufacture facility at any time during
normal business hours to ensure compliance.
   (S)   All items to be sold or distributed retail shall be packaged and
sealed in tamper-evident packaging as required by the California Department of
Public Health.
   (T)   No cannabis used in manufacture may be sourced from an unlicensed
cultivator, manufacturer, or distributor. Licensed manufacturers may only sell
their product within the State of California to other licensed cannabis
businesses and may not sell product directly to consumers.
   (U)   Facilities shall, on an annual basis, provide Environmental Health
with a list of hazardous materials types and quantities used. This list must be
kept on site at the facility as well as be available during County inspections
of the facility.
   (V)   The following pertains to manufacturing activities that are permitted
by right in the BP, M-1, and M-2 zoning districts:
      (1)   Manufacturing shall only be permitted by right if located within
existing structures. On parcels where manufacturing takes place solely within
existing structures, manufacturing area limits will be set by the
Administrative Officer or his/her designee(s).
(Ord. 975, § 1, 2018; Ord. 1074, § 3 (part), 2024)
§ 19.43.120 SUPPLEMENTAL OPERATING REQUIREMENTS FOR TESTING LABORATORIES.
   (A)   Testing laboratories shall be required to conduct all testing of
cannabis goods in a manner pursuant to Cal. Business and Professions Code §
26100 and shall be subject to state and local law. Each testing laboratory
shall be subject to additional regulations as determined from time to time as
more regulations are developed under this chapter, and any subsequent state
legislation regarding the same.
   (B)   Testing laboratories shall conduct all testing of cannabis goods in a
manner consistent with general requirements for the competence of testing and
calibrations activities, including sampling using verified methods.
   (C)   All testing laboratories performing testing shall obtain and maintain
ISO/IEC 17025 accreditation as required by the Department of Cannabis Control.
   (D)   Testing laboratories shall destroy any harvest batch which testing
sample indicates non-compliance with health and safety standards required by
the Department of Cannabis Control unless remedial measures can bring the
cannabis goods into compliance with quality standards as specified by law and
implemented by the Department of Cannabis Control.
   (E)   Each testing laboratory shall ensure that a testing laboratory
employee takes the sample of cannabis goods from the distributor’s premises for
testing required by state law and that the testing laboratory employee
transports the sample to the testing laboratory.
   (F)   Except as provided by state law, a testing laboratory shall not
acquire or receive cannabis goods except from a state licensee in accordance
with state law, and shall not distribute, sell, or dispense cannabis goods from
the state licensed premises from which the cannabis goods were acquired or
received. All distribution shall be performed pursuant to a specified chain of
custody protocol.
   (G)   A testing laboratory may receive and test samples of cannabis goods
from a qualified patient or primary caregiver only if the qualified patient or
primary caregiver presents the qualified patient’s valid physician’s
recommendation for cannabis for medicinal purpose. A testing laboratory shall
not certify samples from a qualified patient or primary caregiver for resale or
transfer to another party or licensee. All tests performed by a testing
laboratory for a qualified patient or primary caregiver shall be recorded with
the name of the qualified patient or primary caregiver and the amount of the
cannabis goods received.
   (H)   Testing laboratories shall be required to conduct all testing in a
manner pursuant to Cal. Business and Professions Code § 26100, applicable
regulations adopted by the State of California Department of Cannabis Control,
and shall be subject to state and local law.
   (I)   The following pertains to laboratories that are permitted by right in
the BP, M-1, and M-2 zoning districts:
      (1)   Laboratory facilities shall only be permitted by right if located
within existing structures.
(Ord. 975, § 1, 2018; Ord. 1036, § 16, 2021; Ord. 1074, § 3 (part), 2024)
§ 19.43.130 SUPPLEMENTAL OPERATING REQUIREMENTS FOR RETAIL SITES.
   (A)   It is unlawful and shall constitute a public nuisance for anyone to
own, establish, operate, use or permit the establishments or operation of a
retail business without a valid local license required by this chapter, and a
valid state license required under California law. This includes renting,
leasing, or otherwise permitting a retailer to occupy or use a location.
   (B)   Holders of state retail license, which are located within the County
of San Benito, may offer storefront retail and non-storefront retail, including
delivery of cannabis to consumers via mobile delivery to the consumer’s
premises.
   (C)   Licensees engaging in mobile deliveries shall keep complete and
appropriate financial records enabling audit of all transactions via mobile
delivery, and shall be able to distinguish between, and account for, sales
between the categories of on-site sales versus mobile delivery sales for
accounting purposes.
   (D)   Licensees that engage in mobile deliveries are prohibited from having
any advertisement of their business or services on their delivery vehicles.
   (E)   The following pertains to retail activities that are permitted by
right in C-1, C-2, BP, M-1, and M-2 zoning districts:
      (1)   Retail shall only be permitted by right if located within existing
structures in BP, M-1, and M-2 zoning districts.
      (2)   Pursuant to §
7.02.050(E) the number of permits issued for storefront retail shall be limited
to five.
(Ord. 1074, § 3 (part), 2024)
§ 19.43.140 SUPPLEMENTAL OPERATING REQUIREMENTS FOR MICROBUSINESS.
   (A)   Microbusinesses shall be required to comply with the supplemental
operating requirements, as set forth in this chapter, applicable to each
commercial cannabis activity in which the microbusiness engages.
Microbusinesses operating in any AR, AP, BP, M-1, or M-2 Districts.
   (B)   Eligible microbusiness activities include at least three of the
following activities at one location:
      (1)   Cultivation of up to 10,000 square feet.
      (2)   Manufacturing use of non-volatile solvents and mechanical
extraction or infusion.
      (3)   Distribution or distribution transport-only.
      (4)   Retail storefront or non-storefront.
(Ord. 975, § 1, 2018; Ord. 1036, § 17, 2021; Ord. 1074, § 3 (part), 2024)
§ 19.43.150 NON-COMPLIANCE WITH OPERATIONAL REQUIREMENTS.
   Any violation of this chapter may result in the immediate suspension of any
cannabis business permit issued pursuant to
Chapter 7.02, and pending investigation and a hearing, shall result in
revocation of the cannabis business permit at the Administrative Officer or
his/her designee(s) discretion, subject to review by the Hearing Officer. Under
no circumstances shall a cause of action for monetary damages be allowed
against the county, Administrative Officer or his/her designee(s), or any
county employee or representative, as a result of a suspension or revocation of
a cannabis business permit.
(Ord. 975, § 1, 2018; Ord. 1074, § 3 (part), 2024)
§ 19.43.160 INSPECTION AND ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The Administrative Officer or his/her designee(s) shall have the
primary responsibility and authority to administer and enforce this chapter.
   (B)   The Administrative Officer or his/her designee(s) may inspect and
enforce the requirements of this chapter in accordance with the provisions set
forth in §
7.02.200.
   (C)   In addition, if the Administrative Officer or his/her designee(s) has
reasonable cause to believe that there exists any condition on the property
unsafe or dangerous which may require immediate inspection to safeguard the
public safety, the Administrative Officer or his/her designee(s) shall have the
right to immediately enter and inspect such property and may use any reasonable
means required to effect such entry and make such inspection. The cannabis
business operator shall permit such entry and hold harmless and indemnify the
Administrative Officer or his/her designee(s) and the county from any liability
in connection with lawful entry hereunder.
   (D)   In the event the Administrative Officer or his/her designee(s) is
unable to obtain compliance with any of the terms and provisions of this
chapter or a condition of approval, related to health and safety, he or she may
order immediate cessation of operations and require Code Enforcement to issue
fines and administrative citations per §
1.04.005(F).
   (E)   In the event of non-compliance with this chapter or of a condition of
approval not involving a health and safety risk, the Administrative Officer or
his/her designee(s) may request that the Planning Commission issue an order for
the immediate cessation of operations. In the event that an order to cease
operations is issued, the Administrative Officer or his/her designee(s) shall
coordinate with the operator to ensure that the operator completes the shutdown
as soon it can be safely accomplished, and may require that the operator
provide a schedule, subject to the Administrative Officer or his/her designee
(s) approval, of the timeline and events necessary to accomplish the shutdown.
If such operations are not stopped or if resumed prior to written approval of
the Administrative Officer or his/her designee(s), the Administrative Officer
or his/her designee(s) may request administrative citations per §
19.43.160(E), civil action by the Office of County Counsel, criminal
prosecution by the Office of the District Attorney, or each such remedy, or may
utilize any other available remedies available under the law.
(Ord. 975, § 1, 2018; Ord. 1074, § 3 (part), 2024)
TITLE 21: BUILDING AND ENGINEERING
   Chapter
      
21.01.   BUILDING REGULATIONS
      
21.03.   AFFORDABLE HOUSING REGULATIONS
      
21.05.   PROPERTY OWNER RELOCATION OBLIGATIONS
      
21.07.   (RESERVED)
      
21.09.   TRANSFER OF DEVELOPMENT CREDITS
CHAPTER 21.01: BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
Article I. In General
   
21.01.001   Definitions
   
21.01.002   Purpose of chapter
   
21.01.003   Applicability of chapter; compliance required
   
21.01.004   Voluntary compliance by persons exempted
   
21.01.005   Permits
   
21.01.006   Procedure for amendment of this chapter
Article II: California Building Standards Code
   
21.01.020   Purpose, adoption and authority
   
21.01.021   Adoption of 2022 California Building Codes, International and
Uniform Codes
   
21.01.022   California Administrative Code, 2019 Edition, adopted by reference
   
21.01.023   Application
   
21.01.024   Conflicts with other laws, rules and the like
Article III. Appeals Board
   
21.01.045   Established; purpose; composition
   
21.01.046   Appointment and term of office of member
   
21.01.047   Powers and duties
Article IV. Mobile Home Installations
   
21.01.060   Permits; required; application; exemptions
   
21.01.061   Permits; issuance; appeal; final action
   
21.01.062   Permits; fees
Article V. Private Swimming Pools
   
21.01.075   Defined
   
21.01.076   Enclosure required
   
21.01.077   Existing swimming pools
   
21.01.078   Inspection
Article VI. Relocation of Structures
   
21.01.090   Intent
   
21.01.091   Permit required
   
21.01.092   Initial inspection
   
21.01.093   Extra legal load permit
   
21.01.094   Bond requirement
Article VII. Agricultural Building Exemption
   
21.01.110   Definitions
   
21.01.111   Exemption requirements
   
21.01.112   Optional impact fee exemption
   
21.01.113   Use not exempt
   
21.01.114   Exemption application
   
21.01.115   Indemnification
   
21.01.116   Conversion to non- agricultural use
   
21.01.117   Appeal process
Article VIII. Areas for the Storage and Collection of Recyclable Materials
   
21.01.130   Purpose
   
21.01.131   Definitions
   
21.01.132   General requirements
   
21.01.133   Design standards
   
21.01.134   Location
   
21.01.135   Deferral of construction
   
21.01.136   Health Department inspection
Article IX. Enforcement
   
21.01.150   Enforcement
   
21.01.151   Violation of chapter; criminal
   
21.01.152   Violation of chapter; public nuisance
   
21.01.153   Remedies cumulative
   
21.01.154   Validity
Article X. Small Residential Rooftop Solar Energy System Review Process
   
21.01.170   Title and authority
   
21.01.171   Definitions
   
21.01.172   Purpose
   
21.01.173   Applicability
   
21.01.174   Solar energy system requirements
   
21.01.175   Duties of the Building Department and Building Official
   
21.01.176   Application; permit; inspection requirements
Article XI. Expedited Permit Process for Electric Vehicle Charging Stations
   
21.01.190   Findings and purpose
   
21.01.191   Authority
   
21.01.192   Definitions
   
21.01.193   Expedited permitting process
   
21.01.194   Permit application processing
   
21.01.195   Technical review
   
21.01.196   Electric vehicle charging station installation requirements
   
21.01.197   California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) exemption
Cross-reference:
   Airport Zoning, see
Chapter 19.03 of this code
   Construction requirements for restaurants, other food establishments, see §
7.07.013 of this code
   Subdivisions, see Title 23 of this code
   Zoning, see Title 25 of this code
Editor’s note:
   Prior ordinance history: Ords. 229, 254, 306, 331, 344, 355, 360, 370, 375,
382, 427.
Statutory reference:
   Adoption by reference, see Cal. Gov’t Code §§ 50022.1 to 50022.10
ARTICLE I. IN GENERAL
§ 21.01.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of the San Benito County Codes "SBCC," and unless otherwise
defined later in these titles, the following words and phrases shall have the
meanings and duties respectively ascribed to them by this section and shall be
applicable to all titles contained in this code.
   BUILDING DEPARTMENT. A division of the county's Planning and Building
Department and the office of the county's Building Official and the county's
building inspector.
   BUILDING OFFICIAL. The officer designated by the county's Board of
Supervisors to enforce the county codes.
   COMMERCIAL. That which does not fall within the scope of the RESIDENTIAL
definition contained later in this section. All COMMERCIAL projects shall be
subject to its respective occupancy classification and usage as contained in
the most current International Building Code, “IBC,” or California Building
Code, “CBC,” whichever is the most restrictive.
   FEES. Pursuant to Cal. Code of Regulations, Title 24, Chapter 1, Division 1,
§ 1.8.4.2, the county may prescribe fees to defray the cost of enforcement of
rules and regulations promulgated by the Department of Housing and Community
Development. The amount of the fees shall not exceed the amount reasonably
necessary to administer or process permits, certificates, forms, or other
documents, or to defray the costs of enforcement. The county master fee
schedule is contained in §
5.01.000 and is applicable to all types of construction.
   FIFTY PERCENT RULE. Where any additions, alterations, remodels, repairs, or
construction similar in nature are more than 50% of the entire project or
building, as determined by the Building Official, then the building shall be
considered new. This may require additional fees, impact fees, code compliance
with current codes, etc.
   FIRE CHIEF. The Chief of the Hollister Fire Protection District, while the
contract with the city remains in effect, or other designee named by the
county.
   FIRE SEPARATION DISTANCE. The distance from the finished wall surface to the
property line.
   GEOTECHNICAL. That which is related to the engineering of earth materials.
   GEOTECHNICAL INVESTIGATIONS. In-situ testing, laboratory testing, or
engineering calculation.
   GEOTECHNICAL INVESTIGATIONS NOT REQUIRED. Geotechnical reports are not
required for:
      (1)   One-story, wood-frame and light-steel-frame buildings of Type II or
Type V construction and 4,000 square feet (371 m2) or less in floor area, not
located within earthquake fault zones or seismic hazard zones as shown in the
most recently published maps from the California Geological Survey (CGS) or in
seismic hazard zones as defined in the safety element of the local General
Plan. Allowable foundation and lateral soil pressure values may be determined
from Table 1806A.2. Agricultural buildings are exempt from up to 10,000 square
feet.
      (2)   A previous report for a specific site may be resubmitted, provided
that a reevaluation is made, and the report is found to be currently
appropriate; and
      (3)   Agriculture structures/buildings in agriculture zoning.
   GEOTECHNICAL INVESTIGATIONS REQUIRED. Geotechnical investigations are
required for all habitable structures more than 1,200 square feet and shall be
conducted in accordance with Cal. Building Code § 1803A.2 and reported in
accordance with § 1803A.7. The classification and investigation of the soil
shall be made under the responsible charge of a state registered geotechnical
engineer. All recommendations contained in geotechnical and geohazard reports
shall be subject to the approval of the enforcement agency. All reports shall
be prepared and signed by a registered geotechnical engineer, a certified
engineering geologist, and a registered geophysicist, where applicable.
   HIGHWAYS. The whole of all public ways, roads, alleys, courts and streets,
and sidewalks between the property lines forming the exterior lateral
boundaries thereof, and those parts of public squares and places which form
traveled parts of highways.
   HOURS OF CONSTRUCTION. During the day, namely during the hours of 7:00 a.m.
to 10:00 p.m. Monday—Saturday, no Sundays or national holidays. See §
19.39.010 for times.
   INSPECTIONS. All work shall be complete prior to scheduling the inspection.
Inspections shall be scheduled with the RMA a minimum of 24 hours prior to the
requested inspection. A qualified person shall remain on-site to meet the
inspector with the approved plans, specifications, and permit. Roofing and
photovoltaic inspections are to have an OSHA-approved ladder secured to the
building at the time of the inspection. Electrical inspections shall be
conducted with qualified personnel, and the panel enclosures, junction boxes,
and related electrical components shall be accessible/open at the time of the
inspection.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. The construction of a residence or structure which is
built on a previously undeveloped site/parcel of a previously razed structure
with no remnants of the prior structure or physical connection to existing
structures or outbuildings on the respective property. (See also FIFTY PERCENT
RULE).
   OFFICIAL TIME. Whenever certain hours are named herein, they shall mean
Pacific Standard Time or Daylight Saving Time as may be in current use in the
county.
   PERMIT. An official document or certificate issued by the Building Official
that authorizes the performance of a specified activity.
   PERMIT REQUIRED. Any owner or owner's authorized agent who intends to
construct, enlarge, alter, repair, move, demolish or change the occupancy of a
building or structure, or to erect, install, enlarge, alter, repair, remove,
convert or replace any electrical, gas, mechanical or plumbing system, the
installation of which is regulated by this code, or to cause any such work to
be performed, shall first make application to the Building Official and obtain
the required permit. A written construction permit shall be obtained from the
enforcing agency prior to the erection, construction, reconstruction,
installation, moving, or alteration of any building or structure.
   REMODEL. To change, enlarge, alter, repair, move, demolish, or change the
occupancy of a building or structure or to erect, install, enlarge, alter,
repair, remove, convert or replace any electrical, gas, mechanical, and/or
plumbing system.
   Exception. If more than 50% of the existing structure or its components are
remodeled, altered, repaired, enlarged, converted, or replaced the structure
shall be deemed new and the entire structure shall be brought up to the current
code. In the event the 50% threshold is exceeded, the scope shall be considered
new construction and shall be assessed for all fees, impact fees, etc.,
accordingly.
   RESIDENTIAL. Detached one- and two-family dwellings and townhouses not more
than three stories above grade plane in height with a separate means of  egress
and their accessory structures may be designed and constructed in accordance
with this code or the California Building Code, but not both, unless the
proposed structure(s) or element(s) exceed the design limitations established
in this code and the code user is specifically directed by this code to use the
California Building Code. All other construction projects not meeting the above
definition shall be subject to its own occupancy classification and usage and
contained in the most current International Building Code "IBC" or California
Building Code "CBC," whichever is the most restrictive.
   SETBACK. The distance from the property line to the finished wall. At pre-
pour foundation forms and footing inspection, the distance from the property
line to the forms shall take this into account and the forms set further away
accordingly to account for the finished wall surface. Example: a five foot
setback with a stucco exterior shall have the forms set at five and one-half
inches to allow for plywood backing and the thickness of the stucco.
   SIDELINE. The SIDELINE of a road, roadway, or state highway is the edge of
the travel way, as determined by the Building Official, such as the painted fog
line, edge of pavement, curb and gutter, or similar conditions.
   SUBMITTAL DOCUMENTS. Those construction documents of which submittal is
required by Resource Management Agency "RMA" in conjunction with all proposed
site development, remodel, addition, renovation, improvement to existing
structures and new residential development. Construction documents shall be
drawn upon suitable material. Electronic media documents are required to be
submitted where approved by the Building Official. Construction documents shall
be of sufficient clarity to indicate the location, nature and extent of the
work proposed and show in detail that it will conform to the provisions of this
code and relevant laws, ordinances, rules and regulations, as determined by the
Building Official.
   SUBMITTAL DOCUMENTS REQUIRED. Submittal documents consisting of construction
documents, and other data shall be submitted in two or
 
2023 S-26
         Building Regulations   7
more sets with each application for a permit. The construction documents shall
be prepared by a registered design professional where required by the statutes
of the jurisdiction in which the project is to be constructed. Where special
conditions exist, the Building Official is authorized to require additional
construction documents to be prepared by a registered design professional. The
Building Official is authorized to waive the submission of construction
documents and other data not required to be prepared by a registered design
professional if it is found that the nature of the work applied for is such
that reviewing of construction documents is not necessary to obtain compliance
with this code.
   WILDLAND URBAN INTERFACE. The area where new construction and wild
undeveloped areas (Wildland) come together. The Building Official and/or the
Fire Marshal shall be able to determine high hazard fire areas more restrictive
than the state, and determine what materials, methods and assemblies shall be
used for construction.
(1966 Code, § 5-1) (Ord. 501, (part); Ord. 1,004, § 1, 2020; Ord. 1054, § 1,
2023)
§ 21.01.002 PURPOSE OF CHAPTER.
   The purpose of this chapter is to safeguard persons and property within the
county by establishing minimum standards for building construction, including
the installation of plumbing and electrical systems, and to safeguard life,
health, safety and public welfare by regulating and controlling the design,
construction, quality of materials, use and occupancy, location and maintenance
of all buildings and structures within the county.
(1966 Code, § 5-2) (Ord. 501, (part))
§ 21.01.003 APPLICABILITY OF CHAPTER; COMPLIANCE REQUIRED.
   No person shall erect, construct, enlarge, alter, move, improve, remove,
convert, demolish, equip, use, occupy or maintain any building or structure in
the unincorporated area of the county or cause the same to be done contrary to
or in violation of this chapter or in violation of any of the provisions of the
codes adopted by this chapter.
(1966 Code, § 5-3) (Ord. 501, (part))
§ 21.01.004 VOLUNTARY COMPLIANCE BY PERSONS EXEMPTED.
   Any owner of a building exempted from the provisions of this chapter may
obtain the services of the Building Department by applying for a building
permit and paying the customary fees.
(1966 Code, § 5-4) (Ord. 501, (part))
§ 21.01.005 PERMITS.
   (A)   A complete application for a permit, including all plans and data as
required by the Building Official, shall be filed with the Building Department
before any work may be done on any building. The Building Official may then
issue a permit to a owner of property for the person to construct, enlarge,
alter, repair, move, convert, demolish, plumb, wire, install, change, do work
in, on or about any building upon his or her property, provided the work
authorized by the permit shall in all respects conform with the provisions of
this chapter and other applicable county codes.
   (B)   No permit fee shall be required to be paid by the county, any school
district or special district, the State of California or the United States
Government, when work is being done on the official properties of the agencies
and is to be used for a governmental or educational purpose.
(1966 Code, § 5-5) (Ord. 501, (part))
§ 21.01.006 PROCEDURE FOR AMENDMENT OF THIS CHAPTER.
   Amendments to this chapter shall be made only in the manner set out in this
section. If a proposed amendment is considered by the Board of Supervisors to
be in the best interest of the people, the Board shall fix a time for a hearing
and direct that the substance of the proposed amendment be published at least
once in the newspaper of general circulation, printed and published in the
county, the publication shall be at least ten days prior to the date set for
the hearing.
(1966 Code, § 5-6) (Ord. 501, (part))
ARTICLE II: CALIFORNIA BUILDING STANDARDS CODE
§ 21.01.020 PURPOSE, ADOPTION AND AUTHORITY.
   For the purpose of establishing proper regulations for minimum building
construction standards and also to provide minimum requirements and standards
for the protection of the public safety, health, property and welfare of the
people of the County of San Benito, the 2010 edition of the California Building
Standards Code, Title 24 of the California Code of Regulations, is hereby
adopted by reference without further publication or posting, subject to the
definitions, clarifications, and the amendments set forth in this article and
shall be referred to as the Code. Whenever the Code shall refer to the city,
the same shall mean the county; when they refer to the city council, they shall
mean the County Board of Supervisors; when they refer to the city treasury,
they shall mean the County Treasury and when they refer to code official they
shall refer to the Building Official or his or her designee. This article is
adopted under the authority of Cal. Gov't Code § 50022.2 and Cal. Health and
Safety Code § 18941.5.
(Ord. 822, § 2; Ord. 863, § 1 (part), 2010)
§ 21.01.021 ADOPTION OF 2022 CALIFORNIA BUILDING CODES, INTERNATIONAL AND
UNIFORM CODES.
   The following publications are hereby adopted by reference and incorporated
in this code, except as expressly amended or superseded by the provisions of
this section. Any subsequent errata or supplement published by the California
Building Standards Commission are adopted.
   (A)   California Administrative Code, 2022 Edition, Title 24, Part 1.
   (B)   California Building Code, 2022 Edition, Title 24, Part 2, based on the
2021 International Building Code including, among the Appendices, Appendix
Chapter C; (Group U-Agricultural Buildings), Appendix Chapter G; (Flood-
Resistant construction) Appendix Chapter H; (signs), Appendix Chapter I; (Patio
Covers), and Appendix Chapters J; (Grading), as published by the International
Code Council (ICC) as adopted and amended by the California Building Standards,
California Code of Regulations.
   (C)   California Electrical Code, 2022 Edition, Title 24, Part 3, based on
the 2020 National Electric Code, as published by the National Fire Protection
Association, and as adopted by the California Building Standards Commission in
Title 24 of the California Code of Regulations.
   (D)   California Mechanical Code, 2022 Edition, Title 24, Part 4, based on
the 2021 Uniform Mechanical Code as published by the International Association
of Plumbing and Mechanical Officials, and as adopted by the California Building
Standards Commission in Title 24, Part 4 of the California Code of Regulations.
   (E)   California Plumbing Code, 2022 Edition, Title 24, Part 5, based on the
2021 Uniform Plumbing Code as published by the International Association of
Plumbing and Mechanical Officials, and as adopted by the California Building
Standards Commission in Title 24 of the California Code of Regulations.
   (F)   California Residential Code, 2022 Edition, Title 24, Part 2.5, based
on the 2021 International Residential Code as published by the International
Code Council (ICC) and as adopted and amended by the California Building
Standards Commission in the California Building Standards Code, Title 24 of the
California Code of Regulations.
   (G)   California Green Buildings Standards Code, 2022 Edition, Title 24,
Part 11 (CALGreen), limited to the mandatory sections as adopted by the State
of California.
   (H)   California Energy Code, 2022 Edition, Title 24, Part 6, including
Appendix.
   (I)   California Historical Code, 2022 Edition, Title 24, Part 8 including
Appendix.
   (J)   California Existing Building Code, 2022 Edition, Title 24, Part 10,
based on the 2021 International Existing Building Code as published by the
International Code Council (ICC) and as adopted and amended by the California
Building Standards Commission in the California Building Standards Code, Title
24 of the California Code of Regulations.
   (K)   California Referenced Standards Code, 2022 Edition, Title 24, Part 12,
including Appendix.
   (L)   International Property Maintenance Code 2021 Edition as published by
the International Code Council as a stand-alone document.
   (M)   Uniform Swimming Pool, Spa & Hot Tub Code 2021 Edition as published by
IAMO as a stand- alone document.
   (N)   California Fire Code, 2022 Edition, Title 24, Part 9, adopted in its
entirety with the appendices and amendments. The California Fire Code, 2022
Edition, based on the 2021 International Fire Code as published by the
International Code Council (ICC) and as adopted and amended by the California
Building Standards Commission in the California Building Standards Code, Title
24 of the California Code of Regulations are adopted by reference with the
following amendments:
      (1)   101.1 Title. These regulations shall be known as the Fire Code for
the County of San Benito, hereinafter referred to as "Fire Code." The
California Fire Code is amended as set forth herein by these local amendments.
      (2)   101.2.1 Appendices. Provisions in all appendices to the 2022
California Fire Code are hereby adopted in their entirety and shall apply.
      (3)   102.1 Construction and design provisions. The construction and
design provisions of this code shall apply to:
         (a)   Structures, facilities and conditions arising after the adoption
of this code.
         (b)   Existing structures, facilities and conditions not legally in
existence at the time of adoption of this code.
         (c)   Existing structures, facilities and conditions when identified
in specific sections of this code.
         (d)   Existing structures, facilities and conditions, which, in the
opinion of the Fire Code Official, constitute a distinct hazard to life and
property.
         (e)   Existing Structures Alterations and repairs.
            1.   All new work performed in alterations and/or repairs to
existing structures shall comply with the current provisions of this chapter.
            2.   When alterations and/or repairs result in the removal,
alteration, modification, replacement and/or repair of fifty percent (50%) or
more of the external walls of a building, or result in the removal,
modification, replacement and/or repair of fifty percent (50%) or more of the
existing internal structural and/or non-structural framework, independently or
in combination thereof, within a five year period, the entire building shall be
made to conform to the current provisions of this chapter.
            3.   Existing structures to which additions, alterations or repairs
are made that are valued at an amount to exceed the Engineering News Record
amount used for accessibility hardship determination.
            4.    Calculations of linear wall measurements shall be shown on
all plans submitted for building permits, on the cover page in the project
description of said plans.
            5.   The determination under this section of the requirement for
upgrading any existing structure to full conformance with current provisions of
this chapter shall be at the sole discretion of the Fire Code Official.
      (4)   103.0 Responsibility for enforcement.
         (a)   103.0.1 Within established fire protection districts and
community services districts, responsibility for enforcement of this code shall
be under the direction of the Fire Chief within each district.
         (b)   103.0.2 In areas of Hollister outside incorporated cities or
organized special districts or fire districts, responsibility for enforcement
of this code shall be under the direction of the Chief Building Official with
Code Enforcement of the AHJ.
      (5)   104.1.1 Police powers. The Fire Code Official and his deputies
shall have the powers of police officers in performing their duties under this
code. When requested to do so by the Fire Code Official, the chief of police of
the jurisdiction, or the Sheriff, as applicable, is authorized to assign such
available law enforcement officers as necessary to assist the Fire Code
Official in enforcing the provisions of this code.
      (6)   105.5.0 Agricultural Explosive Devices. An operational permit is
required for storage or use of any agricultural explosive device including
"bird bombs."
      (7)   112.2 Owner/occupant responsibility. Correction and abatement of
all violations of this code shall be the responsibility of the owner. If an
occupant creates, or allows to be created, hazardous conditions in violation of
this code, the occupant may also be held responsible for the correction and
abatement of such hazardous conditions.
      (8)   112.4 Violation penalties. Persons who shall violate any provision
of this code or shall fail to comply with any of the requirements thereof or
shall erect, install, alter, repair or do work in violation of the approved
construction documents or directive of the Fire Code Official, or of a permit
or certificate used under provisions of this code, shall be guilty of an
infraction, punishable by a fine, as set forth in this code. Each day that a
violation continues to exist shall be deemed a separate offense.
      (9)   113.4 Failure to comply. Any person who shall continue any work
after having been served with a stop work order, except such work as that
person is directed to perform to remove a violation or unsafe condition, shall
be guilty of an infraction as specified in Section 112.4 of this code.
      (10)   202 Definitions.
      ALL WEATHER SURFACE. A hard paved road surface constructed to the minimum
standards adopted by the jurisdiction.
      BRIDGE. A structure to carry a roadway over a depression or obstacle.
      IDLE PALLET. A pallet or similar product storage and/or lifting device
not currently in use and empty of product.
      (11)   503.2.6.1 Private bridge engineering. Every private bridge
hereafter constructed shall meet the following engineering requirements:
         1.   The weight shall be designed for a minimum of HS-20 loading as
prescribed by the AASHTO.
         2.   The unobstructed vertical clearance shall be not less than
fifteen (15) feet clear.
         3.   The width shall be a minimum of twenty (20) feet clear. The Fire
Code Official may require additional width when the traffic flow may be
restricted or reduce the width to a minimum of twelve (12) feet for Occupancy
Group U or R-3 occupancies.
         4.   The maximum grade change of the approach to and from any private
bridge shall not exceed eight percent for a minimum distance of ten (10) feet.
      (12)   503.2.6.2 Private bridge certification. Every private bridge
hereafter constructed shall be engineered by a licensed professional engineer
knowledgeable and experienced in the engineering and design of bridges.
Certification that the bridge complies with the design standards required by
this code and the identified standards, and that the bridge was constructed to
those standards, shall be provided by the licensed engineer, in writing, to the
Fire Code Official. Every private bridge, including existing and those
constructed under this code, shall be certified as to its maximum load limits
every ten (10) years or whenever deemed necessary by the Fire Code Official.
Such recertification shall be by a licensed professional engineer knowledgeable
and experienced in the engineering and design of bridges. All fees charged for
the purpose of certification or recertification of private bridges shall be at
the owner's expense.
      (13)   503.2.7 Grade. The grade of fire apparatus access roads shall be
no greater than fifteen (15) percent unless specifically approved by the Fire
Code Official.
      (14)   503.2.7.1 Paving. All fire apparatus access roads over eight (8)
percent shall be paved with a minimum 0.17 feet of asphaltic concrete on 0.34
feet of aggregate base. All fire apparatus access roads over fifteen (15)
percent where approved shall be paved with perpendicularly grooved concrete.
      (15)   503.7 Fire apparatus access road names. All fire apparatus access
road names shall be issued or approved by the appropriate governmental agency.
      (16)   506.1 Required. Where access to or within a structure or an area
is restricted because of secured openings or where immediate access is
necessary for lifesaving or fire-fighting purposes, the Fire Code Official is
authorized to require a key box or other approved emergency access device to be
installed in an approved location. The key box or other approved emergency
access device shall be of an approved type and shall contain keys or other
information to gain necessary access as required by the Fire Code Official.
Where a key box is used, it shall be listed in accordance with UL 1037. This
jurisdiction utilizes the KNOX Box Security Systems.
      (17)   507.5.2 Inspection, testing and maintenance. Fire hydrant systems
shall be subject to periodic tests as required by the Fire Code Official. Fire
hydrant systems shall be maintained in an operative condition at all times and
shall be repaired where defective. Additions, repairs, alterations, and
servicing shall comply with approved standards. When required by the Fire Code
Official, hydrants shall be painted in accordance with the most current edition
of NFPA 291.
      (18)   605.3.1.1 Spark arresters. An approved spark arrester shall be
installed on all chimneys, incinerators, smokestacks or similar devices using
solid fuel for conveying smoke or hot gases to the outer air.
      (19)   605.3.1.2 Spark arresters shall have openings in accordance with
Section 2113.9.2(3) of the California Building Code and Section 1003.9.2 of the
California Residential Code with minimum openings of 3/8" and maximum openings
of 1/2."
      (20)   901.1.1 Responsibility. The owner of the protected premises shall
be responsible for all fire protection systems within the protected premises,
whether existing or installed under this code.
      (21)   901.2.2 Additional documentation. Additional documentation as
required by the Fire Code Official shall be provided to the Fire Code Official
in an acceptable format.
      (22)   901.4 Installation. Fire protection systems shall be maintained in
accordance with the original installation standards for that system. All
systems shall be extended, altered, or augmented as necessary to maintain and
continue protection whenever the building is altered, remodeled or added to.
Alterations to fire protection systems shall be done in accordance with
applicable standards.
      (23)   901.4.8 Nonoperational equipment. Any fire protection equipment
that is no longer in service shall be removed.
      (24)   901.6.4 Qualifications of Inspection, Testing and Maintenance
Personnel. All personnel performing any inspection, testing or maintenance of
any fire protection system shall be qualified. Where such inspection, testing
and maintenance is performed by an outside service company, the company shall
be appropriately licensed by the California Contractors State License Board in
accordance with the California Business & Professions Code or by the California
State Fire Marshal.
      (25)   901.6.5 Additional records. All documentation generated during any
scheduled inspection or test of any fire protection system, whether required or
voluntarily installed, shall be forwarded to the Fire Code Official within
fifteen (15) calendar days after the date of the inspection or test.
      (26)   901.11 Fire Protection Features for Plant Processing and
Extraction Facilities.
         (a)   901.11.1 Scope. This section applies to occupancies regulated by
Chapter 39 of this code.
         (b)   901.11.2 Definitions.
            1.   901.11.2.1 PLANT PROCESSING. Plant processing shall include
all plant post-harvest operations, excluding retail sales of plant and related
products.
            2.   901.11.2.2 INDOOR CULTIVATION. Indoor cultivation shall be
defined as all nursery or cultivation conducted in other than Group U
occupancies (greenhouses).
         (c)   901.11.3 Fire Protection Systems. All buildings or portions
thereof housing plant post-harvest or indoor cultivation operations shall be
protected as defined in this section.
         (d)   901.11.3.1 Fire Sprinklers. Fire sprinklers shall be installed
in accordance with 901.11.3.1.1, 901.11.3.1.2, or 901.11.3.1.3.
         (e)   901.11.3.1.1 Fire sprinklers shall be installed in all buildings
or portions thereof; such fire sprinkler systems shall be designed to Ordinary
Group II design standards in the latest adopted edition of NFPA 13 and Section
903 of this code.
         (f)   901.11.3.1.2 If the occupancy is classified as a Group H
Occupancy the fire sprinkler system may be required to be designed and
installed as an Extra Hazard fire sprinkler system.
         (g)   901.11.3.1.3 Where permitted by the Fire Code Official and not
otherwise required by this code or the CBC, fire sprinklers may be eliminated
in approved buildings less than 500 square feet.
         (h)   901.11.3.2 Fire Alarm Systems. Fire alarm systems shall be
installed in all buildings or portions thereof; such fire alarm systems shall
include both fire sprinkler system monitoring and complete occupant
notification as specified in the latest adopted edition of NFPA 72 and Section
907 of this code.
         (i)   901.11.3.3 Special Hazard Systems. Where specified by
appropriate UL listings for extraction booths utilizing volatile solvents, dry
chemical fire protection systems shall be installed according to the latest
adopted edition of NFPA 17. If there is no UL listing for the extraction booth,
a dry chemical fire protection system shall be installed.
         (j)   901.11.3.4 Portable Fire Extinguishers. Portable fire
extinguishers shall be installed in accordance with NFPA 10 and Section 906 of
this code.
      (27)   903.2 Where required. Approved automatic sprinkler systems shall
be provided in all new buildings and structures constructed, moved into or
relocated within the jurisdiction.
         Exceptions:
         (a)   Structures not classified as Group R occupancies and not more
than five hundred (500) square feet in total floor area.
         (b)   Detached agricultural buildings, as defined by this code and the
CBC, located at least one hundred feet (100) from any other structure or the
property line, whichever is closer.
         (c)   Accessory structures not classified as R occupancies associated
with existing non-sprinklered R-3 occupancies (one- or two-family dwellings)
and less than one thousand five hundred (1500) square feet in total fire area.
         (d)   Where an insufficient water supply exists to provide for an
automatic fire sprinkler system and where the Fire Code Official permits
alternate protection.
      (28)   The following sections are amended by changing requirements to
five hundred (500) square feet for fire sprinkler installation, as follows (the
complete text of the section is not provided):
      903.2.1.1 Group A-1. Change twelve thousand (12,000) square feet to five
hundred (500) square feet.
      903.2.1.2 Group A-2. Change five thousand (5,000) square feet to five
hundred (500) square feet.
      903.2.1.3 Group A-3. Change twelve thousand (12,000) square feet to five
hundred (500) square feet.
      903.2.1.4 Group A-4. Change twelve thousand (12,000) square feet to five
hundred (500) square feet.
      903.2.1.5 Group A-5. Change one thousand (1,000) square feet to five
hundred (500) square feet.
      903.2.3 Group E. Change twelve thousand (12,000) square feet to five
hundred (500) square feet.
      903.2.4 Group F-1. Change twelve thousand (12,000) square feet to five
hundred (500) square feet.
      903.2.4.1 Group F-1. Change two thousand five hundred (2,500) square feet
for woodworking operations to five hundred (500) square feet.
      903.2.7-1 Group M. Change twelve thousand (12,000) square feet to five
hundred (500) square feet.
      903.2.7-3 Group M. Change twenty-four thousand (24,000) square feet to
five hundred (500) square feet.
      903.2.9 Group S-1. Change twelve thousand (12,000) square feet to five
hundred (500) square feet.
      903.2.9.1 Repair Garages. Change ten thousand (10,000) square feet (2
story buildings) and twelve thousand (12,000) square feet (1 story buildings)
to five hundred (500) square feet.
      903.2.9.2 Bulk storage of tires. Change twenty thousand (20,000) cubic
feet to five hundred (500) square feet.
      (29)   903.2.8 Group R. An automatic sprinkler system installed in
accordance with Section 903.3 shall be provided in all buildings with a Group R
fire area, including, but not limited to, one- and two-family dwellings,
townhomes, and manufactured homes and mobile homes located outside of licensed
mobile home parks hereafter constructed, moved into or relocated within the
jurisdiction, including all additions to buildings already equipped with
automatic fire sprinkler systems. (Exceptions remain per 2022 California Fire
Code).
      (30)   903.3.1.1.1 Elevators. Automatic fire sprinklers shall not be
installed at the top of passenger elevator shafts or associated passenger
elevator mechanical rooms, where elevator shafts are constructed with a 2-hour
fire resistive method.
      (31)   Section 903.3.1.1.2 of the California Fire Code is deleted.
      (32)   903.3.1.2 NFPA 13R sprinkler systems. Automatic sprinkler systems
in Group R occupancies up to and including four stories in height shall be
permitted to be installed throughout in accordance with NFPA 13R as amended in
this code, including in Chapter 47.
      (33)   903.3.1.2.1 Balconies and decks. Sprinkler protection shall be
provided for exterior balconies, decks and ground floor patios of dwelling
units where the building is of Type V construction, provided there is a roof or
deck above. Sidewall sprinklers that are used to protect such areas shall be
permitted to be located such that their deflectors are within 1 inch to 6
inches below the structural members and a maximum distance of fourteen (14)
inches below the deck of the exterior balconies and decks that are constructed
of open wood joist construction.
      (34)   903.3.1.2.3 Attics. Where NFPA 13R sprinkler systems are
installed, all attic areas shall be provided with sprinkler protection in
accordance with NFPA 13.
      (35)   903.3.1.2.4 Sprinkler control valves. Where NFPA 13R sprinkler
systems are installed, sprinkler system control valves shall be installed in
accordance with NFPA 13.
      (36)   903.3.1.2.5 Bathrooms. Automatic sprinklers shall be installed in
all bathrooms, regardless of square footage, where an electrical receptacle is
installed.
      (37)   903.3.1.2.6 Accessible storage areas. Automatic sprinklers shall
be installed in all accessible storage areas.
      (38)   903.3.1.2.7 Under-stair spaces. Automatic sprinklers shall be
installed in all under-stair spaces including all under-stair closets.
      (39)   903.3.1.3 NFPA 13D sprinkler systems. Automatic fire sprinkler
systems installed in one and two-family dwellings, Group R-3 and R-4 congregate
living facilities and townhouses shall be permitted to be installed throughout
in accordance with NFPA 13D. The requirements of this section supersede the
requirements of the California Residential Code.
      (40)   903.3.1.3.1 All fire sprinkler systems installed in one- and two-
family dwellings shall be tested for leakage by undergoing a hydrostatic test
made at 200 psi for two-hour duration.
      (41)   903.3.1.3.2 Each water system supplying both domestic and fire
protection systems shall have a single indicating-type control valve, arranged
to shut off both the domestic and sprinkler systems. A separate shut-off valve
for the domestic system only shall be permitted to be installed. The location
of the control valve shall be approved by the Fire Code Official.
      (42)   903.3.1.3.4 Automatic sprinklers shall be installed in all
attached garages and other accessory structures.
      (43)   903.3.1.3.5 Automatic sprinklers shall be installed in all
accessible storage areas.
      (44)   903.3.1.3.5.1 Automatic sprinklers shall be installed in all
under-stair spaces including all closets.
      (45)   903.3.1.3.6 Local water flow alarms shall be provided on all
sprinkler systems. Local water flow alarms shall be powered from the main
kitchen refrigerator circuit. The local water flow alarm shall be clearly
audible from within the master bedroom at an audibility level of not less than
75 dBa. Where no kitchen exists in the building, the water flow alarm shall be
powered from the bathroom lighting circuit. As required by the Fire Code
Official, interior audible notification appliances or additional water flow
alarms are required to be installed at locations specified by the Fire Code
Official.
      (46)   903.3.1.3.7 Automatic fire sprinklers shall be installed to
protect all furnaces and heating system appliances.
      (47)   903.3.1.3.8 A passive purge shall be installed in the master
bathroom if served by a public water system per local water purveyor. A placard
must be posted adjacent to the fire sprinkler riser.
      (48)   903.4.1 Monitoring. Alarm, supervisory and trouble signals shall
be distinctly different and shall be automatically transmitted to an approved
central station, remote supervising station or proprietary supervising station
as defined in NFPA 72, or, when approved by the Fire Code Official, shall sound
an audible signal at a constantly attended location. The fire alarm system
installed to transmit such signals shall be considered a building fire alarm
system.
      (Exceptions remain unchanged).
      (49)   903.4.2 Alarms. One exterior approved audible appliance shall be
connected to every automatic sprinkler system in an approved location.
Sprinkler water-flow alarm devices shall be activated by water flow equivalent
to the flow of a single sprinkler of the smallest orifice size installed in the
system. Where a building fire alarm system is installed, actuation of the
automatic sprinkler system shall actuate the building fire alarm system.
Interior alarm notification appliances shall be installed as required by
Section 903.4.2.1.
      (50)   903.4.2.1 Where an automatic fire sprinkler system is installed in
a building with more than one tenant or with over one hundred (100) sprinkler
heads, audible and visible notification appliances shall be installed
throughout the building as follows:
         (a)   Audible notification appliances shall be installed so as to be
audible at fifteen (15) dBa above average sound pressure level throughout the
building.
         (b)   Visible notification appliances shall be installed in all public
and common use areas, restrooms and corridors in accordance with the spacing
requirements of NFPA 72.
         (c)   Visible notification appliances can be eliminated in normally
unoccupied portions of buildings where permitted by the Fire Code Official.
      EXCEPTION: The requirements of this section do not apply to Group R-
3 Occupancies.
      (51)   903.4.3 Floor control valves. Approved indicating control valves
and water flow switches shall be provided at the point of connection to the
riser on each floor in all buildings over one story in height and shall be
individually annunciated as approved by the Fire Code Official.
      (52)   904.13.2 System interconnection. The actuation of the fire
extinguishing system shall automatically shut down all fuel and electrical
power located under the hood, except for the electrical power to the exhaust
air supply. The fuel and electrical supply reset shall be manual.
      (53)   904.13.5.2 Extinguishing system service. Automatic fire
extinguishing systems shall be serviced by a CSLB licensed C-16 contractor or a
CSFM licensed "A" licensee at least every six months and after any activation
of the system. Inspection shall be performed by the owner at least monthly in
accordance with the currently adopted edition of NFPA 17-A. The service
contractor shall review the records of monthly inspections every six months,
and deficiencies shall be reported to the Fire Code Official. A service report
shall be forwarded to the Fire Code Official by the licensed service contractor
within 15 days after every service on the appropriate AES form.
      (54)   907.1.6 Multiple Fire Alarm Systems. Multiple fire alarm systems
within a single protected premise are not permitted, unless specifically
authorized by the Fire Code Official.
      (55)   907.2 Exception 1. The manual fire alarm box is not required for
fire alarm control units dedicated to elevator recall control.
      (56)   907.6.5 Access. Access shall be provided to each fire alarm system
component for periodic inspection, maintenance, and testing.
      (57)   907.6.6.5 Zone transmittal. Where required by the Fire Code
Official, fire alarm signals shall be transmitted by zone to the supervising
station and retransmitted by zone to the public fire service communications
center.
      (58)   907.6.6 Monitoring. Fire alarm systems, whether required by this
chapter or the California Building Code or voluntarily installed, shall be
monitored by an approved supervising station in accordance with NFPA 72 and
this section.
      (59)   907.6.6.6 Means of communication. The use of either POTS or cable
telephone lines with a digital alarm communicator transmitter shall not be
permitted.
      EXCEPTION. Where no other communications methods are available, the use
of telephone lines shall be permitted to be used on a temporary basis not to
exceed one year from the date of final acceptance test or until permitted
alternate means of communications are available.
      (60)   907.7.2 Completion documents. The following documentation shall be
provided at the time of acceptance testing for all fire alarm system
installations:
         1.   A record of completion in accordance with NFPA 72.
         2.   A contractor's statement verifying that the system has been
installed in accordance with the approved plans and specifications and has been
100% tested in accordance with NFPA 72.
         3.   A contractor's affidavit of personnel qualifications, indicating
that all personnel involved with the installation of the fire alarm system meet
the qualification requirements of the Fire Code Official.
      (61)   1205.1.1 Signing and Marking. In addition to signing and marking
requirements of the California Building Code and the California Residential
Code, the following signing and marking is required.
      (62)   1205.1.1.1 Main Panel Exterior Marking. A placard is required to
be permanently affixed to the main service disconnect panel. The placard shall
be red in color with white capital letters at least 1/2" in height and in a
non-serif font, to read "SOLAR DISCONNECT INSIDE PANEL." The placard shall be
constructed of weather-resistant, durable plastic with engraved letters, or
other approved material.
      (63)   1205.1.1.2 Circuit Disconnecting Means Marking. A permanent label
is to be affixed adjacent to the circuit breaker controlling the inverter or
other photovoltaic system electrical controller. The label shall have
contrasting color capital letters at least 3/8" in height and in a non-serif
font, to read "SOLAR DISCONNECT." The label shall be constructed of durable
adhesive material or other approved material.
      (64)   1205.1.1.3 Secondary Power Sources. Where photovoltaic systems are
interconnected to battery systems, generator backup systems, or other secondary
power systems, additional signage acceptable to the Fire Code Official shall be
required indicating the location of the secondary power source shutoff switch.
      (65)   1205.1.1.4 Installer Information. Signage acceptable to the Fire
Code Official indicating the name and emergency telephone number of the
installing contractor shall be required to be installed adjacent to the main
disconnect.
      (66)   Section 1205.2.1. Exceptions 1 and 2 of the California Fire Code
are deleted in their entirety.
      (67)   1205.2.1.4 Hip and Valley Layout. Modules shall be located no
closer than one and one-half feet (1-1/2') to a hip or valley if modules are to
be placed on both sides of a hip or valley. Where modules are located on only
one side of a hip or valley that is of equal length, the modules shall be
permitted to be placed directly adjacent to the hip or valley.
      (68)   1206.15 Signage acceptable to the Fire Code Official shall be
required indicating the location of the stationary fuel cell power system.
      (69)   3905.3. Fire Protection Systems. Fire protection systems in
occupancies regulated by this chapter shall be in accordance with Section
901.11 of this code.
      (70)   D103.2 Grade. Fire apparatus access roads shall not exceed fifteen
(15) percent in grade with a maximum side slope of five (5) percent.
      EXCEPTION: Grades steeper than fifteen (15) percent, if approved by the
Fire Code Official, shall be paved with perpendicularly grooved concrete.
   APPENDIX Q: STANDARD FIRE CONDITIONS FOR SINGLE FAMILY DWELLINGS SECTION
Q101 GENERAL.
      (71)   Q101.1 Scope. Applications for the construction or remodel of
single-family dwellings, including one- and two-family dwellings, townhomes,
modular and manufactured homes, and mobile homes outside of established mobile
home parks, shall be subject to the fire conditions in this appendix when
conditioned by the Fire Code Official.
      (72)   Q101.2 Conflicting sections. Where provisions in this appendix
conflict with other sections of this code or other appendices, the provisions
of this appendix shall prevail unless otherwise directed by the Fire Code
Official.
   SECTION Q102 ROADS.
      (73)   Q102.1 General. These conditions will be used primarily when
conditioning a subdivision or other project that requires roads. Roads
identified in this section are vehicular access to more than two (2) parcels;
more than four (4) residential units; or access to any industrial or commercial
occupancy. Includes public and private streets and lanes.
      (74)   Q102.2 Road access. (FIRE 001). Access roads shall be required for
every building when any portion of the exterior wall of the first story is
located more than one hundred fifty (150) feet from fire department access. All
roads shall be constructed to provide a minimum of two (2) ten (10) feet wide
traffic lanes with an unobstructed vertical clearance of not less than fifteen
(15) feet. The roadway surface shall provide unobstructed access to
conventional drive vehicles including sedans and fire apparatus and shall be an
all-weather surface designed to support the imposed load of fire apparatus
(75,000 pounds). Each road shall have an approved name.
      (75)   Q102.3 Roadway engineering. (FIRE 002). The grade for all roads
shall not exceed fifteen percent (15%) with a maximum side slope of five
percent (5%). Where road grades are 8 percent (8%) or less, an all-weather
aggregate base is required at a minimum or as required in other sections of the
San Benito County Code. Where road grades exceed eight percent (8%), a minimum
structural roadway surface of 0.17 feet of asphaltic concrete on 0.34 feet of
aggregate base shall be required. The length of vertical curves in roadways,
exclusive of gutters, ditches and drainage structures designed to hold or
divert water, shall not be less than one hundred (100) feet. No roadway turn
shall have a horizontal inside radius of less than fifty (50) feet. A roadway
turn radius of fifty (50) to one hundred (100) feet is required to have an
additional four (4) feet of roadway surface. A roadway turn radius of one
hundred (100) to two hundred (200) feet is required to have an additional two
(2) feet of roadway surface. Roadway turnarounds shall be required on dead-end
roads in excess of one hundred fifty (150) feet of surface length. The minimum
turning radius for a turnaround shall be forty (40) feet from the center line
of the road. If a hammerhead/T is used, the top of the "T" shall be a minimum
of sixty (60) feet in length.
      (76)   Q102.4 Dead end roads.
         (a)   Q102.4.1 Parcels less than one acre. (FIRE 003). For parcels
less than one acre, the maximum length of a dead-end road, including all dead-
end roads accessed from that dead-end road, shall not exceed eight hundred
(800) feet. All dead-end road lengths shall be measured from the edge of the
roadway surface at the intersection that begins the road to the end of the road
surface at its furthest point. Where a dead-end road serves parcels of
differing sizes, the shortest allowable length shall apply. Each dead-end road
shall have a turnaround constructed at its terminus. The minimum turning radius
for a turnaround shall be forty (40) feet from the center line of the road. If
a hammerhead/T is used, the top of the "T" shall be a minimum of sixty (60)
feet in length.
         (b)   Q102.4.2 Parcels greater than one acre and not exceeding five
acres (FIRE 004). For parcels greater than one acre and not exceeding five
acres, the maximum length of a dead-end road, including all dead-end roads
accessed from that dead-end road, shall not exceed one thousand three hundred
twenty (1,320) feet. All dead-end road lengths shall be measured from the edge
of the roadway surface at the intersection that begins the road to the end of
the road surface at its furthest point. Where a dead-end road serves parcels of
differing sizes, the shortest allowable length shall apply. Each dead-end road
shall have a turnaround constructed at its terminus. The minimum turning radius
for a turnaround shall be forty (40) feet from the center line of the road. If
a hammerhead/T is used, the top of the "T" shall be a minimum of sixty (60)
feet in length.
         (c)   Q102.4.3 Parcels greater than five acres and not exceeding
twenty (20) acres. (FIRE 005). For parcels greater than five acres and not
exceeding twenty (20) acres, the maximum length of a dead-end road, including
all dead-end roads accessed from that dead-end road, shall not exceed two
thousand six hundred forty (2,640) feet. All dead-end road lengths shall be
measured from the edge of the roadway surface at the intersection that begins
the road to the end of the road surface at its furthest point. Where a dead-end
road serves parcels of differing sizes, the shortest allowable length shall
apply. Each dead-end road shall have turnarounds at its terminus and at no
greater than one thousand three hundred twenty (1,320) foot intervals. The
minimum turning radius for a turnaround shall be forty (40) feet from the
center line of the road. If a hammerhead/T is used, the top of the "T" shall be
a minimum of sixty (60) feet in length.
         (d)   Q102.4.4 Parcels greater than twenty (20) acres. (FIRE 006). For
parcels greater than twenty (20) acres, the maximum length of a dead-end road,
including all dead-end roads accessed from that dead-end road, shall not exceed
five thousand two hundred eighty (5,280) feet. All dead-end road lengths shall
be measured from the edge of the roadway surface at the intersection that
begins the road to the end of the road surface at its furthest point. Where a
dead-end road serves parcels of differing sizes, the shortest allowable length
shall apply. Each dead-end road shall have turnarounds at its terminus and at
no greater than one thousand three hundred twenty (1,320)-foot intervals. The
minimum turning radius for a turnaround shall be forty (40) feet from the
center line of the road. If a hammerhead/T is used, the top of the "T" shall be
a minimum of sixty (60) feet in length.
      (77)   SECTION Q103 DRIVEWAYS, GATES, AND BRIDGES.
         (a)   Q103.1 Driveways. (FIRE 007). Driveway identified in this
section is defined as a vehicle access that serves up to two (2) parcels with
no more than two (2) residential units and any number on non-commercial or
industrial buildings on each parcel. Driveways shall not be less than twelve
(12) feet wide traffic lane and minimum fourteen (14) feet wide unobstructed
clearance, with an unobstructed vertical clearance of not less than fifteen
(15) feet. The grade for all driveways shall not exceed fifteen percent (15%)
with a maximum side slope of five percent (5%). Where driveway grades are eight
percent (8%) or less, an all-weather surface such as an aggregate base shall
meet minimum fire requirements. Other types of material for driveways may be
required by the code. Where the grade exceeds eight percent (8%), a minimum
structural roadway surface of 0.17 feet of asphaltic concrete on 0.34 feet of
aggregate base shall be required. The driveway surface shall be capable of
supporting the imposed load of fire apparatus forty thousand (40,000) pounds,
and be accessible by conventional-drive vehicles, including sedans. For
driveways with turns ninety (90) degrees and less, the minimum horizontal
inside radius of curvature shall be twenty-five (25) feet. For driveways with
turns greater than ninety (90) degrees, the minimum horizontal inside radius
curvature shall be twenty-eight (28) feet. For all driveway turns, an
additional surface of four (4) feet shall be added. All driveways exceeding one
hundred fifty (150) feet in length, but less than eight hundred (800) feet in
length, shall provide a turnout near the midpoint of the driveway. Where the
driveway exceeds eight hundred (800) feet, turnouts shall be provided at no
greater than four hundred (400)-foot intervals. Turnouts shall be a minimum of
twelve (12) feet wide and thirty (30) feet long with a minimum of twenty (25)
foot taper at both ends. Turnarounds shall be required on driveways in excess
of one hundred fifty (150) feet of surface length and shall be thirty (30) feet
long with a minimum twenty-five (25) foot taper at both ends. Turnarounds shall
be required on driveways in excess of one hundred fifty (150) feet of surface
length and shall be located within fifty (50) feet of the primary building. The
minimum turning radius for a turnaround shall be forty (40) feet from the
center line of the driveway. If a hammerhead/T is used, the top of the "T"
shall be a minimum of sixty (60) feet in length.
         (b)   Q103.2 Gates. (FIRE 008). All gates providing access from a road
to a driveway shall be located at least thirty (30) feet from the roadway and
shall open to allow a vehicle to stop without obstructing traffic on the road.
Gate entrances shall be at least two (2) feet wider than the width of the
traffic lane but in no case be less than fourteen (14) feet wide unobstructed
and unobstructed vertical clearance of fifteen (15) feet. Where a one-way road
with a single traffic lane provides access to a gated entrance, a forty (40)
foot turning radius shall be used. Where gates are to be locked, the
installation of a key box or other acceptable means for immediate access by
emergency equipment may be required.
         (c)   Q103.3 Bridges. (FIRE 009). All new and reconstructed bridges
shall be at least the width of the roadbed and berms, but in no case less than
twelve (12) feet wide. Bridge width on all roads exceeding tertiary standards
shall not be less than the width of the two lanes with berms. All bridges shall
be designed for HS15-44 loading and have guardrails. Appropriate signage,
including but not limited to, weight ratings or vertical clearance limitations,
and one-way road or single-lane road conditions, shall be provided at both
entrances to any bridge. One-lane bridges may be permitted if there is
unobstructed visibility across the entire bridge, and turnouts are provided at
both bridge ends. The fire authority may impose more stringent requirements for
bridges.
      (78)   SECTION Q104 SIGNS AND ADDRESSES.
         (a)   Q104.1 Road signs. (FIRE 010). All newly constructed or approved
roads and streets shall be designated by names or numbers, posted on signs
clearly visible and legible from the roadway. Size of letters, numbers and
symbols for street and road signs shall be a minimum four-inch letter height,
1/2-inch stroke, and shall be a color that is reflective and clearly contrasts
with the background color of the sign. All numerals shall be Arabic. Street and
road signs shall be non-combustible and shall be visible and legible from both
directions of vehicle travel for a distance of at least one hundred (100) feet.
Height, visibility, legibility, and orientation of street and road signs shall
be meet the provisions of the jurisdiction. This section does not require any
entity to rename or renumber existing roads or streets, nor shall a roadway
providing access only to a single commercial or industrial occupancy require
naming or numbering. Signs required under this section identifying intersecting
roads, streets and private lanes shall be placed at the intersection of those
roads, streets and/or private lanes. Signs identifying traffic access or flow
limitations (i.e., weight or vertical clearance limitations, dead-end road,
one-way road or single lane conditions, etc.) shall be placed: (a) at the
intersection preceding the traffic access limitation; and (b) not more than one
hundred (100) feet before such traffic access limitation. Road, street and
private lane signs required by this article shall be installed prior to final
acceptance of road improvements by the Fire Code Official.
         (b)   Q104.2 Addresses for buildings. (FIRE 011). All buildings shall
be issued an address in accordance with jurisdictional requirements. Each
occupancy, including detached accessory dwelling units (ADU), except accessory
buildings, shall have its own permanently posted address. When multiple
occupancies exist within a single building, each individual occupancy shall be
separately identified by its own address. Letters, numbers and symbols for
addresses shall be a minimum of four-inch (4") height, 1/2-inch stroke,
contrasting with the background color of the sign, and shall be Arabic.
Commercial Occupancy shall have a minimum of 18 inch to 24 inch sized address
numbers located at the top corner of the building on approval from the fire
official. The sign and numbers shall be reflective and made of a noncombustible
material. Address signs shall be placed at each driveway entrance and at each
driveway split. Address signs shall be and visible from both directions of
travel along the road. In all cases, the address shall be posted at the
beginning of construction and shall be maintained thereafter. Address signs
along one-way roads shall be visible from both directions of travel. Where
multiple addresses are required at a single driveway, they shall be mounted on
a single sign. Where a roadway provides access solely to a single commercial
occupancy, the address sign shall be placed at the nearest road intersection
providing access to that site. Permanent address numbers shall be posted prior
to requesting final clearance.
      (79)   SECTION Q105 WATER SUPPLY.
         (a)   Q105.1 Water systems. (FIRE 012). The provisions of this
condition shall apply when new parcels are approved by a local jurisdiction.
The emergency water system shall be available on-site prior to the completion
of road construction, where a community water system is approved, or prior to
the completion of building construction, where an individual system is
approved. Approved water systems shall be installed and made serviceable prior
to the time of construction. Water systems constructed, extended or modified to
serve a new development, a change of use, or an intensification of use, shall
be designed to meet, in addition to average daily demand, NFPA Standard 1142 or
other adopted standards. The quantity of water required pursuant to this
chapter shall be in addition to the domestic demand and shall be permanently
and immediately available.
         (b)   Q105.2 (RESERVED) (FIRE 013).
         (c)   Q105.3 Single parcel fire protection water supply. (FIRE 014).
For development of structures totaling less than three thousand (3,000) square
feet on a single parcel, the minimum fire protection water supply shall be four
thousand nine hundred (4,900) gallons. For development of structures totaling
three thousand (3,000) square feet or more on a single parcel, the minimum fire
protection water supply shall be nine thousand eight hundred (9,800) gallons.
For development of structures totaling more than ten thousand (10,000) square
feet on a single parcel, the reviewing authority may require additional fire
protection water supply. Other water supply alternatives, including ISO Rural
Class 8 mobile water systems, may be permitted by the fire authority to provide
for the same practical effect. The quantity of water required by this condition
shall be in addition to the domestic demand and shall be permanently and
immediately available.
         (d)   Q105.4 Fire hydrants and valves. (FIRE 015). A fire hydrant or
fire valve is required. The hydrant or fire valve shall be eighteen (18) inches
above grade, eight feet from flammable vegetation, no closer than four feet nor
further than twelve (12) feet from a roadway, and in a location where fire
apparatus using it will not block the roadway. The hydrant serving any building
shall be not less than fifty (50) feet and not more than one thousand (1,000)
feet by road from the building it is to serve. Minimum hydrant standards shall
include a brass head and valve with at least one 2 1/2-inch National Hose
outlet supplied by a minimum four inch main and riser. More restrictive hydrant
requirements may be applied by the Reviewing Authority. Each hydrant/valve
shall be identified with a reflectorized blue marker, with minimum dimensions
of three inches, located on the driveway address sign, non-combustible post or
fire hydrant riser. If used, the post shall be within three feet of the
hydrant/valve, with the blue marker not less than three feet or greater than
five feet above the ground, visible from the driveway. On paved roads or
driveways, reflectorized blue markers shall be permitted to be installed in
accordance with the State Fire Marshal's Guidelines for Fire Hydrant Markings
Along State Highways and Freeways, May 1988.
      (80)   SECTION Q106 SETBACKS.
      Q106.1 Setbacks. (FIRE 016). Except as permitted by the Fire Code
Official, all parcels one acre and larger shall provide a minimum thirty (30)
foot setback for new buildings and accessory buildings from all property lines
and/or the center of the road. For parcels less than one-acre, alternate fuel
modification standards or other requirements may be imposed by the Fire Code
Official to provide the same practical effect.
      (81)   SECTION Q107 VEGETATION AND DEBRIS DISPOSAL.
      Q107.1 Disposition of vegetation and debris fuels. (FIRE 017). Disposal,
including chipping, burying, or removal to a landfill site approved by the
local jurisdiction, of vegetation and debris caused by site development and
construction, road and driveway construction, and fuel modification shall be
completed prior to final clearance of the related permit.
      (82)   SECTION Q108 GREENBELTS.
      Q108.1 Greenbelts. (FIRE 018). Subdivisions and other developments, which
propose greenbelts as a part of the development plan, shall locate said
greenbelts strategically as a separation between wild land fuels and
structures. The locations shall be approved by the Fire Code Official.
      (83)   SECTION Q109 DEFENSIBLE SPACE.
         (a)   Q109.1 Standard defensible space requirements. (FIRE 019).
Defensible space requirements shall meet Section 4291 of the Public Resources
Code or the code, whichever is more restrictive. Additional or alternate fire
protection approved by the Fire Code Official may be required to provide
reasonable fire safety. Environmentally sensitive areas may require alternative
fire protection, to be determined by the Fire Code Official and other
jurisdictional authorities.
         (b)   Q109.2 (RESERVED) (FIRE 020).
      (84)   SECTION Q110 FIRE PROTECTION SYSTEMS.
         (a)   Q110.1 Residential fire sprinkler systems (Standard). (FIRE
021). The building(s) and attached structure(s) shall be fully protected with
automatic fire sprinkler system(s). Installation shall be in accordance with
the applicable NFPA standard. A minimum of four sets of plans for fire
sprinkler systems must be submitted by a California licensed C-16 contractor
and approved prior to installation. This requirement is not intended to delay
issuance of a building permit. A rough sprinkler inspection must be scheduled
by the installing contractor and completed prior to requesting a framing
inspection.
         (b)   Q110.2 (RESERVED) (FIRE 022).
         (c)   Q110.3 (RESERVED) (FIRE 023).
         (d)   Q110.4 Residential fire alarm systems. (FIRE 024). The residence
shall be fully protected with an approved household fire warning system as
defined by NFPA 72. Plans and specifications for the household fire warning
system shall be submitted by a California licensed C-10 contractor and approved
prior to installation. Household fire warning systems installed in lieu of
single-station smoke alarms required by the California Residential Code shall
meet the requirements of the California Residential Code.
         (e)   Q110.5 (RESERVED) (FIRE 025).
      (85)   APPENDIX R: ROOFS.
         (a)   SECTION R101 GENERAL.
            1.   R101.1 Scope. Applications for the construction or remodel of
any buildings shall be subject to the roofing conditions of this Appendix when
conditioned by the Fire Code Official.
            2.   R101.2 Conflicting Sections. Where provisions in this Appendix
conflict with other sections of this code or other appendices, the provisions
of this Appendix shall prevail unless otherwise directed by the Fire Code
Official.
         (b)   SECTION R102 NEW BUILDINGS.
            1.   R102.1 General. (FIRE 026). Roofing requirements for all new
buildings shall be a minimum Class "B" roof assembly as defined by the
California Building Code. EXCEPTION: Greenhouses shall be exempt from the
requirements of this section.
            2.   R102.2 Very High Hazard Severity Zones. (FIRE 027). Roofing
requirements for all new buildings in Very High Hazard Severity Zones shall be
a minimum Class "A" roof assembly as defined by the California Building Code.
            3.   R102.3 Reserved SBCO EXCLUDED.
         (c)   SECTION R103 EXISTING BUILDINGS.
            1.   R103.1 General. (FIRE 026). Roofing requirements for existing
buildings when fifty percent (50%) or more of the roof area is reroofed within
a one-year period after the issuance of a building permit shall be a minimum
Class "B" roof assembly as defined by the California Building Code. Where there
is no permit issued, this section is applicable to buildings constructed after
the effective date of this code and to buildings where fifty percent (50%) or
more of the roof area is reroofed within a one-year period after commencing
construction.
            2.   R103.2 Very High Hazard Severity Zone. (FIRE 027). Roofing
requirements for existing buildings within a very high hazard severity zone
when fifty percent (50%) or more of the roof area is reroofed within a one-year
period after the issuance of a building permit shall be a minimum Class "A"
roof assembly as defined by the California Building Code. Where there is no
permit issued, this section is applicable to such buildings constructed after
the effective date of this code and to buildings where fifty percent (50%) or
more of the roof area is reroofed within a one-year period after commencing
construction.
            3.   R103.3 RESERVED SBCO EXCLUDED.
         (d)   SECTION R104 ADDITIONS TO EXISTING BUILDINGS.
         R104.1 General. The requirements of this Appendix shall apply to all
additions to existing buildings, except that only the new portions of the roof
shall be required to meet the requirements of this Appendix.
(Ord. 822, § 2; Ord. 823, § 1; Ord. 858, §§ 1—5, 2010; Ord. 863, § 1 (part),
2010; Ord. 1,004, §§ 2, 5, 6, 2020; Ord. 1054, § 2, 2023)
§ 21.01.022 CALIFORNIA ADMINISTRATIVE CODE, 2019 EDITION, ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The California Administrative Code, 2019 Edition, as published by the
International Code Council is adopted by reference.
(Ord. 822, § 2; Ord. 1,004, § 3, 2020)
§ 21.01.023 APPLICATION.
   This code shall be the exclusive source of regulations for all new
construction and any alterations, repairs, relocations, or reconstruction of
any building or any portion thereof including any electrical, mechanical, gas,
plumbing, or fire protection equipment installed on any property or used on or
within any building.
(Ord. 822, § 2)
§ 21.01.024 CONFLICTS WITH OTHER LAWS, RULES, AND THE LIKE.
   In the event of any conflict between this code and any law, rule or
regulation of the State of California,that requirement which establishes the
higher standard of safety shall govern. Failure to comply with such standard of
safety shall be a violation of this code. Within the building and fire code
series, the building official or fire marshal shall have the ability to utilize
the most applicable code on a case by case basis as determined by the code
official.
(Ord. 822, § 2; Ord. 1,004, § 4, 2020)
ARTICLE III. APPEALS BOARD
§ 21.01.045 ESTABLISHED; PURPOSE; COMPOSITION.
   In order to determine the suitability of alternate materials and types of
construction and installations and to provide for reasonable interpretation of
the provisions of this chapter, there is established an appeals board,
consisting of five members. The Building Official shall be an ex officio member
and shall act as Secretary of the Appeals Board.
(1966 Code, § 5-17) (Ord. 501, (part))
§ 21.01.046 APPOINTMENT AND TERM OF OFFICE OF MEMBERS.
   The Appeals Board shall be appointed by the Board of Supervisors and shall
hold office at its pleasure.
(1966 Code, § 5-18) (Ord. 501, (part))
§ 21.01.047 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Appeals Board shall adopt reasonable rules and regulations for
conducting its investigations and shall render all decisions and findings in
writing to the Building Official, with the duplicate to the appellant, and may
recommend to the Board of Supervisors such amendments or new legislation as is
consistent therewith.
(1966 Code, § 5-19) (Ord. 501, (part))
ARTICLE IV. MOBILE HOME INSTALLATIONS
§ 21.01.060 PERMITS; REQUIRED; APPLICATION; EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to install a mobile home on any
parcel of land, to improve or prepare any parcel of land, for the purpose of
placing a mobile home thereon, without first obtaining a permit to do so. An
application for such a permit shall be filed with the Building Official and
there shall be attached to it a copy of the site plan and a vicinity map. A
mobile home permit application shall comply with all the requirements of
Chapter 25.25 of this county code.
   (B)   All mobile homes installed within parks operated under permit from the
state’s Department of Housing and Community Development shall be exempt from
the requirements of this article. Mobile homes owned and used by temporary farm
laborers within this county, and not used in excess of 60 days in any one
calendar year, shall also be exempt from the requirements of this article, as
they are regulated by the Labor Camp Code.
(1966 Code, § 5-20) (Ord. 501, (part))
§ 21.01.061 PERMITS; ISSUANCE; APPEAL; FINAL ACTION.
   The Building Official shall examine the application and may grant a permit
if he or she determines that it will not be detrimental to public health and
safety nor injurious to property improvements already in existence on adjacent
properties. The action of the Building Official shall be conclusive unless a
protest appeal is made to the Board of Supervisors within 20 days. If such is
made, the Building Official shall reconsider and make recommendations to the
Board of Supervisors for approval or denial, and Board of Supervisors shall
take final action.
(1966 Code, § 5-21) (Ord. 501, (part))
§ 21.01.062 PERMITS; FEES.
   At the time a permit is issued, a permit fee shall be paid to the Building
Department as indicated in
Chapter 25.25 of this code or as amended by resolution of the Board of
Supervisors.
(1966 Code, § 5-22) (Ord. 501, (part))
ARTICLE V. PRIVATE SWIMMING POOLS
§ 21.01.075 DEFINED.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PRIVATE SWIMMING POOL. An artificially created body of water, designed
specifically for swimming in, and of which the construction requires that a
building permit be obtained from the county’s Building Department.
(1966 Code, § 5-23) (Ord. 501, (part))
§ 21.01.076 ENCLOSURE REQUIRED.
   Every person who owns or is in possession of any premises, whether as
purchaser under contract, lessee, tenant or licensee, on which there is now
situated or at any time hereafter may be situated, a private swimming pool as
defined in §
21.01.075, shall maintain on the premises, completely enclosing the private
swimming pool, a fence, wall or other structure not less than four feet in
height; provided, however, that except for doors or gates, either the
horizontal or vertical dimension of any opening, holes, or gaps in such
enclosure shall not exceed four inches; and provided further, that a dwelling
house or accessory building may be used as a part of such enclosure. Any gate
or door in the enclosure shall be equipped with self-closing and self-latching
devices, designed to keep such gate or door securely closed at all times; with
the latching device made inaccessible to children from the outside.
(1966 Code, § 5-24) (Ord. 501, (part))
§ 21.01.077 EXISTING SWIMMING POOLS.
   Existing private swimming pools shall within six months of the effective
date of the ordinance codified in this article comply with the requirements of
§
21.01.078.
(1966 Code, § 5-25) (Ord. 501, (part))
§ 21.01.078 INSPECTION.
   The enclosure referred to in §
21.01.076 shall be deemed to be a structure within the meaning of the term as
it is used in the building code for the county. Final inspection and approval
of all private swimming pools hereafter constructed shall be withheld until all
requirements of §
21.01.076 have been complied with.
(1966 Code, § 5-26) (Ord. 501, (part))
ARTICLE VI. RELOCATION OF STRUCTURES
§ 21.01.090 INTENT.
   It is the intent of this article to outline the procedures for the
relocation of structures within San Benito County. A relocated structure is any
structure that had previously been erected at one location and that is being
moved to a new location.
(1966 Code, § 5-27) (Ord. 501, (part))
§ 21.01.091 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   Prior to relocating any structures in San Benito County, a permit must first
be issued by the Building Department. Permit application requirements shall be
established by the Building Official. All plans, diagrams, photos and other
required submittal information shall be submitted at the time of applying for
the relocation and building permit. Fees for the application will be set
periodically by resolution from the Board of Supervisors.
(1966 Code, § 5-28) (Ord. 501, (part))
§ 21.01.092 INITIAL INSPECTION.
   No structure shall be moved from any site to a new site within the county
until it is, first inspected by the Building Official or his or her deputy and
is approved for the relocation. The structure shall be inspected for building,
electrical, plumbing and mechanical code compliance in order to assure minimum
code conformance. If the structure does not meet minimum code requirements as
determined by the initial inspection, the structure shall not be approved for
relocation or reuse, except if a bond, letter of credit, or other guarantee
acceptable to the RMA Director is provided to the county sufficient to perform
all work necessary to remedy all code violations and a written agreement is
entered into with the property owner where the building will be located
guaranteeing all work will be performed within 12 months.
(1966 Code, § 5-29) (Ord. 501, (part); Ord. 988, § 1, 2019)
§ 21.01.093 EXTRA LEGAL LOAD PERMIT.
   The applicant shall obtain an extra legal load permit prior to moving any
structure on any road within the county. The application for the permit will be
processed by the Office of the Road Commissioner.
(1966 Code, § 5-30) (Ord. 501, (part))
§ 21.01.094 BOND REQUIREMENT.
   A cash bond or letter of credit shall be required to assure performance in
compliance with any relocation permit. If for any reason the structure is not
completed according to approved plans or the structure is abandoned, the bond
shall be used by the county to either finish the structure, or demolish and
remove the structure from the site. The bond shall be in the amount necessary
to complete all work on the relocated structure. The bond amount shall reflect
the actual cost and be determined by the Building Official, but in no event be
less than $5,000. Failure to complete structure within one year shall cause the
calling of the bond.
(1966 Code, § 5-31) (Ord. 501, (part))
ARTICLE VII. AGRICULTURAL BUILDING EXEMPTION
§ 21.01.110 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGRICULTURAL BUILDING. A structure designed and constructed to house farm
implements, hay, grain, poultry, livestock or other horticultural products.
This structure shall not be a place of human habitation or a place of
employment where agricultural products are processed, treated or packaged, nor
shall it be a place used by the public.
   AGRICULTURE. The tilling of soil, the raising of crops, horticulture,
viticulture, small livestock farming, dairying or animal husbandry, including
all uses customarily incidental thereto.
(1966 Code, § 5-32) (Ord. 501, (part); Ord. 903, § 1 (part), 2012)
§ 21.01.111 EXEMPTION REQUIREMENTS.
   The construction, repairing and remodeling of agricultural buildings or
structures may be exempt from the requirement to pay impact fees if the
following requirements are all met:
   (A)   The buildings or structures for the above mentioned uses must be
located only on parcels of land greater than five acres; and
   (B)   There must be an existing agricultural use on the property or the site
must have obvious potential to be developed with an agricultural use for which
the building will be needed.
(1966 Code, § 5-33) (Ord. 501, (part); Ord. 903, § 1 (part), 2012)
§ 21.01.112 OPTIONAL IMPACT FEE EXEMPTION.
   (A)   The Board of Supervisors may reduce, defer, or waive impact fees for
projects deemed by the Board to be agricultural in nature but which fail to
qualify for an agricultural exemption of impact fees pursuant to §
21.01.111, above. The Board may reduce, defer, or waive impact fees
individually or collectively.
   (B)   In order for the Board of Supervisors to reduce, defer, or waive
impact fees, the Board must find that the construction and addition of
buildings to the subject property, and the use that will be conducted within
said structures will have a minimal impact on County Fire, Sheriff, traffic,
schools, or other impact fee designation for which the reduction, deferment, or
waiver is requested.
   (C)   Impact fees associated within an area adopted as a “benefit area” by
the Board of Supervisors may not be reduced, deferred, or waived.
(1966 Code, § 5-34) (Ord. 501, (part); Ord. 903, § 1 (part), 2012)
§ 21.01.113 USE NOT EXEMPT.
   Buildings constructed without permits are not eligible for any impact fee
exemption or reduction.
(1966 Code, § 5-35) (Ord. 501, (part); Ord. 903, § 1 (part), 2012)
§ 21.01.114 EXEMPTION APPLICATION.
   (A)   An applicant may make application for impact fee waiver for an
agricultural building by completing an application available in the Planning
Department along with the building permit application on which he or she shall
attest that he or she is in compliance with the exemption requirements listed
above.
   (B)   The Building Official or Planning Director shall determine if a
building is to be exempted from impact fees for agricultural reasons. An
exemption may then be issued by the Building Official or Planning Director.
   (C)   An exemption for an agricultural related building does not exempt the
building from obtaining all necessary building permits.
   (D)   Failure by the applicant to comply with the requirements of this
article, in the opinion of the Building Official or Planning Director, shall be
cause for denial of the exemption and the applicant will be required to pay
full impact fees.
   (E)   Applications for impact fee exemption and the optional impact fee
exemption shall be subject to a fee as established by the Board of Supervisors
by resolution or ordinance from time to time.
(1966 Code, § 5-36) (Ord. 501, (part); Ord. 903, § 1 (part), 2012)
§ 21.01.115 INDEMNIFICATION.
   Pursuant to Chapter 19.41 of the San Benito County Code, the county shall
require, as a prerequisite for approval or as part of the application process,
an applicant for any approval(s) to agree in writing to defend, indemnify, and
hold harmless the county and its officers, agents, employees, boards and
commissions from any claim, action, litigation, or proceeding brought by any
person or entity other than the applicant (“third party”) against the county or
its officers, agents, employees, boards or commissions that arises from or is
in any way related to an approval(s), including, but not limited to claims,
actions, litigation, or proceedings to attack, set aside, void, or annul an
approval(s).
(Ord. 903, § 1 (part), 2012)
§ 21.01.116 CONVERSION TO NON-AGRICULTURAL USE.
   If the structure is used for any purpose not included within the definition
of an agricultural exempt building, then full impact fees will be required as
set forth by the San Benito County Code at the amount established when the
structure is converted to a non-exempt use.
(Ord. 903, § 1 (part), 2012)
§ 21.01.117 APPEAL PROCESS.
   An applicant may appeal the decision as to qualification for an agricultural
exemption to the county’s Planning Commission through the process outlined in
Chapter 25.47 of the San Benito County Code.
(1966 Code, § 5-37) (Ord 501, (part); Ord. 903, § 1 (part), 2012)
ARTICLE VIII. AREAS FOR THE STORAGE AND COLLECTION OF RECYCLABLE MATERIALS
§ 21.01.130 PURPOSE.
   (A)   Cities and counties must divert 50% of all solid waste by January 1,
2000, through source reduction, recycling and composting activities.
   (B)   Diverting 50% of all solid waste requires the participation of the
residential, commercial, industrial and public sectors.
   (C)   The lack of adequate areas for storing and collecting recyclable
materials is a significant impediment to diverting solid waste. This impediment
constitutes an urgent need for state and local agencies to address. This
chapter has been developed to meet that need.
(1966 Code, § 5-38) (Ord. 638, § 2(part))
§ 21.01.131 DEFINITIONS.
   The following definitions shall apply to the language contained in this
chapter.
   DEVELOPMENT PROJECT. Any of the following:
      (1)   A project for which a building permit is required for:
         (a)   A commercial, industrial or institutional building;
         (b)   A marina;
         (c)   A residential building having five or more living units, where
solid waste is generated or stored and from where solid waste is collected; and
         (d)   Any residential project where solid waste is generated or stored
and from where solid waste is collected in a common location serving five or
more living units.
      (2)   A new public facility where solid waste is generated or stored and
from where solid waste is collected and any improvements for areas of a public
facility used for storing and collecting solid waste.
   DEVELOPMENT PROJECT FOR WHICH A BUILDING PERMIT IS REQUIRED. A development
project for which a building permit is required is, at a minimum:
      (1)   All new development projects;
      (2)   Any single alteration of an existing development project requiring
a building permit; and
      (3)   Any sum total of alterations requiring a building permit to an
existing development project which alterations are conducted within a 12-month
period.
   RECYCLING AREA (AREA FOR RECYCLING). Space allocation for storage and
collection of recyclable materials.
(1966 Code, § 5-39) (Ord. 638, § 2(part))
§ 21.01.132 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Any new development project for which an application for a building
permit is submitted on or after September 1, 1993, shall include adequate,
accessible and convenient areas for storing and collecting recyclable
materials.
   (B)   Any improvements for areas of a public facility used for storing and
collecting solid waste shall include adequate, accessible and convenient areas
for collecting and loading recyclable materials.
   (C)   Any project for which an application for a building permit is
submitted on or after September 1, 1993, for modifications that meet one or
both of the conditions below shall include adequate, accessible and convenient
areas for storing and collecting recyclable materials:
      (1)   Modification to the project adds 30% or more to the existing floor
area; or
      (2)   The price of modification exceeds 10% of the then-current assessed
value of the subject parcel.
   (D)   No building permit shall be issued until the requirements of this
article are satisfied.
(1966 Code, § 5-40) (Ord. 638, § 2(part))
§ 21.01.133 DESIGN STANDARDS.
   (A)   Areas for recycling shall be adequate in capacity, number and
distribution to serve the development.
   (B)   Dimensions of the recycling area shall accommodate containers
consistent with current methods of collection in the area in which the
development is to be located.
   (C)   An adequate number of bins or containers to allow for the storage and
collection of recyclable materials generated by the development should be
located within the recycling areas of development.
   (D)   The design and construction of recycling areas shall be compatible
with surrounding land uses.
   (E)   Recycling areas shall be secured to prevent the theft of recyclable
materials by unauthorized persons, while allowing authorized persons access for
disposal of materials.
   (F)   Recycling areas or the bins or containers placed therein must provide
protection against adverse environmental conditions which might render the
collected materials unmarketable.
   (G)   Driveways or travel aisles shall provide unobstructed access for
collection vehicles and personnel and provide at least the minimum clearance
required by the collection methods and vehicles utilized by the hauler in the
area in which the development exists.
   (H)   A sign clearly identifying all recycling and solid waste storage and
collection areas and the materials accepted therein shall be posted adjacent to
all points of access to the recycling areas.
   (I)   Residential developers and property owners are encouraged to include
recycling areas or systems within the residence.
(1966 Code, § 5-41) (Ord. 638, § 2(part))
§ 21.01.134 LOCATION.
   (A)   Recycling areas shall not be located in any area required by any
regulations or law to be constructed or maintained as unencumbered, according
to fire and other applicable building and/or public safety laws.
   (B)   Any recycling area(s) shall be located so they are at least as
convenient as the location(s) where solid waste is stored and collected.
Whenever feasible, areas for storage and collection of recyclable materials
should be adjacent to solid waste collection areas.
   (C)   Each recycling area within a multi-family residential development
shall be no greater than 250 feet from each living unit.
(1966 Code, § 5-42) (Ord. 638, § 2(part))
§ 21.01.135 DEFERRAL OF CONSTRUCTION.
   No recycling area shall be required to be constructed until such time that
the development will be served by a recycling program. In the event that such a
recycling program is not available to a development project, construction of
the recycling area may be deferred. In the event the applicant for a building
permit for a development project decides to defer construction, the owner shall
submit plans for the recycling area to the Building Department along with
construction cost estimates, at the time of application for a building permit.
Upon approval of the plans and of the construction cost estimate, county will
deem this article has been complied with, upon the payment of cash in the
amount of 150% of the approved construction cost estimate and the execution of
a deferred improvement agreement in a form approved by the County Counsel. The
agreement shall be recorded and shall insure the construction of recycling
area, not later than three years from the date of issuance of the building
permit. Deferral may be extended for additional three-year periods if before
the expiration of the three-year deferral period, the owner(s) of the
development submit new construction cost estimates and pay 150% of the new
estimate, provided of course that the recycling program still is not available.
The purpose of the 150% cash payment shall be to insure construction of the
recycling area when a recycling program serves the development. The cash shall
be returned upon satisfactory proof the recycling area has been properly
constructed. All unused interest accruing to the cash deposit shall be retained
by county to be used solely to support the county recycling program.
(1966 Code, § 5-43) (Ord. 638, § 2(part))
§ 21.01.136 HEALTH DEPARTMENT INSPECTION.
   The issuance of a building permit will be conditioned on the applicant
granting the Health Department access to the recycling areas outside of any
dwelling unit at any time without prior notice during the regular working hours
of the Health Department pursuant to the requirements of the San Benito County
Code Solid Waste Ordinance and pursuant to state and federal constitutional
limitations.
(1966 Code, § 5-44) (Ord. 638, § 2(part))
ARTICLE IX. ENFORCEMENT
§ 21.01.150 ENFORCEMENT.
   The county’s Building Official shall have the authority to administer and
enforce all the regulations of the chapter.
(1966 Code, § 5-45) (Ord. 501, (part); Ord. 570, § 7(part); Ord. 638, § 1
(part))
§ 21.01.151 VIOLATION OF CHAPTER; CRIMINAL.
   Any person, firm or corporation violating any part of this chapter shall be
deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished
as provided in
Chapter 1.03 of this code.
(1966 Code, § 5-46) (Ord. 501, (part); Ord. 570, § 7(part); Ord. 638, § 1
(part))
§ 21.01.152 VIOLATION OF CHAPTER; PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   Any violation of this chapter is unlawful and a public nuisance and shall be
abated, eliminated and enjoined as provided in
Chapter 1.03 of this code.
(1966 Code, § 5-47) (Ord. 570, § 7(part); Ord. 638, § 1(part))
§ 21.01.153 REMEDIES CUMULATIVE.
   Except as otherwise provided by law, the remedies provided in this chapter
are cumulative and not exclusive. Nothing in this chapter is intended, or shall
be deemed or construed, to limit or impair the ability of the county, or any of
its officers, agents or employees, to take any administrative or judicial
action, otherwise authorized by law, to abate any public nuisance.
Chapter 1.03 of this code is hereby incorporated by reference as though its
provisions were fully set forth herein.
(1966 Code, § 5-48) (Ord. 570, § 7(part); Ord. 638, § 1(part))
§ 21.01.154 VALIDITY.
   If any section, sentence or phrase of this chapter is for any reason held by
a court to be invalid, the decision shall not affect the validity of the
remaining portions of this chapter.
(1966 Code, § 5-49) (Ord. 501, (part); Ord. 570, § 7(part); Ord. 638, § 1
(part))
ARTICLE X. SMALL RESIDENTIAL ROOFTOP SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM REVIEW PROCESS
§ 21.01.170 TITLE AND AUTHORITY.
   This article is and may be cited as the “Small Residential Rooftop Solar
Energy System Review Process.” The article is enacted pursuant to Cal. Gov’t
Code § 65850.5 as amended by AB 2188.
(Ord. 940, § II(part), 2015)
§ 21.01.171 DEFINITIONS.
   The following words and phrases as used in this chapter are defined as
follows:
   BUILDING DEPARTMENT. The County of San Benito Building Division of the
Resource Management Agency.
   BUILDING OFFICIAL. The individual vested with the responsibility for
overseeing and enforcing applicable life safety codes, and building codes,
laws, and statutes in San Benito County, as set forth in state law and by
County Code, and personnel classification. Whenever the term BUILDING OFFICIAL
or BUILDING INSPECTOR is used in the code, it means the chief Building
Official.
   COUNTY. The County of San Benito.
   ELECTRONIC SUBMITTAL. The utilization of one or more of the following:
email; internet; or facsimile.
   SMALL RESIDENTIAL ROOFTOP SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM. All of the following:
      (1)   A solar energy system that is no larger than ten kilowatts
alternating current nameplate rating or 30 kilowatts thermal.
      (2)   A solar energy system that conforms to all applicable state fire,
structural, electrical, and other building codes as adopted or amended by the
county and Cal. Civil Code § 714(c)(iii), as such section or subdivision may be
amended, renumbered, or redesignated from time to time.
      (3)   A solar energy system that is installed on a single or duplex
family dwelling.
      (4)   A solar panel or module array that does not exceed the maximum
legal building height as defined by the authority having jurisdiction.
   SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM. The same meaning set forth in Cal. Civil Code § 801.5
(a)(1) and (2), as such section or subdivision may be amended, renumbered, or
redesignated from time to time.
   SPECIFIC, ADVERSE IMPACT. A significant, quantifiable, direct, and
unavoidable impact, based on objective, identified, and written public health
or safety  standards, policies, or conditions as they existed on the date the
application was deemed complete.
(Ord. 940, § II(part), 2015)
§ 21.01.172 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this article is to adopt an expedited, streamlined solar
permitting process that complies with the Solar Rights Act and AB 2188 (Chapter
521, Statutes 2014) to achieve timely and cost-effective installations of small
residential rooftop solar energy systems. The county through this article
encourages the use of solar systems by removing barriers and expanding the
ability of property owners to install solar energy systems. This article allows
the county to achieve these goals while protecting the public health and
safety.
(Ord. 940, § II(part), 2015)
§ 21.01.173 APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   This article applies to the permitting of all small residential
rooftop solar energy systems in the county.
   (B)   Small residential rooftop solar energy systems legally established or
permitted prior to the effective date of this article are not subject to the
requirements of this article unless physical modifications or alterations are
undertaken that materially change the size, type, or components of a small
rooftop energy system in such a way as to require new permitting. Routine
operation and maintenance or like, in-kind replacements shall not require a
permit.
(Ord. 940, § II(part), 2015)
§ 21.01.174 SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   All solar energy systems shall meet applicable health and safety
standards, regulations, codes, and requirements imposed by the state and the
county.
   (B)   Solar energy systems for heating water in single-family residences and
for heating water in commercial or swimming pool applications shall be
certified by an accredited listing agency as defined by the California Plumbing
and Mechanical Code.
   (C)   Solar energy systems for producing electricity shall meet all
applicable safety and performance standards established by the California
Electrical Code, the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, and
accredited testing laboratories such as Underwriters Laboratories and, where
applicable, rules of the Public Utilities Commission regarding safety and
reliability.
(Ord. 940, § II(part), 2015)
§ 21.01.175 DUTIES OF THE BUILDING DEPARTMENT AND BUILDING OFFICIAL.
   (A)   All documents required for the submission of an expedited solar energy
system application shall be made available on the publicly accessible county
website.
   (B)   Electronic submittal of the required permit application and documents
by email or facsimile shall be made available to all small residential rooftop
solar energy system permit applicants.
   (C)   Electronic signatures shall be accepted by the county on all
electronic submittals in lieu of a wet signature.
   (D)   Cal. Gov’t Code § 65850.5 provides that in developing an expedited
permitting process, the city, county, or city and county shall adopt a
checklist of all requirements with which small rooftop solar energy systems
shall comply to be eligible for expedited review. The Building Official shall
adopt a standard plan and checklist of all requirements with which small
residential rooftop solar energy systems shall comply to be eligible for
expedited review. The checklist shall be published on the county’s internet
website. The process and checklist shall substantially conform to the
California Solar Permitting Guidebook.
   (E)   The Building Official will have the authority to revise the process,
standard plan(s) and checklist in substantial conformance to such revisions as
may be made periodically to the California Solar Permitting Guidebook.
   (F)   The Board of Supervisors may by ordinance, modify the checklists and
standards found in the California Solar Permitting Guidebook due to unique
climatic, geological, seismological, or topographical conditions in the county.
   (G)   The Board of Supervisors may establish fees for the permitting of
small residential rooftop solar energy systems, provided all such fees comply
with Cal. Gov’t Code §§ 65850.55, 66015, 66016 and Cal. Health and Safety Code
§ 17951.
(Ord. 940, § II(part), 2015)
§ 21.01.176 APPLICATION; PERMIT; INSPECTION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Prior to submitting an application, the applicant shall:
      (1)   Verify satisfaction through the use of standard engineering
evaluation techniques that the support structure for the small residential
rooftop solar energy system is stable and adequate to transfer all wind,
seismic, and dead and live loads associated with the system to the building
foundation; and
      (2)   At the applicant’s cost, using standard electrical inspection
techniques, verify that the existing electrical system, including existing
line, load, ground and bonding wiring as well as main panel and subpanel sizes,
are adequately sized, based on the existing electrical system’s current use, to
carry all new photovoltaic electrical loads.
   (B)   For a project complying with the checklist for a small residential
rooftop solar energy system the applicant may submit the permit application and
associated documentation to the county’s building division by personal, mailed,
or electronic submittal, together with the required permit processing and
inspection fees.
   (C)   An application that satisfies the information requirements in the
checklist, as determined by the Building Official, shall be deemed complete.
Upon receipt of an incomplete application, the Building Official shall issue a
written correction notice detailing all deficiencies in the application and any
additional information required to be eligible for expedited permit issuance.
   (D)   Upon confirmation by the Building Official of the application and
supporting documentation being complete and meeting the requirements of the
checklist, the Building Official shall administratively approve the application
and issue all required permits and/or authorizations, except as further set
forth below. Such approval does not authorize an applicant to connect the small
residential rooftop energy system to the local utility provider’s electricity
grid. The applicant is responsible for obtaining such approval or permission
from the local utility provider after requesting and obtaining a final
inspection and receiving final approval on the inspection record.
   (E)   The Building Official's review shall be limited to whether the
proposed small residential rooftop solar energy system meets all health and
safety requirements of local, state, and federal law. The requirements of local
law shall be limited to those standards and regulations necessary to ensure
that the solar energy system will not have a specific, adverse impact upon the
public health or safety.
   (F)   The Building Official may require an applicant to apply for a use
permit, if the Building Official finds, based on substantial evidence, that the
small residential rooftop solar energy system could have a specific, adverse
impact upon the public health and safety. Such decision, if made, may be
appealed to the San Benito County Planning Commission.
   (G)   If a use permit is required, the application for the use permit may be
denied if the appropriate authority as designed in the applicable county zoning
ordinance makes written findings based upon substantial evidence in the record
that the proposed installation would have a specific, adverse impact upon the
public health or safety, and there is no feasible method to satisfactorily
mitigate or avoid the specific, adverse impact. Such findings shall include the
basis for the rejection of potential feasible alternatives of preventing the
adverse impact. Such decisions may be appealed to the County Planning
Commission, or if the Planning Commission was the appropriate authority, such
decisions may be appealed to the Board of Supervisors.
      (1)   Any condition imposed on an application to install a solar energy
system shall be designed to mitigation the specific, adverse impact upon the
public health and safety at the lowest possible cost.
      (2)   A feasible method to satisfactorily mitigate or avoid the specific,
adverse impact includes, but is not limited to, any cost-effective method,
condition, or mitigation imposed by the county on another similarly situated
application in a prior successful application for a permit. The county shall
use its best efforts to ensure that the selected method, condition, or
mitigation meets the conditions of Cal. Civil Code § 714(s)(1)(A) and (B).
   (H)   The county shall not withhold issuance based on the approval of an
association, as defined in Cal. Civil Code § 4080.
   (I)   For a small residential rooftop solar energy system eligible for
expedited review, only one inspection shall be required, which shall be done in
a timely manner. If a fire inspection is required, that inspection shall be
perfonned by the local fire authority prior to the inspection by the Building
Official. If a small residential rooftop solar energy system fails inspection,
a subsequent inspection is authorized; however the subsequent inspection need
not conform to the requirements of this division. Also, subsequent inspections,
after the first, shall be charged a reasonable reinspection fee as determined
by the Building Official in accordance with the currently adopted fee schedule.
(Ord. 940, § II(part), 2015)
ARTICLE XI. EXPEDITED PERMIT PROCESS FOR ELECTRIC VEHICLE CHARGING STATIONS
§ 21.01.190 FINDINGS AND PURPOSE.
   (A)   Cal. Gov’t Code § 65850.7 provides that it is the policy of the state
to promote and encourage the installation and use of electric vehicle charging
stations by limiting obstacles to their use and by not unreasonably restricting
the ability of homeowners and agricultural and business concerns to install
electric vehicle charging stations by minimizing the permitting costs of
systems;
   (B)   The purpose of this chapter is to adopt an expedited, streamlined
process for electric vehicle charging stations that complies with Assembly Bill
No. 1236 (Chapter 598, Statutes 2015) to achieve timely and cost-effective
installations of electric vehicle charging stations while protecting public
health and safety;
   (C)   This chapter shall apply to the permitting of all-electric vehicle
charging stations in the unincorporated area of the county. Electric vehicle
charging stations authorized before the effective date of this chapter are not
subject to the requirements set forth herein unless physical modifications or
alterations are undertaken that materially change the size, type, or components
of an electric vehicle charging station in such a way as to require new
permitting. Routine operation and maintenance or like-kind replacements shall
not require a permit.
(Ord. 1050, 2022)
§ 21.01.191 AUTHORITY.
   This chapter is adopted pursuant to the authority granted by Article XI, § 7
of the California Constitution and Cal. Gov’t Code § 65850.7.
(Ord. 1050, 2022)
§ 21.01.192 DEFINITIONS.
   The following words and phrases, whenever used in this chapter, shall be
construed as hereafter set out unless it shall be apparent from the context
that they have a different meaning:
   A FEASIBLE METHOD TO SATISFACTORILY MITIGATE OR AVOID THE SPECIFIC ADVERSE
IMPACT. Includes, but is not limited to, any cost-effective method, condition,
or mitigation imposed by a city, county, or city and county on another
similarly situated application in a prior successful application for a permit.
   ASSOCIATION. A nonprofit corporation or unincorporated association created
for the purpose of managing a common interest development.
   BUILDING DEPARTMENT. The county Building Division of the Resource Management
Agency.
   BUILDING OFFICIAL. The individual vested with the responsibility of
overseeing and enforcing applicable life safety codes and building codes, laws,
and statutes in the county, as outlined in state law by county code and
personnel classification. Whenever BUILDING OFFICIAL or BUILDING INSPECTOR is
used in this code, it means the Chief Building Official.
   COUNTY. The County of San Benito.
   ELECTRONIC SUBMITTAL. The utilization of one or more of the following:
email, internet, or facsimile.
   ELECTRIC VEHICLE CHARGING STATION or CHARGING STATION. Any level of electric
vehicle supply equipment station that is designed and built in compliance with
Article 625 of the California Electrical Code as it reads on the effective date
of this chapter and delivers electricity from a source outside an electric
vehicle into a plug-in electric vehicle.
   SPECIFIC ADVERSE IMPACT. A significant, quantifiable, direct, and
unavoidable impact based on objective, identified, and written public health or
safety standards, policies, or conditions as they existed on the date the
application was deemed complete.
(Ord. 1050, 2022)
§ 21.01.193 EXPEDITED PERMITTING PROCESS.
   Consistent with Cal. Gov’t Code § 65850.7, the Building Official shall
develop and implement an expedited, streamlined permitting process for electric
vehicle charging stations, and adopt a checklist of all requirements with which
electric vehicle charging stations shall comply in order to be eligible for
expedited review. The expedited streamlined permitting process and checklist
may refer to the recommendations in the most current version of the "Plug-in
Electric Vehicle Infrastructure Permitting Checklist" of the "Zero-emission
Vehicles in California: Community Readiness Guidebook" as published by the
Governor's Office of Planning and Research. All documents required for
submitting an application, including the county's adopted checklist, shall be
made available on the county's publicly accessible website.
(Ord. 1050, 2022)
§ 21.01.194 PERMIT APPLICATION PROCESSING.
   (A)   Prior to submitting an application for processing, an applicant shall
verify that the installation of an electric vehicle charging station will not
have specific, adverse impact on public health and safety and building
occupants. Verification by the applicant includes but is not limited to
electrical system capacity and loads; electrical system wiring, bonding, and
overcurrent protection; building infrastructure affected by charging station
equipment and associated conduits; and areas of charging station equipment and
vehicle parking.
   (B)   A permit application that satisfies the information requirements in
the county's adopted checklist shall be deemed complete and be promptly
processed. Upon confirmation by the Building Official that the permit
application and supporting documents meet the requirements of the county's
adopted checklist and are consistent with all applicable laws and health and
safety standards, the Building Official shall, consistent with Cal. Gov’t Code
§ 65850.7, approve the application and issue all necessary county permits. Such
approval does not authorize an applicant to energize or utilize the electric
vehicle charging station until approval is granted by the county. If the
Building Official determines that the permit application is incomplete, they
shall issue a written notice to the applicant detailing all deficiencies in the
application and any additional information required to be eligible for
expedited permit issuance.
   (C)   Consistent with Cal. Gov’t Code § 65850.7, the Building Official shall
allow for in-person, mailed, or electronic submittal of permit applications
covered by this section and associated supporting documents. In accepting such
permit applications, the Building Official shall also accept electronic
signatures on all forms, applications, and other documentation in lieu of a wet
signature by an applicant.
   (D)   All fees prescribed for permitting electric vehicle charging systems
shall comply with Cal. Gov’t Code §§ 65850.55 and 66016, and Cal. Health Safety
Code § 17951, as applicable.
(Ord. 1050, 2022)
§ 21.01.195 TECHNICAL REVIEW.
   (A)   It is the intent of this chapter to encourage the installation of
electric vehicle charging stations by removing obstacles to permitting charging
stations so long as the action does not supersede the Building Official's
authority to address higher-priority life safety situations. If the Building
Official makes a written finding based on substantial evidence that the
proposed electric vehicle charging station could have a specific adverse impact
upon public health or safety, as defined in this chapter, and that there is no
feasible method to satisfactorily mitigate or avoid the specific, adverse
impact, then the county may require the applicant to apply for a use permit.
   (B)   In the technical review of a charging station consistent with Cal.
Gov’t Code § 65850.7, the Building Official shall not condition the approval
for any electric vehicle charging station permit on the approval of such a
system by an association, as that term is defined in §
21.01.192 and Cal. Civil Code § 4080.
   (C)   Any conditions imposed on an application to install an electric
vehicle charging station shall be designed to mitigate the specific, adverse
impact upon public health or safety at the lowest cost possible.
   (D)   The decision of the Building Official to approve or deny the
application to install an electric vehicle charging station may be appealed to
the county Planning Commission.
(Ord. 1050, 2022)
§ 21.01.196 ELECTRIC VEHICLE CHARGING STATION INSTALLATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Electric vehicle charging stations shall meet all applicable safety
and performance standards established by the Cal. Electrical Code, the Society
of Automotive Engineers, the National Electrical Manufacturers Association, and
accredited testing laboratories such as Underwriters Laboratories and, where
applicable, the rules of the Public Utilities Commission regarding safety and
reliability.
   (B)   Installation of electric vehicle charging stations and associated
wiring, bonding, disconnecting means, and overcurrent protective devices shall
meet or exceed the requirements of Article 625 and all applicable provisions of
the California Electrical Code and deliver electricity from a source outside an
electric vehicle into a plug-in electrical device.
   (C)   Installation of electric vehicle charging stations shall be
incorporated into the load calculations of all new or existing electrical
services and shall meet the requirements of the California Electrical Code.
Electric vehicle charging equipment shall be considered a continuous load.
   (D)   Anchorage of either floor-mounted or wall-mounted electric vehicle
charging stations shall meet the requirements of the Cal. Building or
Residential Code as applicable per occupancy, and the provisions of the
manufacturer's installation instructions. Mounting of charging stations shall
not adversely affect building elements.
(Ord. 1050, 2022)
§ 21.01.197 CALIFORNIA ENVIRONMENTAL QUALITY ACT (CEQA) EXEMPTION.
   The Board of Supervisors finds that the issuance of an electric vehicle
charging station in accordance with this chapter is exempt from environmental
review pursuant to §§ 15301, 15303, and 15304 of the California Environmental
Quality Act (CEQA), found in Title 14 of the Cal. Code of Regulations, as
suggested in the “Zero-emission Vehicles in California: Community Readiness
Guidebook,” adopted by the Governor's Office of Planning and Research. An
expedited permitting process for electric vehicle charging stations will,
consistent with CEQA § 15301, result in minor alterations to existing
facilities involving negligible or no expansion of use beyond that which is
presently existing; consistent with CEQA §§ 153030 and 15304, result in a
limited number of new, small structures, and consist of minor public or private
alterations in the condition of land.
(Ord. 1050, 2022)
CHAPTER 21.03: AFFORDABLE HOUSING REGULATIONS
Section
   
21.03.001   Findings
   
21.03.002   Purpose
   
21.03.003   Definitions
   
21.03.004   Development requiring inclusionary contribution
   
21.03.005   Inclusionary requirements
   
21.03.006   On-site affordable units
   
21.03.007   Off-site affordable units
   
21.03.008   In-lieu payment and other alternative compliance mechanisms
   
21.03.009   Development project approval
   
21.03.010   Occupancy and continuing availability of units
   
21.03.011   Reserved
   
21.03.012   Collection and use of in- lieu fees
   
21.03.013   Density bonus and incentives
   
21.03.014   Affordable-by-design standards
   
21.03.015   Development standards
   
21.03.016   Additional standards
   
21.03.017   Enforcement
   
21.03.018   Monitoring
§ 21.03.001 FINDINGS.
   (A)   San Benito County goals and general plan.
      (1)   The Board of Supervisors finds that a decent home and suitable
living environment for all is a priority of the highest order; this priority
conforms to state and federal policies. A key goal of the county is to achieve
a balanced community with housing available for persons of all economic levels,
with priority given to those persons currently residing or working within the
county.
      (2)   The Board of Supervisors finds there is an inadequate supply of
housing in San Benito County that is affordable to very low, low, and moderate-
income households. Federal and state housing finance and subsidy programs are
not sufficient in themselves to meet that need.
      (3)   The Board of Supervisors finds that the cost of housing in new
developments has increased and will continue to perpetuate this housing
shortage. Further, land for residential development in the county is limited,
and the amount of land which can be used for development of housing for very
low, low, and moderate-income households is being depleted by development of
high cost housing.
      (4)   The Board of Supervisors finds that the provision of housing
affordable to very low, low, and moderate-income households is a county-wide
responsibility, and the provision of such housing is a goal of the housing
element of the county general plan. A county-wide inclusionary housing program
will assist in alleviating the use of available residential land solely for the
benefit of households that are able to afford market rate housing because such
market rate development will be required to contribute to the provision of
affordable housing for the entire San Benito community.
   (B)   Provide for workforce.
      (1)   The Board of Supervisors finds that the housing shortage for
persons of very low, low, and moderate-income is detrimental to the public
health, safety and welfare, and particularly finds that provision of very low,
low, and moderate-income housing is fundamental to the maintenance of an
adequate, growing workforce and market place for the local economy, as well as
to provide housing for additional employees whose jobs serve the increasing
population living in new market-rate housing.
      (2)   The Board of Supervisors acknowledges that if very low, low, and
moderate income workers cannot find housing in the county, then employers will
have difficulty in securing a labor force; and employees will be forced to
commute. Employee commutes use limited gasoline resources and increase air
pollution.
   (C)   Benefit to the county. The Board of Supervisors finds that a county-
wide affordable housing program will benefit the county as a whole. Each
property that contributes to inclusionary housing augments the housing mix,
increases the supply of housing for all economic segments of the community, and
thereby provides for a balanced community, which is deemed to be in the public
interest.
   (D)   Resale restrictions/shared equity recapture.
      (1)   The Board of Supervisors finds that the effect of an affordable
housing program is severely diminished if it benefits only the first occupants
of very low, low, and moderate-income housing, and affordable for-sale and
rental units are resold at market prices. Therefore, the Board of Supervisors
recognizes that resale control, to ensure the continuing availability of
affordable units to extremely low, very low, low, and moderate-income
households, is a necessary consideration in order to prevent undermining of the
credibility of the whole program, particularly because of the loss of the unit
itself as an affordable for-sale and rental unit.
      (2)   If the project site is receiving state- administered funding and
the State Housing & Community Development Agency does not allow resale
restriction requirements, the project must develop a supplemental requirement
to maintain the affordability of the unit and recapture any loan funding.
   (E)   Public purpose. The Board of Supervisors finds that public housing
programs and housing subsidy programs can meet only a small portion of the need
for very low, low, and moderate-income housing. The vast majority of housing
units has been and will continue to be produced by the private housing
industry. This industry has the knowledge and ability to produce housing
affordable to extremely low, very low, low, and moderate-income households
given supportive government policies, including incentives and public
investment as appropriate. Therefore, the Board of Supervisors finds it is a
public purpose of the county to seek assistance and cooperation from the
private sector and non-profit agencies in making available an adequate supply
of housing for persons of all economic segments of the community.
   (F)   Benefits of the application of this chapter. Application of this
chapter may benefit the public through increased housing opportunities in all
areas of the county, an increased supply of very low, low, and moderate-income
housing, and an increased availability of funds for very low, low, and
moderate-income housing projects.
   (G)   Collection of in-lieu fees. Fees can be paid in lieu of building units
and will be based on an in-lieu fee study. The fees permitted by this chapter
will be fair and effective because the fees will be imposed at a later date
after an in-lieu fee study is performed. The Board of Supervisors finds that
the fees required or permitted by this chapter will be appropriate and
permissible.
      (1)   The fee amount will be based on the amount necessary to construct
or subsidize an affordable unit or affordable units as called for by this
chapter, so that when a developer applies to pay an in-lieu fee, funds will be
available to reach the county’s overall affordability target, without excessive
payments and without setting varying fee standards on a case-by-case basis;
      (2)   The fees collected will be used in a specific time frame for the
provision of extremely low, very low, low, and/or moderate-income housing;
      (3)   Fees will be adjusted annually based on the Construction Cost
Index. A new in-lieu study will be conducted every five years.
   (H)   Other objectives.
      (1)   The Board of Supervisors finds that an objective of this chapter is
to meet the housing needs of all types of very low, low, and moderate-income
groups in a manner that is economically feasible and consistent with their
needs.
      (2)   The Board of Supervisors further finds that extremely low, very
low, low, and moderate- income housing best achieves the broader community goal
of integrating households of all economic levels into the community when such
housing is provided throughout the community and that a specific objective of
this chapter is to provide housing opportunities throughout the community, in
all planning areas of the county for very low, low, and moderate-income
households.
      (3)   The Board of Supervisors further finds that an objective of this
chapter is to provide housing opportunities for very low, low, and moderate-
income household members currently residing or working in the county, on a
priority basis.
(Ord. 866, § 1(part), 2010; Ord. 951, § 1(part), 2016; Ord. 1,014, §§ 2 and 3,
2020; Ord. 1059, § 2 (part), 2023)
§ 21.03.002 PURPOSE.
   The purposes of this chapter are to enhance the public welfare, benefit the
property being developed, assure compatibility between future housing
development and the housing units affordable to persons of very low, low, and
moderate-income and ensure that remaining developable land in the county is
utilized in a manner consistent with state and local housing policies and
needs.
(Ord. 866, § 1 (part), 2010; Ord. 951, § 1(part), 2016)
§ 21.03.003 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply:
   ADMINISTRATIVE MANUAL. The manual prepared pursuant to §
21.03.010(G).
   AFFORDABLE. A cost for housing, whether for an owner-occupied or rental
unit, that does not exceed “affordable housing cost” as set forth in Cal.
Health and Safety Code § 50052.5 for owner-occupied and “affordable rent” as
set forth in Cal. Health and Safety Code § 50053. Adjustments for household
size based on the number of bedrooms in the unit and other monthly housing cost
factors, including assumed mortgage interest rates, loan insurance fees,
maintenance and repair allowances, utility allowances, homeowners insurance,
property tax and assessment costs, and homeowners association dues, shall be as
provided by the county in the Administrative Manual.
   AFFORDABLE HOUSING AGREEMENT. Plans demonstrating how affordable development
in the county consisting of six or more units will meet the requirements of
this chapter, the Affordable Housing Regulations, and should be submitted with
a tentative subdivision map application. These plans must demonstrate a
comprehensive review of the implementation and administration of the Affordable
Housing Regulations for the proposed development. These plans shall entail in
an in-depth overview of each phase of the development process, tenant screening
and income qualification process, proposed  legal forms and applications, and
other such information that is deemed necessary for a complete affordable
housing plan.
   AFFORDABLE HOUSING PLAN. A plan demonstrating how a specific development
project will meet the requirements of this chapter.
   APPLICANT. A person or entity that applies for a residential development
and, if the APPLICANT does not own the property on which development is
proposed, also means the owner or owners of the property.
   APPROPRIATE AUTHORITY. That person, official, or body designated by county
regulations to hear, grant, deny, modify, condition, revoke or otherwise act on
permits required by the county’s regulations.
   APPROVAL. Any approval by the appropriate authority of a discretionary
permit for residential development, including, but not limited to, planned unit
development or planned community development approval, subdivision approval,
use permit, building permit or combined development permit, and if no
discretionary approval is required, also means a building permit for
residential development.
   APPROVED DOCUMENTS. Affordable housing agreement or development agreement.
   AREA MEDIAN INCOME. The median annual income for San Benito County, adjusted
for household size, as published annually in the Cal. Code of Regulations,
Title 25, Section 6932, or its successor provision, or the equivalent as
established by the county in the event that such annual publication should be
discontinued.
   BUILDING PERMIT. A permit issued by the County Department of Planning and
Building authorizing the construction of new dwellings.
   CONDOMINIUM HOUSING. Multi-family housing on a single lot where residents
own the air space of their individual unit.
   DIRECTOR. The Director of the Resource Management Agency (or a county
officer with similar responsibilities designated by the county administrative
officer), or his or her designee.
   DENSITY BONUS. An increase in the number of units permitted in a proposed
residential project provided pursuant to the State Density Bonus Law as set
forth in Cal. Gov’t Code § 65915 et seq., as amended.
   DUPLEX HOUSING. Housing where two attached single-family units are on one
lot.
   DWELLING or UNIT. Any structure or portion thereof designed or used as the
residence.
   ELIGIBLE HOUSEHOLD. A household whose gross annual household income does not
exceed the applicable maximum for a given inclusionary unit.
   FOR-SALE INCLUSIONARY UNIT. An inclusionary unit which is designated in an
inclusionary housing agreement to be sold to a household eligible under this
chapter.
   GROSS ANNUAL HOUSEHOLD INCOME. The combined adjusted gross income (pretax)
of all adult persons in a household, who are applying for an inclusionary unit,
or who are residing in an inclusionary unit, as calculated pursuant to the
Section 8 Program under the United States Housing Act of 1937, as amended, or
its successor.
   HOUSEHOLD. One or more individuals who occupy one dwelling unit as a single
housekeeping unit, whether or not related by blood or marriage.
   HOUSEHOLD INCOME GROUPS.
      (1)   EXTREMELY LOW-INCOME HOUSEHOLD. A household with an annual income
which does not exceed the California Department of Finance annual determination
for extremely low-income households earning no more than 30% of area median
income, adjusted for household size.
      (2)   VERY LOW-INCOME HOUSEHOLD. A household with an annual income which
does not exceed the California Department of Finance annual determination for
very low-income households earning no more than 50% of area median income,
adjusted for household size.
      (3)   LOW-INCOME HOUSEHOLD. A household with an annual income which does
not exceed the California Department of Finance annual determination for lower-
income households with incomes earning no more than 80% of the area median
income, adjusted for household size.
      (4)   MODERATE-INCOME HOUSEHOLD. A household, including a low-income
household and a very low-income household, with an annual income which does not
exceed 120% of the area median income, adjusted for household size.
   HUD. The United States Department of Housing and Urban Development.
   INCLUSIONARY UNIT. A housing unit which is required by an approval to meet
affordability and occupancy limits under this chapter. In addition to standard
subdivision single-family developments, other types of inclusionary units can
include individual single-family homes, mixed-use properties, townhomes, and
duplex units, assuming consistency with established zoning regulations.
   IN-LIEU PAYMENT. The amount payable pursuant to this chapter as an
alternative to the construction of fractional on-site or off-site inclusionary
units. In addition, the in-lieu fee payment can be paid as an alternative to
the construction of an on-site unit, or off-site unit.
   MEDIAN INCOME. The median household income as determined by the California
Department of Finance and updated on an annual basis.
   MODERATE-INCOME INCLUSIONARY UNIT. An inclusionary unit reserved for
occupancy by moderate-income households at an affordable rent or sales price.
   MULTI-FAMILY HOUSING. Housing where multiple separate units are contained
within one or more buildings, within one complex, on one or more lots, with a
minimum of four units.
   OWNER-OCCUPIED DEVELOPMENT. A residential development in which the same
person or persons are sole or majority owner of the property at the time of
approval of the development and at the time the development receives its
building permit, and those persons make and record a legally binding agreement,
acceptable to the Director and approved as to form by County Counsel, to reside
in the residential development for not less than one year from the recordation
of the notice of completion, and where the proposed owner-occupant has not
previously been an owner-occupant under this chapter during a period of ten
years prior to application for approval.
   PENDING DEVELOPMENT. A residential development for which an application has
been approved by the county on or before the effective date of this chapter, so
long as the number of dwellings does not increase after the approval.
   PLANNING AREA. The unincorporated area of the County of San Benito.
Residential development projects in the PLANNING AREA that require any approval
submit applications to the county. New construction projects or alteration of
structures which create five or more new or additional dwelling units and/or
lots are subject to this chapter.
   RENTAL INCLUSIONARY UNIT. An inclusionary unit which is designated in an
inclusionary housing agreement to be rented to a household eligible under this
chapter.
   RESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENT MINIMUM PROJECT SIZES. Any project requiring any
approval, for which an application or applications are submitted to the county
and which would by construction or alteration of structures create five or more
new or additional dwelling units and/or lots.
   SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSING. Housing where one residential unit is on one lot.
   SUBDIVISION. A “subdivision” as that term is defined by the California
Subdivision Map Act which is intended for residential use.
   TOWNHOME HOUSING. Housing where multiple single-family units are on separate
lots and are attached at the property line.
   TRIPLEX HOUSING. Housing where three attached single-family units are on one
lot.
(Ord. 866, § 1(part), 2010; Ord. 951, § 1(part), 2016; Ord. 1,014, § 4, 2020;
Ord. 1052, § 2, 2023)
§ 21.03.004 DEVELOPMENT REQUIRING INCLUSIONARY CONTRIBUTION.
   (A)   The requirements of this chapter are minimum requirements and shall
not preclude a residential development from providing additional affordable
units and/or affordable units with lower rents or sales prices. Except as
expressly provided in divisions (C) and (D) of this section, all residential
developments shall contribute to the provision of housing for very low, low,
and moderate-income households in the County of San Benito as provided in this
chapter.
   (B)   Affordable units will be required to be constructed within ten miles
of an incorporated city within San Benito County. If a residential development
is proposed outside of the ten-mile radius, the development’s corresponding
affordable units shall be located off-site and may be located outside of the
planning area of the market rate project, subject to approval by the Planning
Commission and the Board of Supervisors. The quantity of affordable units
constructed off-site shall be calculated according to the off-site inclusionary
requirement.
   (C)   Residential developments which meet one of the following criteria
shall not be required to comply with this chapter:
      (1)   Residential developments that form part of a larger residential
development as to which the requirements of this chapter have previously been
fully satisfied and as to which there is no default in continuing obligations
under this chapter, where the new residential development results in no
increase in the number of previously approved lots or units;
      (2)   Development as to which the applicant demonstrates that there is no
reasonable relationship between the development and the requirements imposed by
this chapter, that the requirements of this chapter would take property in
violation of the United States or California Constitutions, or that as a result
of unusual or unforeseen circumstances, it would not be appropriate to apply,
or would be appropriate to modify, the requirements of this chapter, provided
that the Board of Supervisors makes the determination to approve or disapprove
an exemption or modification, and makes written findings, based on substantial
evidence, supporting that determination;
      (3)   Development for farm workers;
      (4)   Mobile-home park development.
      (5)   Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, an applicant
may propose an alternative means of compliance with this chapter by submitting
an affordable housing plan that achieves the purpose and intent of this
chapter. The Board of Supervisors may approve such alternative method of
meeting the county’s inclusionary housing requirement by means of a development
agreement or an affordable housing agreement or other appropriate means if the
Board of Supervisors finds and determine that, based on substantial evidence in
the record, the proposed new residential development is consistent with the
general plan, will assist in the attainment of the county’s identified housing
needs and regional fair share responsibilities for very low, low, and moderate
income households, and the number of affordable housing units will provide an
acceptable level of affordable housing while providing public benefits
consistent with compliance with the express requirements of this chapter.
         (a)   Developers may reserve or set-aside land to be transferred to an
affordable housing developer to satisfy an affordable housing requirement. Land
may be part of the market-rate development being constructed, or may be
provided off-site in a high density residential zone. Priority will be given to
development projects that satisfy affordable requirements through land set-
aside and dedicated to high-density affordable housing.
   (D)   Pending developments, as that term is defined by this chapter, shall
be subject to the requirements of the inclusionary housing ordinance in effect
when the application for the development is approved by the appropriate
authority, with the exception that vesting tentative maps shall be subject to
the requirements of the inclusionary housing ordinance in effect when the
application for the vesting tentative map was deemed complete.
   (E)   Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, an applicant may
propose an alternative means of compliance with this chapter by submitting an
affordable housing plan that achieves the purpose and intent of this chapter.
The Board of Supervisors may approve such alternative method of meeting the
county’s inclusionary housing requirement by means of a development agreement
or an affordable housing agreement or other appropriate means if the Board of
Supervisors finds and determine that, based on substantial evidence in the
record, the proposed new residential development is consistent with the general
plan, will assist in the attainment of the county’s identified housing needs
and regional fair share responsibilities for very low, low, and moderate-income
households, and the number of affordable housing units will provide an
acceptable level of affordable housing while providing public benefits
consistent with compliance with the express requirements of this chapter. Such
alternative means of compliance may include:
      (1)   Payment of in-lieu fees;
      (2)   Developers may reserve or set aside the right to land to be
transferred to an affordable housing developer to satisfy an affordable housing
requirement. Land may be part of the market-rate development being constructed
or may be provided off-site in a high-density residential zone. Priority will
be given to development projects that satisfy affordable requirements through
land set aside and dedicated to high-density affordable housing;
      (3)   Build affordable multi-family rental units within the development
rather than affordable for-sale, single-family homes;
      (4)   Inclusionary requirement can be met through a combination of
providing inclusionary units and in-lieu fees;
      (5)   Townhomes can meet for-sale housing requirements;
      (6)   Off-site construction. Require a higher percentage of inclusionary
units if the developer selects this option;
      (7)   Land donation. Value of the land should not be lower than the total
fees that would have been paid.
   (F)   Review process and approving authority. The Planning Commission will
review affordable housing plans submitted with tentative subdivision map
applications for compliance with this chapter and provide recommendations to
the Board of Supervisors. The Board of Supervisors have the authority to
approve affordable housing plans. Once an affordable housing plan is approved:
      (1)   The tentative map may be approved or conditionally approved by the
Planning Commission if it finds that the proposed subdivision, together with
the provisions for its design and improvement, is consistent with the general
plan, the Affordable Housing Regulations, and any applicable provision pursuant
to County Code Title 23 Chapter 7.
      (2)   The County Engineer shall review the final map and any other
required information, and the subdivider shall make corrections and/or
additions until acceptable to the County Engineer pursuant to County Code
Ch. 23.09.
      (3)   The final map, approved by the County Engineer as complying with
the approved or conditionally approved tentative map, shall be recorded with
the Board of Supervisors of approval after all required certificates have been
signed. The date the map shall be deemed recorded with the Board of Supervisors
is the date on which the Clerk of the Board receives the map. The Board of
Supervisors shall consider the final map and affordable housing plan for
approval at its next regular meeting following receipt of the map by the Clerk
of the Board pursuant to County Code Title 23 Chapter 9.
      (4)   Any determination made by the appropriate authority to implement
this chapter in connection with granting approval may be appealed pursuant to
the appeal provisions of County Code Title 25 Chapter 1.
(Ord. 951, § 1(part), 2016; Ord. 1,014, § 5, 2020; Ord. 1052, § 2, 2023)
§ 21.03.005 INCLUSIONARY REQUIREMENTS.
   All residential development in the county consisting of six to ten units
shall be subject to an inclusionary housing fee. All residential development in
the county consisting of 11 or more units shall provide inclusionary units on-
site or off-site, except that a fee may be paid in-lieu of providing fractional
units and in other circumstances specified in §
21.03.008. Applicants may elect to substitute an in-lieu fee if the fraction is
less than 0.7. All fractions of 0.7 or greater are required to round to the
nearest whole number resulting in an additional unit. The size, design, and
location of inclusionary units shall be consistent with a project-specific
affordable housing plan, the county general plan, zoning ordinance, and other
county ordinances and building standards. To satisfy the inclusionary
requirement, the inclusionary housing type is not limited to single family
units and based on the appropriate zoning can include mixed-use residential,
townhome, duplex, and other housing types proposed by the affordable housing
plan. Compliance may be accomplished by the applicant alone or in combination
with others, including a non-profit housing corporation, as specified in §§
21.03.006 and
21.03.007.
(Ord. 951, § 1(part), 2016; Ord. 1,014, § 6, 2020; Ord. 1052, § 2, 2023)
§ 21.03.006 ON-SITE AFFORDABLE UNITS.
   (A)   To satisfy its inclusionary requirement on-site, a residential
development must construct inclusionary units in an amount equal to or greater
than 15% of the total number of units approved for the residential development
(except to the extent a fraction of a unit would be required). Applicants may
elect to substitute an in-lieu fee if the fraction is less than 0.7. All
fractions of 0.7 or greater are required to round to the nearest whole number
resulting in an additional unit. Initial and subsequent affordability levels
and eligible occupants of the inclusionary units shall conform to the
requirements of §
21.03.010, as applicable.
   (B)   If a residential development is proposed more than ten miles from an
incorporated city within San Benito County on- site affordable units shall not
be constructed and instead off-site units shall be constructed. Said off-site
units may be located outside of the planning area of the market rate project,
subject to approval by the Planning Commission and the Board of Supervisors.
The quantity of affordable units constructed off-site shall be calculated
according to the off-site inclusionary requirement.
   (C)   On-site affordable units must receive building permits and
certificates of occupancy concurrently with the remainder of the residential
development, as set forth in and except as otherwise provided by the affordable
housing agreement;
   (D)   The percentage of required inclusionary units is the same for both
rental and for-sale housing, but income targeting for rental housing and for-
sale housing are not the same. See the tables below for both on-site and off-
site affordability target for-sale and rental inclusionary units. Should there
be any discrepancy between this table and the text of this chapter, the text
shall control.
On-Site For-Sale Inclusionary Requirements (15%)
Size of Development Inclusionary      Moderate-Income (81%- Low-Income
                    Requirement (15%) 120% AMI)             (51%-80% AMI)
On-Site For-Sale Inclusionary Requirements (15%)
Size of Development Inclusionary         Moderate-Income   Low-Income
                    Requirement (15%)    (81%-120% AMI)    (51%-80% AMI)
1-5                 None
6-10*               Payment of in-lieu
                    fee
                    Provide 15%
11*                 inclusionary units + 1 unit
                    fractional fee
                    Provide 15%
12-17*              inclusionary units + 1 unit            1 unit
                    fractional fee
                    Provide 15%
18-24*              inclusionary units + 2 units           1 unit
                    fractional fee
                    Provide 15%
25-31*              inclusionary units + 2 units           2 units
                    fractional fee
                    Provide 15%
32-37*              inclusionary units + 3 units           2 units
                    fractional fee
38-40               Provide 15%          3 units           3 units
                    inclusionary units
                    Provide 15%
41 lots or more*    inclusionary units + 7.5% of all units 7.5% of all units
                    fractional fee
Note:
* Fractional units, regardless of project size or on-site or off-site, still
pay in-lieu fees.
 
On-Site Rental Unit Inclusionary Requirements (15%)
Size of     Inclusionary Very Low-Income  Low-Income (51%- Moderate-Income
Development Requirement  (<50% AMI)       80% AMI)         (81%-120% AMI)
            (15%)
On-Site Rental Unit Inclusionary Requirements (15%)
Size of     Inclusionary   Very Low-Income  Low-Income (51%- Moderate-Income
Development Requirement    (<50% AMI)       80% AMI)         (81%-120% AMI)
            (15%)
1-5         None                                            
6-10*       Payment of in-
            lieu fee
            Provide 15%
11*         inclusionary   1 unit
            units +
            fractional fee
            Provide 15%
12-17*      inclusionary   1 unit           1 unit
            units +
            fractional fee
            Provide 15%
18-24*      inclusionary   1 unit           1 unit           1 unit
            units +
            fractional fee
            Provide 15%
25-31*      inclusionary   2 units          1 unit           1 unit
            units +
            fractional fee
            Provide 15%
32-37*      inclusionary   2 units          2 units          1 unit
            units +
            fractional fee
            Provide 15%
38-40       inclusionary   2 units          2 units          2 units
            units
            Provide 15%
41 or more* inclusionary   5% of all units  5% of all units  5% of all units
            units +
            fractional fee
Note:
* Fractional units, regardless of project size or on-site or off-site, still
pay in-lieu fees.
 
(Ord. 951, § 1(part), 2016; Ord. 1,014, § 7, 2020; Ord. 1052, § 2, 2023; Ord.
1059, § 2 (part), 2023)
§ 21.03.007 OFF-SITE AFFORDABLE UNITS.
   (A)   Off-site inclusionary units, in place of or combined with on-site
units, may be approved upon a showing by the applicant for the residential
development, approved by the appropriate authority, that off-site units will
provide a greater contribution to the county’s affordable housing needs. If a
developer chooses off-site affordable housing, the inclusionary requirement
shall be 20% (except to the extent a fraction of a unit would be required).
Applicants may elect to substitute an in-lieu fee if the fraction is less than
0.7. All fractions of 0.7 or greater are required to round to the nearest whole
number resulting in an additional unit. The development of off-site units must
result in the creation of newly constructed units, or units that are not
otherwise previously planned or required for a separate development, unless
approved by the Board of Supervisors.
   (B)   Off-site affordable units, to the greatest extent possible, should be
located within the same planning area as the market rate project.
      (1)   Affordable units will be required to be constructed within ten
miles of an incorporated city within San Benito County. If a residential
development is proposed outside of the ten-mile radius, the development's
corresponding affordable units shall be located off-site and may be located
outside of the planning area of the market rate project, subject to approval by
the Planning Commission and the Board of Supervisors. The quantity of
affordable units constructed off-site shall be calculated according to the off-
site inclusionary requirement.
   (C)   Off-site units may be allowed only if their location is identified and
is owned, or site control is demonstrated by the applicant, at the time of
approval.
   (D)   Except as otherwise provided in the affordable housing agreement for
the residential development, building permits for corresponding market-rate
units will not be issued until building permits have been issued for off-site
units, and final inspections for occupancy will not occur for corresponding
market-rate units until final inspections for occupancy have occurred for off-
site units.
   (E)   The off-site inclusionary housing requirements of this chapter are
summarized in the following tables. Should there be any discrepancy between
these tables and the text of this chapter, the text shall control.
Off-Site For-Sale Inclusionary Requirement (20%)
Size of Development Inclusionary      Moderate-Income (81%- Low-Income
                    Requirement (20%) 120% AMI)             (51%-80% AMI)
Off-Site For-Sale Inclusionary Requirement (20%)
Size of Development Inclusionary         Moderate-Income (81%- Low-Income
                    Requirement (20%)    120% AMI)             (51%-80% AMI)
1-5                 None                                       
6-10*               Payment of in-lieu                         
                    fee
                    Provide 20%
11-13*              inclusionary units + 1 unit                1 unit
                    fractional fee
                    Provide 20%
14-18*              inclusionary units + 2 units               1 unit
                    fractional fee
                    Provide 20%
19-23*              inclusionary units + 2 units               2 units
                    fractional fee
                    Provide 20%
24 lots or more*    inclusionary units + 10% of all units      10% of all units
                    fractional fee
Note:
* Fractional units, regardless of project size or on-site or off-site, still
pay in-lieu fees.
 
Off-Site Rental Unit Requirement (20%)
Size of     Inclusionary Very Low-Income  Low-Income (51%- Moderate-Income
Development Requirement  (<50% AMI)       80%)             (81%-120%)
            (20%)
Off-Site Rental Unit Requirement (20%)
Size of     Inclusionary   Very Low-Income  Low-Income (51%- Moderate-Income
Development Requirement    (<50% AMI)       80%)             (81%-120%)
            (20%)
1-5         None                                            
6-10*       Payment of in-                                  
            lieu fee
            Provide 20%
11-13*      inclusionary   1 unit           1 unit
            units +
            fractional fee
            Provide 20%
14-18*      inclusionary   1 unit           1 unit           1 unit
            units +
            fractional fee
            Provide 20%
19-23*      inclusionary   2 units          1 unit           1 unit
            units +
            fractional fee
            Provide 20%
24 lots or  inclusionary   7.5% of all      7.5% of all      5% of all units
more*       units +        units            units
            fractional fee
Note:
* Fractional units, regardless of project size or on-site or off-site, still
pay in-lieu fees.
 
(Ord. 951, § 1(part), 2016; Ord. 1,014, § 8, 2020; Ord. 1052, § 2, 2023; Ord.
1059, § 2 (part), 2023)
§ 21.03.008 IN-LIEU PAYMENT AND OTHER ALTERNATIVE COMPLIANCE MECHANISMS.
   (A)   For both on-site and off-site construction, unless an exemption is
approved by the Board of Supervisors pursuant to division (C) below, the
applicant shall be required to build the whole number of inclusionary units as
determined in division (C) below. The Director of Resource Management Agency or
his or her designee shall calculate and update the in-lieu fees on an annual
basis based on the annual increase in the Residential Construction Cost Index
to adjust the in-lieu fee annually as part of the Master Fee Schedule.
   (B)   Fractions of units. Residential developments required to construct
fractions of a unit under this chapter shall pay an in-lieu fee if the fraction
is less than 0.7 in an amount corresponding to the fractional unit, computed by
multiplying the in-lieu fee amount determined under division (C) below by the
fraction. All fractions of 0.7 or greater are required to round to the nearest
whole number resulting in an additional unit.
   (C)   Qualification for in-lieu payment. The developer of a residential
development containing 11 or more units may apply to pay a fee in lieu of
providing some or all of the required inclusionary units if the developer
demonstrates, based on evidence in the record, in connection with the approval
for the residential development, that specific characteristics of the
development site, including at least one of the following: (1) septic systems
or individual wells that are not connected to a public agency or regulated
water purveyor, (2) zoning which requires large lot development, or (3) is not
within ten miles of an incorporated city, make the site unsuitable for
households at the required income levels. The evidence must be reviewed by the
Planning Commission and the qualifications for an in-lieu payment must be
approved by the Board of Supervisors.
   (D)   Payment amount. Inclusionary fees shall be reviewed by the Planning
Commission and set forth by resolution of the Board of Supervisors and shall
reflect the findings found in §
21.03.001(G).
   (E)   Time of payment. Payment of in-lieu fees shall be made in full to the
county prior to issuance of a certificate of occupancy and final inspection,
unless an affordable housing agreement otherwise provides.
   (F)   Alternative compliance mechanisms should be used only when they will
lead to the production of more affordable units than would otherwise be
provided on-site, while still being consistent with the chapter’s other goals.
Also, alternatives should be made available where on-site production of units
is less feasible, rather than as a default option for all developments.
Examples of alternative mechanisms include (but are not limited to) the
following: land donation, construction of rental units adjacent to for-sale
projects, and provision of subsidies to non-profit developers for affordable
rental housing.
(Ord. 951, § 1(part), 2016; Ord. 1,014, § 9, 2020; Ord. 1052, § 2, 2023; Ord.
1059, § 2 (part), 2023)
§ 21.03.009 DEVELOPMENT PROJECT APPROVAL.
   (A)   A residential development application will not be deemed complete
until the applicant has submitted plans and proposals which demonstrate the
manner in which the applicant proposes to meet the requirements of this
chapter, including any plans for the construction of on-site units, commitment
of off-site units, and/or intent to pay in-lieu fees.
   (B)   Conditions to carry out this chapter shall be imposed on the approval
of a residential development. When granting the approval, the appropriate
authority shall determine and include as a condition of approval: (1) the
method of compliance with this chapter, including whether the residential
development will comply with this chapter through provision of on-site units or
off-site units or payment of an in-lieu fee or combination thereof; (2) if
inclusionary units are to be provided, the number of units required and
fractional amount of units for which an in-lieu fee may be paid; and (3) such
other matters as the appropriate authority deems proper. The condition of
approval shall further provide that prior to the recordation of the parcel map
or final map in the case of subdivisions and/or prior to the issuance of
building permits in the case of all other land use permits to which this
chapter applies, the applicant shall enter into an affordable housing agreement
acceptable to the director that contains specific requirements implementing the
condition of approval including, but not limited to, as applicable, the number
of inclusionary units, the level of affordability, location and type of
inclusionary units, timing of construction of inclusionary units in relation to
the construction of the market rate units contained in the development, and
amount of the in-lieu fee, if any. The affordable housing agreement may be
amended by the parties, provided the amendment is consistent with the condition
of approval imposed as part of the approval and the existing county approvals.
If the proposed amendment is minor or technical in nature, the Director shall
have authority to approve or disapprove the amendment on behalf of the county.
If the proposed amendment makes a substantive or material change to the
affordable housing agreement, the amendment shall be effective only if,
following notice and hearing and such other procedures as may be required by
law, approved by the appropriate authority who gave the approval on the
project.
   (C)   Where a residential development receives a subdivision approval, the
final subdivision map or parcel map, which is to be filed and recorded, shall
include a notation, in a form acceptable under the Subdivision Map Act,
describing the condition of approval to comply with this chapter.
   (D)   Where the party subject to a fully executed affordable housing
agreement or other document regulating or limiting the operation, price or rent
of an inclusionary unit, entered into under this chapter or any previous
version of this chapter, believes that the document requires modification as a
result of unusual circumstances which could not have been foreseen at the time
the document was entered into, the affected party may apply to the County Board
of Supervisors for modification of the document. Such modification shall be
considered at a public hearing during a regularly scheduled meeting.
   (E)   Review process and approving authority. The Planning Commission will
review affordable housing plans submitted with tentative subdivision map
applications for compliance with this chapter and provide recommendations to
the Board of Supervisors. The Board of Supervisors have the authority to
approve affordable housing plans. Once an affordable housing plan is approved:
      (1)   The tentative map may be approved or conditionally approved by the
Planning Commission if it finds that the proposed subdivision, together with
the provisions for its design and improvement, is consistent with the general
plan, the Affordable Housing Regulations, and any applicable provision pursuant
to County Code Title 23 Chapter 7.
      (2)   The County Engineer shall review the final map and any other
required information, and the subdivider shall make corrections and/or
additions until acceptable to the County Engineer pursuant to County Code
Ch. 23.09.
      (3)   The final map, approved by the County Engineer as complying with
the approved or conditionally approved tentative map, shall be recorded with
the Board of Supervisors of approval after all required certificates have been
signed. The date the map shall be deemed recorded with the Board of Supervisors
is the date on which the Clerk of the Board receives the map. The Board of
Supervisors shall consider the final map and affordable housing plan for
approval at its next regular meeting following receipt of the map by the Clerk
of the Board pursuant to County Code Title 23 Chapter 9.
      (4)   Any determination made by the appropriate authority to implement
this chapter in connection with granting approval may be appealed pursuant to
the appeal provisions of County Code Title 25 Chapter 1.
(Ord. 866, § 1(part), 2010; Ord. 951, § 1(part), 2016; Ord. 1052, § 2, 2023;
Ord. 1059, § 2 (part), 2023)
§ 21.03.010 OCCUPANCY AND CONTINUING AVAILABILITY OF UNITS.
   (A)   The occupancy and continuing availability of inclusionary units shall
be provided for in the following manner:
      (1)   The number and type of rental inclusionary units and for-sale
inclusionary units shall be determined for each application or approval under
the standards of this chapter and set forth in the affordable housing agreement
or development agreement as approved by the Board. On-site and off-site for-
sale and/or rental inclusionary units shall be sold/rented only to eligible
households and only to extremely low, very low, low, or moderate-income
households, as applicable, at prices affordable to such households and pursuant
to further requirements of resale restrictions, a promissory note, second deed
of trust naming the county as beneficiary, deed restrictions and/or other
documents pursuant to this chapter.
      (2)   Where the number of required moderate-income units is not a whole
number, the fractional units required shall be added to the number of low-
income inclusionary units required. If the resultant number of low-income units
is not a whole number, the fractional units required shall be added to the
number of very low-income inclusionary units required. Where (after any
addition of fractional units under the preceding sentences) the number of very
low-income inclusionary units required is not a whole number, the applicant
shall include the next higher whole number of very low-income and inclusionary
units or may apply to pay a fractional unit in-lieu fee in the amount provided
in §
21.03.008.
   (B)   The initial maximum sale price of the inclusionary unit to the first
purchaser shall be determined by the Director, pursuant to a method set forth
in the Administrative Manual. Similar restrictions shall be required of
subsequent owners at the time they acquire the unit. The initial maximum rental
price of the rental inclusionary unit shall be determined by the Cal. Health
and Safety Code related to Section 8 Rental Housing Assistance or by the
Director pursuant to a method set forth in the Administrative Manual, or as
established by ordinance.
   (C)   Resale value for an inclusionary for-sale unit. The maximum resale
price shall be determined under the approved documents, consistent with the
Administrative Manual and the following:
      (1)   The maximum permitted resale price of an inclusionary unit shall
not be increased above the purchase price within one year of purchase.
      (2)   The maximum permitted resale price shall be the initial sale price
of the inclusionary unit, increased at the same rate as the median income has
increased, with the following modifications.
      (3)   Where an owner has lawfully added a bedroom to a for-sale
inclusionary unit, the maximum resale price of the unit shall be calculated
based on an assumed household size corresponding to the total number of
bedrooms, including the added bedroom.
      (4)   The Administrative Manual and/or approved documents may provide for
a ceiling which limits the resale price increases resulting from the
modifications in divisions (C) and (D).
   (D)   Transfer. Transfer of a for-sale inclusionary unit to a child or
stepchild upon the death of one or more of the prior owners shall be permitted
without payment of any amount otherwise due to the county based on the sales
price or appreciation of the unit, and without regard to any otherwise
applicable preferences or waiting list priority for successor owners, if, but
only if, the household of the child or stepchild would be eligible to purchase
the unit and will occupy the unit. A child or stepchild, whether or not his or
her household is income eligible or will occupy the unit and regardless of any
otherwise applicable preferences or waiting list priority, shall be entitled to
own and/or occupy a for-sale inclusionary unit after the death of the prior
parent owner, for a period not to exceed one year, without regard to otherwise
applicable resale requirements of this chapter but subject to any applicable
provisions of the Administrative Manual or county documents regulating the
project. Not later than the expiration of the one-year period, the unit shall
be transferred to the child or stepchild (if the household is eligible and
wishes to keep the unit) or shall be offered for sale in conformance with this
chapter, with appropriate restrictions recorded against the unit under this
chapter for the county’s benefit.
   (E)   Refinancing. For-sale inclusionary units may be refinanced, to the
extent provided in the Administrative Manual. A separate notice of that
restriction shall be recorded to prevent lenders from bypassing this
requirement.
   (F)   Terms of affordability.
      (1)   New and existing for-sale inclusionary units. New and existing for-
sale inclusionary units, affordability and occupancy restrictions shall remain
in effect for 30 years and shall apply to any replacement structure or
structures constructed if a structure containing an inclusionary unit or units
is demolished or destroyed. If demolition or destruction of a structure
containing inclusionary units occurs 30 years or more after recording of the
restrictions and said demolition or destruction was unintentional, restrictions
on the units in the structure shall terminate on demolition or destruction.
Where a for-sale inclusionary unit is transferred and the new owner is required
to enter into new regulatory documents under this chapter, the new regulatory
documents will provide for an affordability period of 30 years.
      (2)   New and existing rental inclusionary units. New and existing
inclusionary rental units, affordability and occupancy restrictions shall
remain in effect for a minimum of 55 years and shall apply to any replacement
structure or structures constructed if a structure containing an inclusionary
unit or units is demolished or destroyed. If demolition or destruction of a
structure containing inclusionary units occurs 55 or more after recording of
the restrictions and said demolition or destruction was unintentional,
restrictions on the units in the structure shall terminate on demolition or
destruction.
   (G)   Maintenance. Regulatory agreements and recorded restrictions on resale
shall include maintenance and insurance requirements for affordable units.
   (H)   Approval and recording of documents.
      (1)   The Director, in consultation with County Counsel, shall establish
the form and content of agreements and restrictions authorized under this
chapter. Regulatory agreements and resale restriction documents may provide for
specific affordability and/or occupancy requirements for particular affordable
units, consistent with this chapter and with the terms of the project’s
affordable housing agreement. Restrictions on resale are required and shall be
recorded against title to the affordable units and shall prohibit or limit
leasing of inclusionary units.
      (2)   These documents shall be executed by the record owners of affected
property, approved as to form by County Counsel and recorded in the official
records of the county.
   (I)   Occupancy. Initial and subsequent occupancy of inclusionary units
shall be in accord with conditions and requirements stated in the
Administrative Manual.
   (J)   Marketing/selection of participants. The Administrative Manual shall
set forth marketing and selection policies and/or procedures for inclusionary
for-sale and rental units and identify county staff responsible for supervising
marketing. If the county maintains an eligible list(s), it may select
households first from an eligibility list for newly available affordable units
prior to other applicants.
   (K)   Changes in a renter’s income. If the monitoring process conducted by
county staff reveals that the income of the household occupying the
inclusionary rental unit exceeds the maximum amount of income for the
restricted unit for the specific household size, the renter-household can
remain in the home for an additional year.
   (L)   Administrative Manual. The Board of Supervisors shall adopt and may
from time to time amend an Administrative Manual, approved as to form by County
Counsel, to establish guidelines to interpret and implement this chapter,
including without limitation income and maximum asset guidelines for
inclusionary units and units assisted by in-lieu fee proceeds. All mandatory
provisions of the manual, when adopted, shall bind applicants and other private
parties subject to this chapter. Maximum permitted sales prices shall be
governed by the administrative manual. The Board of Supervisors shall conduct a
duly noticed public hearing prior to the adoption or any amendment of the
Administrative Manual.
(Ord. 951, § 1(part), 2016; Ord. 1,014, § 10, 2020; Ord. 1052, § 2, 2023)
§ 21.03.011 RESERVED.
§ 21.03.012 COLLECTION AND USE OF IN-LIEU FEES.
   (A)   Use of fees. To the maximum extent possible, any monies received by
the county pursuant to this chapter shall be used to increase, improve, and
preserve the supply of affordable housing and services to provide extremely
low, very low, low, and/or moderate-income housing. Any monies received
pursuant to this chapter may be used for appropriate monitoring, enforcement,
and administrative costs. Monies received may also be used to assist the county
with all costs associated with construction, acquisition, unit purchase,
development, and rehabilitation of property for rental or homeownership
purposes as long as the property is offered for very low, low, and moderate-
income housing. Monies received may also be used to provide subsidies for
equity participation loans, low-interest loans, rent subsidies, grants, housing
trusts, or down payment assistance to eligible participants of extremely low,
very low, low, or moderate-income housing. Monies received may also be used for
related activities that promote affordable housing such as homebuyer education,
grant writing workshops, credit management workshops, financial literacy
workshops and foreclosure prevention education. Any monies received by the
county pursuant to this chapter shall be used to provide reasonable
reimbursement to approved governmental agencies or non-profit organizations for
related expenses associated with preserving an affordable “at-risk” unit for
extremely low, very low, low, or moderate income in order to prevent
foreclosure. Any monies received by the county pursuant to this chapter may
also be used to provide reasonable reimbursement to the county to cover
infrastructure costs associated with impact fee waivers provided to 100%
affordable housing developments as authorized by this section. All such monies
on deposit with the county including in-lieu fees, fees, promissory note
repayments, shared appreciation payments, penalties, interest generated, or
other funds collected shall be separately accounted for and shall not be used
for purposes not authorized by §
21.03.002.
   (B)   Funding proposals. At least once a year when the county holds
unappropriated in-lieu fees, the county shall advertise by notice in newspapers
of local circulation and other such written notice as deemed necessary by the
Board of Supervisors the availability of funds for the provision of very low,
low, and/or moderate-income housing in the county. Included in the notice shall
be an invitation to submit proposals and requests for funds to provide such
housing in the county. Proposals submitted for funding shall be in accordance
with the Board of Supervisors’ housing priorities set for the year. Proposals
shall be reviewed by the Planning Commission to be submitted with
recommendations to the Board of Supervisors for approval. The requests may be
for grants, low-interest loans and other funding mechanisms deemed appropriate
to secure the purpose of this chapter. The proposals may be for pre-development
projects and services, projects to promote very low, low, or moderate-income
housing unit(s), rehabilitation, land acquisition, unit purchase, and
development of infrastructure or other projects deemed appropriate to secure
the purpose of this chapter.
   (C)   Director’s authority. All proposals and requests for funding shall be
referred initially to the Director or designee. The Director or designee shall
make recommendations for funding to the Planning Commission, which shall make a
funding recommendation to the Board of Supervisors in accordance with the
procedures in this section. The Board of Supervisors, at its discretion, may
elect to fund none, any, or all of proposals received and may attach conditions
of approval, performance standards, or mitigation measures to any such
approval. For proposals which have received approval in accordance with the
procedures set forth in this section, the Director or designee shall have the
authority to execute all documents necessary to implement the approval on
behalf of the county, subject to the approval of County Counsel as to legal
form.
   (D)   Grant contract. Upon authorization for funding, the Director, on
behalf of the county, shall enter into a contract to assure to the greatest
extent possible that the approved proposals and requests are satisfactorily
completed. No warrant shall be issued until such contract is completed and
signed by the appropriate parties.
   (E)   Household eligibility. The Director or designee shall establish
standards for eligibility of extremely low, very low, low, and/or moderate-
income households in units assisted with the proceeds of in-lieu fees. Priority
for occupancy shall be granted to residents of the county and those employed in
the county.
   (F)   Impact fees. Developments that provide 100% affordable housing may
have pro rata reduction of impact fees, provided the Board of Supervisors
identifies and allocated another source of funds to replace the impact fee
waiver amount, as follows:
      (1)   Moderate income units shall require payment of 50% of the impact
fees.
      (2)   Low-income units shall require payment of 25% of the impact fees.
      (3)   Very low-income units shall be exempt from impact fees.
(Ord. 866, § 1(part), 2010; Ord. 951, § 1(part), 2016; Ord. 1,014, § 12, 2020;
Ord. 1052, § 2, 2023; Ord. 1059, § 2 (part), 2023)
§ 21.03.013 DENSITY BONUS AND INCENTIVES.
   (A)   The county shall provide density bonuses, incentives, or concessions
for the production of housing units and/or childcare facilities in accordance
with Cal. Gov’t Code § 65915 through § 65918. The county may, in its
discretion, grant a density bonus greater than required by Cal. Gov’t Code §
65915 for a development that meets the requirements of Cal. Gov’t Code § 65915
or grant a proportionately lower density bonus than what is required by Cal.
Gov’t Code § 65915 for developments that do not meet the requirements of Cal.
Gov’t Code § 65915.
      (1)   Twenty percent of the total units of housing development shall be
affordable for lower-income households, as defined in Cal. Health and Safety
Code § 50079.5;
      (2)   Ten percent of the total units of a housing development shall be
affordable for very low-income households, as defined in Cal. Health and Safety
Code § 50105;
      (3)   Fifty percent of the total dwelling units of a housing development
for qualifying residents, such as seniors, as defined in Cal. Civil Code §
51.3; or
      (4)   Twenty percent of the total dwelling units in a condominium project
as defined in Cal. Civil Code § 1351(f), for persons or families of moderate
income, as defined in Cal. Health and Safety Code § 50093.
   (B)   The county shall grant the additional concessions or incentives
required by this section unless the county makes a written finding, based upon
substantial evidence, that the additional concessions or incentives are not
required in order to provide for affordable housing costs, as defined in Cal.
Health and Safety Code § 50052.5. Concessions and incentives may be approved
without any requirement that the applicant demonstrates to the county that the
requested concessions or incentives result in identifiable and actual cost
reductions to the project to provide affordable ownership costs or affordable
rents.
   (C)   An applicant/developer may submit to the county a proposal for the
specific incentives or concessions that the applicant requests pursuant to this
section and may request a meeting with the county. The county shall grant the
concession or incentive requested by the applicant developer unless the county
makes a written finding, based upon substantial evidence, of either of the
following:
      (1)   The concession or incentive is not required in order to provide for
affordable housing costs, as defined in Cal. Health and Safety Code § 50052.5.
      (2)   The concession or incentive would have a specific adverse impact,
as defined in Cal. Gov’t Code § 65589.5(d)(2), upon public health and safety or
the physical environment or on any real property that is listed in the
California Register of Historical Resources and for which there is no feasible
method to satisfactorily mitigate or avoid the specific adverse impact without
rendering the development unaffordable to low and moderate-income households.
   (D)   Nothing in this section shall be interpreted to require the county to
grant an incentive or concession that has a specific, adverse impact, as
defined in Cal. Gov’t Code § 65589.5(d)(2), upon health, safety, or the
physical environmental, and for which there is no feasible method to
satisfactorily mitigate or avoid the specific adverse impact. Nothing in this
section shall be interpreted to require the county to grant an incentive or
concession that would have an adverse impact on any real property that is
listed in the California Register of Historical Resources.
   (E)   In no case shall the county apply any development standard that will
have the effect of precluding the construction of a development at the
densities or with the concessions or incentives permitted by this section. An
applicant/developer may submit to the county a proposal for the waiver or
reduction of development standards and may request a meeting with the county.
   (F)   It shall be the responsibility of the applicant/developer to show that
the waiver or modification is necessary to make the housing units economically
feasible.
   (G)   For the purposes of this chapter, except as provided in division (I),
DENSITY BONUS means a density increase of at least 25%, unless a lesser
percentage is elected by the applicant/developer, over the otherwise maximum
allowable residential density under the applicable zoning ordinance and land
use element of the general plan as of the date of application by the applicant/
developer to the county. All density calculations resulting in fractional units
of 0.7 or greater shall be rounded up to the next whole number. Applicants may
apply to substitute an in-lieu fee if the fraction is less than 0.7. The
granting of a density bonus shall not be interpreted, in and of itself, to
require a general plan amendment, zone change, or other discretionary approval.
The density bonus shall not be included when determining the number of housing
units which is equal to 10%, 20% or 50% of the total. The density bonus shall
apply to housing developments consisting of five or more dwelling units.
   (H)   For the purposes of this chapter, if a development does not meet the
requirements of divisions (A)(1), (A)(2) or (A)(3) of this section, but the
applicant/developer agrees or proposes to construct a condominium project as
defined in Cal. Civil Code § 1351(f), in which at least 20% of the total
dwelling units are reserved for persons and families of moderate income, as
defined in Cal. Health and Safety Code § 50093, a density bonus of at least 10%
shall be granted, unless a lesser percentage is elected by the applicant/
developer, over the otherwise maximum allowable residential density under the
applicable zoning ordinance and land use element of the general plan as of the
date of application by the applicant/developer to the county. All density
calculations resulting in fractional units shall be rounded up to the next
whole number.
   (I)   HOUSING DEVELOPMENT, as used in this section, means one or more groups
of projects for residential units constructed in the county. This includes
construction of rental or for-sale housing, including condominiums. For the
purposes of this section, HOUSING DEVELOPMENT also includes either (1) a
project to substantially rehabilitate and convert an existing non-residential
building to residential use, or (2) the substantial rehabilitation of an
existing multi-family dwelling, as defined in Cal. Gov’t Code § 65863.4(d),
where the result of the rehabilitation would be a net increase in available
residential units. For the purpose of calculating a density bonus, the
residential units do not have to be based upon individual subdivision maps or
parcels. Density bonus units need not be constructed in the same project area
as affordable units.
   (J)   For the purposes of this chapter, CONCESSION or INCENTIVE means any of
the following:
      (1)   A reduction in site development standards or a modification of
zoning code requirements or architectural design requirements that exceed the
minimum building standards approved by the California Building Standards
Commission as provided in Cal. Health and Safety Code part 2.5 (commencing with
§ 18901) of division 13, including, but not limited to, a reduction in setback
and square footage requirements and in the ratio of parking spaces that would
otherwise be required.
      (2)   Approval of mixed-use zoning in conjunction with the housing
project if commercial, office, industrial or other land uses will reduce the
cost of the housing development and if the commercial, office, industrial or
other land uses are compatible with the housing project and the existing or
planned development in the area where the proposed housing project will be
located.
      (3)   Other regulatory incentives or concessions proposed by the
applicant/developer or the county that result in identifiable and actual cost
reductions may be considered. This section does not limit or require the
provision of direct financial incentives for the housing development, including
the provision of publicly owned land, by the county, or the waiver of fees or
dedication requirements.
   (K)   For the purposes of this section, the following definitions shall
apply.
      DEVELOPMENT STANDARD. Any ordinance, general plan element, specific plan,
or other local condition, law, policy, resolution, or regulation.
      MAXIMUM ALLOWABLE RESIDENTIAL DENSITY. The density allowed under the
zoning ordinance, excluding bonus units permitted under this section.
(Ord. 866, § 1 (part), 2010; Ord. 951, § 1(part), 2016; Ord. 1052, § 2, 2023)
§ 21.03.014 AFFORDABLE-BY-DESIGN STANDARDS.
   Consult with planning staff to incorporate current concepts to include in
development proposals. All affordable by design standards elected by a
developer are in addition to the requirements of this chapter and do not
replace them.
(Ord. 951, § 1(part), 2016; Ord. 1052, § 2, 2023)
§ 21.03.015 DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS.
   (A)   Inclusionary units shall be dispersed throughout the residential
development to prevent the creation of a concentration of affordable units
within the residential development for all developments except for self-help
housing or multi-family housing.
   (B)   Inclusionary units shall be of similar architectural style and quality
as the design of market rate units in terms of exterior appearance, materials,
and finished quality. Interior finishes, features, and amenities may differ
from those provided in the market rate units, so as long as the finishes,
features, and amenities are durable, of good quality, compatible with the
market rate units, and consistent with contemporary standards for new housing.
   (C)   Number of bedrooms in a development should average 2.2 rooms per unit
for multi-family housing.
   (D)   Number of bedrooms in a development should average 3.2 rooms per unit
for single-family housing.
   (E)   Minimum unit sizes for single-family, including duplex and triplex,
are defined as one-bedroom unit at 950 square feet with one bathroom, two-
bedroom unit at 1,260 square feet with two bathrooms, three-bedroom unit at
1,380 square feet with two bathrooms, and four-bedroom units at 1,500 square
feet with two bathrooms.
   (F)   Minimum unit sizes for multi-family are defined as one bedroom unit at
596 square feet with one bathroom, two-bedroom unit at 801 square feet with
minimum of one bathroom, three-bedroom unit at 1,027 square feet with two
bathrooms, four-bedroom unit 1,232 square feet with a minimum of two bathrooms.
   (G)   All building permits for inclusionary units in a phase of a
residential development shall be issued concurrently with, or prior to,
issuance of building permits for the market rate units, and the inclusionary
units shall be constructed concurrently with, or prior to, construction of the
market rate units. Occupancy permits and final inspections for inclusionary
units in a phase of a residential development shall be approved concurrently
with, or prior to, approval of occupancy permits and final inspections for the
market rate units. When alternative methods of compliance are proposed, the
Assistant Director of Planning & Building (or equivalent) may approve
alternative phasing of market rate and inclusionary units if it finds that the
proposal provides adequate security to ensure construction of the inclusionary
units. Phases of construction shall be defined as a part of the approval.
   (H)   Exemptions to or modifications of these development standards can be
reviewed by the Housing Advisory Committee and Planning Commission and approved
by the Board of Supervisors if specific conditions make adherence infeasible.
(Ord. 951, § 1(part), 2016; Ord. 1052, § 2, 2023)
§ 21.03.016 ADDITIONAL STANDARDS.
   Reserved.
(Ord. 951, § 1(part), 2016)
§ 21.03.017 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   No permit, license, subdivision approval or map, or other approval or
entitlement for a residential development shall be issued, including without
limitation a final inspection for occupancy or certificate of occupancy, until
all applicable requirements of this chapter have been satisfied.
   (B)   In the event of a violation of any provision of this chapter or any
requirement imposed pursuant to this chapter, the county may in its discretion,
in addition to all other remedies, take such enforcement action as is
authorized under the San Benito County Code and/or any other action authorized
by law or by any regulatory document, restriction or agreement executed under
this chapter.
(Ord. 866, § 1 (part), 2010; Ord. 951, § 1(part), 2016)
§ 21.03.018 MONITORING.
   (A)   Owners and occupants of property subject to restrictions pursuant to
this chapter shall permit county employees or others designated by the county
to inspect the property in order to ensure compliance with restrictions on the
property upon two business days’ advance written notice. Owners of property
subject to restrictions pursuant to this chapter shall retain all records
related to compliance with obligations under this chapter for a period not less
than five years, and make such records available to county employees or others
designated by the county for inspection and copying upon five business days’
advance written notice. The county shall be further entitled to monitor
compliance on an annual basis with this chapter as provided in the
Administrative Manual and documents executed with respect to any residential
development and/or inclusionary unit.
   (B)   Homeowners will receive an annual monitoring notice from the county to
confirm the owner occupancy requirement and prohibitions against rental of the
dwelling. The review will provide owners with an opportunity to become familiar
with the guidelines of the Inclusionary Housing Program and any changes in
adopted policies and procedures. For rental units, an annual monitoring notice
from the county will be sent to all management agencies to confirm residents
are eligible to affordable units.
   (C)   Periodic evaluation. Unless funding or staff is not available, the
Director shall at five-year intervals, or more often at the director’s
discretion, at Board request, and any time the County Housing Element is
updated as required by state law, prepare and submit to the Board of
Supervisors an evaluation of this chapter and its effects.
(Ord. 951, § 1(part), 2016; Ord. 1,014, §13, 2020)
CHAPTER 21.05: PROPERTY OWNER RELOCATION OBLIGATIONS
Section
   
21.05.001   Purpose
   
21.05.002   Findings
   
21.05.003   Definitions
   
21.05.004   Displacement
   
21.05.005   Exemptions
   
21.05.006   Owner relocation obligations
   
21.05.007   Notice to tenants
   
21.05.008   Emergency relocation assistance
   
21.05.009   Temporary relocation assistance
   
21.05.010   Long-term or permanent relocation assistance
   
21.05.011   Additional relocation obligations
   
21.05.012   Right to reoccupy
   
21.05.013   Rent maintenance
   
21.05.014   Private right of action
   
21.05.015   Public right of action
§ 21.05.001 PURPOSE.
   This is a chapter enacted to provide assistance to residential tenants who
may be displaced from their current housing due to its substandard condition,
violations of the housing codes, county code, fire codes or the unlawful
existence, use or occupancy of the unit.
(1966 Code, § 19A-1) (Ord. 774, § 1(part))
§ 21.05.002 FINDINGS.
   This chapter is enacted in recognition of the following facts and for the
following reasons.
   (A)   Some residential rental units and single room occupancy buildings in
the County of San Benito have been found to have code violations, which
threaten the health, life and safety, of occupants. Hazardous living conditions
often require that the tenant vacate the structure to allow for repairs or
demolition of the structure.
   (B)   These code violations are often caused by the negligence, deferred
maintenance, or the illegal use of the structure as a residence by the property
owner. Code violations may breach the owner’s implied warranty of habitability,
and could constitute constructive eviction of the tenant household from its
residence.
   (C)   The difficulty of finding affordable replacement housing and the
burden of incurring moving-related expenses creates a financial hardship for
tenant households, particularly those who are low-income.
   (D)   Relocation benefits and assistance are necessary to ensure that
displaced tenants secure safe, sanitary and decent replacement housing.
   (E)   Property owners who fail to properly maintain residential rental
properties, and/or create residential units illegally should bear
responsibility for the hardships their actions (or lack of action) create for
the tenant. Relocation is a necessary cost of code enforcement that should be
the responsibility of the property owner, and the county should be reimbursed
by the responsible owner for any of these costs that it incurs in the code
enforcement process.
   (F)   The requirement to pay relocation costs under this chapter will
encourage property owners to correct code violations and protect the public
health, safety and general welfare of the residents of the county.
   (G)   The level of payments provided for in this chapter is reflective of
the actual costs of relocation likely to be incurred by displaced tenant
households, in particular, moving costs and the cost of first and last months’
rent, as well as other costs, both monetary and non-monetary, associated with
involuntary dislocation.
(1966 Code, § 19A-2) (Ord. 774, § 1(part))
§ 21.05.003 DEFINITIONS.
   Unless specifically defined below, words or phrases used in this chapter
shall be interpreted so as to give them the meaning they have in common usage
and to give this chapter its most reasonable application.
   BUILDING OFFICIAL. The officer designated by the county to enforce the
county codes as well as designees of such person.
   CODE ENFORCEMENT ACTIVITIES. Activities initiated by the county to determine
the condition of a building and require the property owner to make necessary
repairs, to vacate the building or to take other action as necessary to bring
the property into compliance with applicable state or local zoning, building or
housing standards, including but not limited to standards contained in the San
Benito County Code, the Uniform Fire Code, Uniform Housing Code and the Health
and Safety Codes as adopted by the state, county and other technical codes
adopted and enforced by the county for existing residential properties,
including codes addressing dangerous or hazardous buildings. CODE ENFORCEMENT
ACTIVITIES shall include drug nuisance abatement actions taken by the county
pursuant to Cal. Health and Safety Code §§ 11570 et seq. The District
Attorney’s Office may enforce the provisions of this chapter.
   DAY. Calendar day, unless otherwise specified.
   DECLARATION OF SUBSTANDARD. A declaration, notice or order executed by the
Director of Planning or his or her designee under the authority of the San
Benito County Code or other provision of law declaring that a property is
substandard, unsafe and/or a public nuisance.
   DIRECTOR OF PLANNING. The officer designated by the county to enforce the
county codes as well as designees of such person.
   DISPLACEMENT. The state of removing from the usual or proper place.
   ENFORCEMENT ACTION. The issuance of a notice of summary abatement, notice of
hearing on proposed abatement, administrative penalty, nuisance abatement order
or other administrative action, or the filing of a civil complaint or criminal
citation or complaint.
   NON-COMPLYING BUILDING OR UNIT. A building, room or rental unit in the
county which has been found or determined by an authorized enforcement official
of the county to be substandard, blighted, unsafe, a public nuisance, a drug
nuisance or otherwise not in conformance with applicable state or local zoning,
building or housing standards, including but not limited to standards contained
in the San Benito County Codes, the Uniform Fire Code, Uniform Housing Code and
the Health and Safety Codes as adopted by the county, and other technical codes
adopted and enforced by the county for existing residential properties,
including codes addressing dangerous or hazardous buildings.
   NON-COMPLYING CONDITION or NON- COMPLIANCE. Any physical condition or use
with respect to the building, room or unit.
   NOTICE TO ABATE LIFE-THREATENING CONDITION. A notice and/or order to abate a
substandard or non-complying condition issued by the county pursuant to its
code enforcement activities, however the notice or order is denominated, that
indicates on its face that a life-threatening condition is present.
   NOTICE TO VACATE. A notice and/or order, however denominated, issued by the
county or a court of competent jurisdiction to a property owner and/or a tenant
household pursuant to the county’s code enforcement activities requiring that a
residential building, unit or room be vacated, either immediately or at some
future specified time, as a result of a determination that the building, unit
or room is substandard, blighted, unsafe or a public nuisance.
   NOTICE OF VIOLATION. A notice, including but not limited to, a compliance
order, issued by the county stating that a unit, due to its substandard
condition, is in violation of the housing, building or fire codes, or stating
that a unit shall be vacated because its existence, use or occupancy is
unlawful under state law or applicable county code.
   OWNER. Any person who owns legal title, in whole or in part, to a unit
subject to this chapter.
   TENANT. Tenant in the singular or in the plural refers to a person or
persons who rent or are otherwise in lawful tenancy of a unit under the terms
of tenancy or with the knowledge or consent of the owner or the owner’s agent.
   UNIT. Any dwelling, room or space, which is the permanent or customary and
usual residence from which a tenant is displaced.
(1966 Code, § 19A-3) (Ord. 774, § 1(part))
§ 21.05.004 DISPLACEMENT.
   A tenant is displaced for the purposes of this chapter if a unit must be
vacated as provided in this section.
   (A)   Following an enforcement action and either:
      (1)   The owner or owner’s agent requests the vacation because the unit
is being rehabilitated to bring it into compliance with the provisions of this
code following the receipt by the owner or owner’s agent of a notice of
violation; or
      (2)   The unit is being rehabilitated to bring it into compliance with
the provisions of this code cited in a notice of violation because substandard
conditions interfere with the habitability of the unit and the county
determines that the substandard condition affects the health and safety of the
tenant.
   (B)   Because the unit or the building which contains the unit has been
ordered vacated either by the county or a court order due to the substandard
condition of the unit or the unlawful existence, use or occupancy of the unit
under state law or county code.
(1966 Code, § 19A-4) (Ord. 774, § 1(part))
§ 21.05.005 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   An owner shall not be required to provide relocation assistance under
this chapter if any of the following conditions are shown:
      (1)   The property owner can demonstrate by clear and convincing evidence
that the non-complying condition was created by the tenant household or the
tenant household’s guests or invitees, and was not created by the property
owner or the owner’s agent neglect from undertaking maintenance or repairs that
would have prevented or rectified the non-complying condition;
      (2)   The property owner can demonstrate by clear and convincing evidence
that vacation on the unit or room was due primarily to a cause other than
either:
         (a)   The noncomplying condition;
         (b)   The county’s or court’s determination that the rental unit, room
or building was a non-complying building or unit; or
         (c)   The need to make repairs to rectify any non-complying condition.
      (3)   The tenant constructed, used or occupied a unit whose existence,
use or occupancy is unlawful, as cited in a notice of violation, without the
actual or implied consent or knowledge of the owner or agent of the owner;
      (4)   The property owner can demonstrate by clear and convincing evidence
that the tenant household unreasonably prevented the owner or the owner’s agent
from undertaking maintenance or repairs that would have prevented or rectified
the non- complying condition;
      (5)   All noncomplying conditions are corrected, as determined by the
county, prior to the time the tenant household has taken definitive steps to
move;
      (6)   The notice to vacate, notice to abate life-threatening condition or
declaration of substandard is rescinded or withdrawn by the county or the court
or is overturned on appeal prior to the time the tenant household has taken
definitive steps to move;
      (7)   The property owner offers in writing to move the tenant household
immediately into a replacement unit or room in the same building, and all of
the following are true:
         (a)   The replacement unit or room is at least substantially
comparable in size, condition and amenities as the former unit or room;
         (b)   The replacement unit or room complies with all applicable
zoning, building and housing codes;
         (c)   The replacement rent is no greater than the rent charged for the
former unit or room; and
         (d)   The offer was made prior to the time the tenant household had
taken definitive steps to move.
      (8)   The tenant household is required to vacate the unit or room due
solely to damage resulting from a natural disaster, earthquake, fire, flood,
civil disturbance or accident outside the control of the property owner, if:
         (a)   The vacation is required within six months of such event; and
         (b)   The property owner can demonstrate that such damage was not
caused by the acts or the negligence of the property owner or by a preexisting
condition in the building in violation of applicable building, housing, fire or
other health and safety codes;
      (9)   The tenants are displaced as a result of a lawful eviction; or
      (10)   Tenants who have received relocation benefits and have re-rented a
substandard structure within a 12-month period.
   (B)   Any provision of a lease or rental agreement for a rental unit or room
in which the tenant household agrees to modify or waive any of its rights under
this chapter, including its rights to relocation payments, shall be void as
contrary to public policy.
   (C)   The owner shall have the burden of proving that any exemption in this
section is applicable.
(1966 Code, § 19A-5) (Ord. 774, § 1(part))
§ 21.05.006 OWNER RELOCATION OBLIGATIONS.
   (A)   When tenants are displaced, the owner of the unit shall provide
relocation assistance to the tenants as specified in this chapter.
   (B)   Any payments required under this chapter shall be made by the owner
directly to the county or the tenant at the county’s discretion.
   (C)   A county fund is available when the property owner’s whereabouts are
unknown and the property owner is unavailable for contact. The property owner
shall be required to reimburse the county for these relocation costs and shall
be subject to a lien against its property for the costs incurred by the county
for tenant relocation.
(1966 Code, § 19A-6) (Ord. 774, § 1(part))
§ 21.05.007 NOTICE TO TENANTS.
   (A)   A written summary of an owner’s obligation and a tenant’s rights under
this chapter shall be attached to or included in any order to immediately
vacate any unit or with any notice of violation and may be included with an
enforcement action issued by the county.
   (B)   The owner shall deliver the summary of an owner’s obligation and a
tenant’s rights under this chapter to tenants of all units subject to the
enforcement action by personal delivery, or registered or certified mail within
24 hours of the receipt by owner or owner’s agent of the enforcement action or
the county notice or court order to vacate a unit.
   (C)   In addition to the notices provided for in divisions (A) and (B) of
this section, the county may post a copy of the summary of tenants’ rights in a
visible location on the building, property or unit subject to the notice of
violation or court order to immediately vacate.
   (D)   Any notice required by this chapter to be delivered to tenants shall
contain the following notice translated in Spanish, in type of at least ten-
point:
“This Notice is Important. You May be Entitled to Relocation Assistance. Please
have it translated. For more information, please call the Code Enforcement
Officer at the County of San Benito, 3224 Southside Road, Hollister. Telephone
(831) 637-5313.”
(1966 Code, § 19A-7) (Ord. 774, § 1(part))
§ 21.05.008 EMERGENCY RELOCATION ASSISTANCE.
   (A)   The Director of Planning or his or her designee, or other authorized
official, shall contact the property manager or the property owner, in the same
manner in which the tenant is to report problems with the unit. If the owner
can not explain why the tenant should not be relocated consistent with this
chapter or how an immediate repair for the unit is possible, the Director shall
order the relocation. The Director of Planning or other authorized official
designated to enforce the county’s code enforcement activities, at his or her
sole discretion, may authorize immediate payment of relocation benefits by the
county in the amounts authorized by this chapter to an eligible tenant
household if the director of planning or other authorized agent has determined
that immediate vacation of the rental unit or room is necessary due to public
health and safety concerns. The property owner shall be notified subsequently
in writing of any relocation payments by the county under this section.
Payments under this section to the tenant household may be provided in meal
vouchers and prearranged lodging by the county with local hotels and
restaurants at the county’s discretion.
   (B)   The property owner shall be required to reimburse the county for these
relocation costs, and any administrative cost associated with the relocation,
and shall be subject to a lien against its property for this amount, as set
forth above.
      (1)   Where an owner is required by the county or a court order to have a
unit vacated immediately, or where vacation is required to enable compliance
with a notice of violation from the county with less than ten days notice
because of imminent potential harm to the health and safety of tenants, the
owner shall provide to the tenants the relocation assistance required by this
section until such time as the tenants are able to reoccupy the unit or until
the benefits set forth in §§
21.05.009 or
21.05.010 are provided.
      (2)   The owner, at the owner’s expense, shall provide the following
relocation assistance and benefits under this section:
         (a)   Alternative safe and legal temporary housing for the tenants at
no additional rent or cost to the tenants than previously paid by the tenants
or the advance payment of the fair market rent as established by the most
current U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) schedule for
fair market rents for a unit of comparable size in the same general area as the
unit and other related costs for alternative safe and legal temporary housing
for the tenants.
         (b)   Any additional necessary employment or education transportation
costs to the tenants arising as a result of the displacement.
         (c)   If the alternative housing required in this section does not
contain furnishings, furnishings appropriate for the tenants in the alternative
housing is required.
         (d)   Reasonable security for all of the tenants’ furnishings and
other personal property remaining in the unit until the tenants reoccupy the
unit.
      (3)   (a)   To the extent feasible, the owner shall provide any
alternative housing required under this section in a location in the vicinity
of the unit.
         (b)   The relocation assistance required under this section shall be
provided by the owner by the time of the displacement of the tenants.
(1966 Code, § 19A-8) (Ord. 774, § 1(part))
§ 21.05.009 TEMPORARY RELOCATION ASSISTANCE.
   (A)   If tenants are displaced on a non-emergency basis, either because the
existence, use or occupancy of a unit is unlawful or because of repair or
rehabilitation of a unit, and the tenants are expected to be able to reoccupy
the unit within 60 days from the date of displacement, the owner shall provide
to the tenants the relocation assistance required by this section until such
time as the tenants are able to reoccupy the unit or until the benefits set
forth in this section are provided.
   (B)   The owner, at the owner’s expense, shall provide the following
relocation assistance and benefits under this section:
      (1)   Alternative safe and legal temporary housing for the tenants at no
additional rent or cost than previously paid by the tenants, or payment to the
tenants of the difference between the rent paid on the unit and the fair market
rent for alternative safe and legal temporary housing as established by the
most current HUD schedule for fair market rents for a unit of comparable size
in the same general area as the unit for the tenant for the first 30 days of
displacement and related costs, and the full rent costs thereafter until such
time as the owner’s obligation terminates under §
21.05.011;
      (2)   Any additional necessary employment or education transportation
costs to the tenants arising as a result of the displacement;
      (3)   Furnishings appropriate for the tenants in the alternative housing
required in this section; and
      (4)   Reasonable security for all of the tenants’ furnishings and other
personal property remaining in the unit until the tenants reoccupy the unit.
   (C)   To the extent feasible, the owner shall provide any alternative
housing required under this section in a location in the vicinity of the unit.
   (D)   The owner shall provide advance written notice of the short-term
displacement to the tenants by personal service or by certified mail not less
than ten business days prior to any non-emergency short-term displacement.
Displacement shall not occur during any period for which rent was due and paid.
   (E)   The relocation assistance required under this section shall be
provided by the owner prior to the displacement of the tenants.
(1966 Code, § 19A-9) (Ord. 774, § 1(part))
§ 21.05.010 LONG-TERM OR PERMANENT RELOCATION ASSISTANCE.
   (A)   If the owner anticipates that displacement shall continue or if
displacement actually continues for more than 60 days, the owner shall provide
to the tenants the relocation assistance required in this section.
   (B)   The owner, at the owner’s expense, shall provide the following
relocation assistance and benefits under this section:
      (1)   Alternative safe and legal housing for the tenants at no additional
rent or cost than previously paid by the tenants for a period of three months
from the date of displacement, or payment to the tenants of replacement housing
costs which shall be the greater of:
         (a)   An amount equal to three months fair market rent for an
alternative housing unit, as established by the most current HUD schedule for
fair market rents for a unit of comparable size in the same general area as the
unit; or
         (b)   An amount equal to three months of the rental amount for the
unit.
      (2)   If the tenant elects not to reoccupy the unit or if the unit cannot
lawfully be reoccupied, return to the tenants any security deposit or cleaning
fee not permitted to be retained by the owner under applicable law within the
period specified under applicable law.
      (3)   Moving expenses of the tenants for any displacement under this
section as set forth in a schedule established from time to time by resolution
of the Board of Supervisors.
      (4)   Any additional necessary employment or education transportation
costs to the tenants arising as a result of the displacement for a maximum of
three months from the date of displacement.
      (5)   Reasonable security for all of the tenants’ furnishings and other
personal property remaining in the unit for a maximum of three months from the
date of displacement.
   (C)   To the extent feasible, the owner shall provide any alternative
housing required under this section in a location in the vicinity of the unit.
   (D)   The relocation assistance required under this section shall be
provided by the owner at least 30 days prior to the displacement of the
tenants.
   (E)   The relocation assistance required by §§
21.05.008,
21.05.009 and
21.05.010 shall be cumulative.
(1966 Code, § 19A-10) (Ord. 774, § 1(part))
§ 21.05.011 ADDITIONAL RELOCATION OBLIGATIONS.
   (A)   A displaced tenant and the owner may agree to alternatives to the
relocation assistance required under this chapter only by a separate written
agreement signed by the tenant and the owner which contains an acknowledgment
by the tenant that the tenant has received a notice of the rights under this
chapter and that the tenant understands those rights.
   (B)   The relocation assistance required by the owner under this chapter
shall be a separate requirement and obligation provided to tenants in addition
to any other assistance, refunds or payments available under any other
provisions of this code or other applicable law.
   (C)   The relocation assistance required of the owner under this chapter
shall not affect any rights of the owner under any other provisions of this
code or other applicable law.
(1966 Code, § 19A-11) (Ord. 774, § 1(part))
§ 21.05.012 RIGHT TO REOCCUPY.
   (A)   To the extent that a unit can legally accommodate the displaced
tenants, the tenants shall have the right to reoccupy the unit from which the
tenants were displaced when the substandard or otherwise unlawful conditions of
the unit are corrected.
   (B)   On or before the time the tenant vacates the unit, the owner shall
provide written notice by personal delivery, or registered or certified mail,
advising the tenant of the right to reoccupy the unit once the substandard or
otherwise unlawful condition is corrected. The notice shall include a statement
regarding the tenant’s obligation to provide the owner with the information
requested in division (C) of this section and the consequences of the failure
to do so.
   (C)   Unless the owner has provided the alternative temporary housing,
within seven days after vacating the unit the tenants shall provide the owner
with their current address to be used for future notification by the owner.
Failure to provide such information in writing to the owner shall terminate
their right to reoccupy the unit.
   (D)   As soon as possible after the unit is available for the tenants to
reoccupy the unit, the owner shall provide written notice to the tenants by
personal delivery, or registered or certified mail, advising the tenants of the
availability of the unit. The owner shall make the unit available to the tenant
for a period of 30 days following the date the tenants receive notice of the
availability of the unit. The notice shall include the current address of the
owner or owner’s agent to which the tenants must send a written statement of
their desire to exercise the right to reoccupy the unit. The notice shall
include a statement regarding the tenant’s obligation to provide the owner with
the information requested in division (E) and the consequences of the failure
to do so.
   (E)   Within seven days after receipt of the notice of the availability of
the unit, the tenants shall notify the owner in writing that the tenants are
exercising the right to reoccupy the unit. Failure to so notify the owner shall
terminate their right to reoccupy the unit.
(1966 Code, § 19A-12) (Ord. 774, § 1(part))
§ 21.05.013 RENT MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   If tenants exercise the right to reoccupy a unit as provided in §
21.05.012 of this chapter, the owner shall not increase the amount of rent paid
by the tenants prior to the date of their displacement for a period of 12
months after the date the tenants reoccupy the unit.
   (B)   This section shall not apply to any unit for which rent is subsidized
by any government agency.
(1966 Code, § 19A-13) (Ord. 774, § 1(part))
§ 21.05.014 PRIVATE RIGHT OF ACTION.
   (A)   Tenants who are displaced may bring an action against an owner for
damages, injunctive or declaratory relief or any other appropriate action, in a
court of competent jurisdiction to enforce the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Tenants who prevail in such an action shall be entitled to recover
from the owner damages, including the relocation assistance provided for under
this chapter; costs, including reasonable attorney fees; and such other relief
as determined by the court. In addition to all other damages or other relief,
the court may award the tenants a civil penalty of up to $1,000 for each
violation of this chapter.
   (C)   The remedies provided by this chapter are in addition to any other
legal or equitable remedies and are not intended to be exclusive.
(1966 Code, § 19A-14) (Ord. 774, § 1(part))
§ 21.05.015 PUBLIC RIGHT OF ACTION.
   The District Attorney may criminally or civilly enforce the provisions of
this chapter pursuant to §§
1.03.002 and
1.03.003 of the county code.
(1966 Code, § 19A-15) (Ord. 774, § 1(part))
CHAPTER 21.07: (RESERVED)
CHAPTER 21.09: TRANSFER OF DEVELOPMENT CREDITS
Section
   
21.09.001   Findings
   
21.09.002   Purpose
   
21.09.003   General principles
   
21.09.004   Sending areas
   
21.09.005   Receiving areas
   
21.09.006   Mix of uses and densities
   
21.09.007   Requirement to report the sale of TDC's
   
21.09.008   Open space and agricultural easement
   
21.09.009   Designation of “Open Space and Agricultural Lands of Special
Significance to the Community”
   
21.09.010   Public purchase of TDC's and land
§ 21.09.001 FINDINGS.
   It is hereby found and determined as follows:
   (A)   Permanent loss of productive agricultural land. The county possesses
significant prime agricultural lands. Such agricultural lands are a local,
state and national resource, which should be preserved for future generations.
Historically, agriculture has been, and remains today, the leading industry in
the county. Agricultural land is being lost to development, and the continued
viability of commercial agriculture in San Benito County is threatened by
inappropriately placed development.
   (B)   Cost of growth in rural areas. When new development takes place in
rural rather than urbanized areas, the cost to tax payers to provide services
and infrastructure is magnified. Resources such as law enforcement and fire
protection are spread over a larger geographic area. The cost of extending and
maintaining roads and utilities increases. Development in rural areas affects
ground water quality and increases the need to construct and manage new and
separate wastewater disposal facilities.
   (C)   Continued growth. Population growth and development must address the
issues of loss of agricultural resources, ability to maintain and improve
roads, lack of timely response to police and fire emergencies, and groundwater
quality.
   (D)   Steps must be taken to preserve San Benito County's rural character,
open space, historic and scenic areas, to ensure growth in an orderly and
deliberate pace, and to allow the county to delineate areas where new
development should and should not occur. Otherwise, current five acre zoning of
prime agricultural land will likely result in its conversion to large lot
residential uses.
(Ord. 865, § 1 (part), 2010)
§ 21.09.002 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The TDC Principles and TDC Ordinance are designed to provide an added
mechanism of development options while preserving the agricultural resource of
the county.
   (B)   In the Land Use Element of San Benito County's General Plan, Policy 7
reads: It is the policy of the county to consider transfer of development
credits (TDC) programs, land trusts, and purchase of development credits (PDC)
programs to provide financial incentives to protect and preserve agricultural
soil resources and to protect the integrity of important agricultural areas for
future use.
   (C)   Actions under Policy 7 include;
      (1)   Explore identifying areas for potential TDC and/or DC programs.
      (2)   Investigate establishing a density bonus to developers that
transfers development credits from prime agricultural lands to existing
communities and residential areas.
      (3)   Encourage General Plan amendments that will increase population
densities to include receiving areas.
   (D)   In the Conservation and Open Space Element of San Benito County's
General Plan, Goal 5 is to protect and preserve the agricultural identity of
the county.
   (E)   Goal 6 is to continue agriculture as an industry in the county and to
preserve agricultural resources for future generations. The objectives listed
under Goal 6 are:
      (1)   To encourage and protect agriculture as a viable industry in the
county.
      (2)   To provide financial incentives to protect the most productive
soils resources.
      (3)   To stabilize land values for persons interested in purchasing
agricultural land while providing economic incentives to landowners to avoid
conversion of row crop and orchard land.
   (F)   Policy 28. Maintain viable sizes for agriculture. It shall be the
policy of the county to assure that units of land which are suitable for
agricultural purposes are maintained.
(Ord. 865, § 1 (part), 2010)
§ 21.09.003 GENERAL PRINCIPLES.
   (A)   TDC's primary goal. The transferable development credit (TDC)
program's primary goal is to preserve as much of the following land as possible
for the various uses of the agricultural industry in the county, and for
habitat, view corridors and open space:
      (1)   Agricultural Productive (AP), currently zoned one home per five
acres, and
      (2)   Rural (R), currently zoned one home per five acres, and
      (3)   Agricultural Rangeland (AR), currently zoned one home per 40 acres.
   (B)   Voluntary. The TDC program must be voluntary.
   (C)   No gain or loss of existing rights.
      (1)   With exceptions to encourage affordable housing, and to encourage
the preservation of the open space most highly valued by the community, the TDC
program should result in no net increase or decrease in the maximum number of
homes presently allowed within the county plus the two cities, nor should it
deprive a family of their existing rights to build the presently allowed number
of homes on their property. The goal of the TDC program is to encourage the
property owners of AP, R and AR zoned land to transfer all or a portion of
their presently allowed new homes to a parcel within a receiving area and
thereby preserve an even greater portion of their property for open space and
agricultural uses.
      (2)   However, homeowners may also develop their property as currently
allowed without invoking the TDC ordinance, or its provisions.
   (D)   General plan amendment not required. In order to accomplish the goals
of the TDC ordinance, a General Plan amendment or zone change is not required
in order to increase density when utilizing TDCs.
(Ord. 865, § 1 (part), 2010)
§ 21.09.004 SENDING AREAS.
   (A)   AP, R and AR zoned land. Except for the designated receiving areas,
all AP, R and AR zoned areas outside of the City of Hollisters General Plan
planning area for non-agricultural land uses, and San Juan Bautista's adopted
Sphere of Influence are hereby eligible to be designated "Sending Areas".
   (B)   Determine the number of on site buildable units. The owner(s) of a
parcel proposing development on their parcel must first provide sufficient
topographic and geologic evidence to the County Planning Department to allow it
to "certify" the number of homes the owner may build on their parcel. The
number of buildable units shall become that parcel's "Certified Buildable
Rights". In order to encourage applicants to transfer their TDCs to a receiving
area, an applicant in a sending area may request this determination prior to
submitting a full development application. This determination by staff may be
appealed to the County Planning Commission and then to the Board of
Supervisors.
   (C)   Transferable development credits. "Transferable Development Credits
(TDC's)" shall be determined as follows:
      (1)   Applicants desiring to establish their TDC rights shall be required
to submit to the County Planning Department an assessors parcel map showing the
acreage of their parcel, or a record of survey prepared by a registered civil
engineer, and a map of the parcel prepared by a registered civil engineer
displaying the topographic features of the property and a preliminary title
report showing all easements. The source of the topographic information may be
either the highest resolution USGS topographic map available or an aerial
survey with more detailed topographic information.
      (2)   The applicant's registered civil engineer shall note on said map:
         (a)   The zoning of the parcel;
         (b)   The acreage within FEMA adopted 100 year flood plains;
         (c)   The acreage with slopes greater than 30%;
         (d)   The acreage not within the Alquist Priolo fault hazard zone;
         (e)   The acreage of the parcel not within a 100 year flood plain and
not within a slope
greater than 30% and not within the Alquist Priolo zone;
         (f)   The number of existing homes on the property;
         (g)   All existing acres with open space, agricultural, or other
easements.
      (3)   The number of TDCs assigned each parcel shall be determined as
follows:
         (a)   One full TDC shall be allocated for each five acres in an AP or
R zone and one TDC shall be assigned for each 40 acres in an AR zone which are
outside of an adopted 100 year flood plain outside areas with a slope greater
than 30% and outside the Alquist Priolo zone. One TDC shall be deducted for
each existing residence within these areas.
         (b)   Three additional bonus TDCs shall be assigned to each five acres
in an AP or R zone and each 40 acres in an AP zone which has been designated by
the Board of Supervisors as "Open Space and Agricultural Lands of Special
Significance to the Community".
         (c)   Bonus TDCs on lands designated "Open Space and Agricultural
Lands of Special Significance to the Community" may be sold only in return for
an easement in perpetuity.
      (4)   No TDCs shall be allocated to the acres with an existing open space
and/or agricultural easement.
      (5)   Round up to the next whole number if the result is 0.50 or more,
otherwise round down.
      (6)   The county shall record a document certifying the parcel's total
assigned transferable development credits. When TDC's are sold or added to the
parcel, a document shall be prepared by the county and recorded to that effect.
A form prepared by the Planning Department used to certify a parcel's total
assigned transferable development credits, and a form used to document the
deletion or addition of TDC credits associated with a specific parcel shall be
documents subject to recordation by the County Clerk Recorder as authorized by
the County of San Benito, a general law county. An owner of real property shall
be ultimately responsible for ensuring that the TDC's recorded against their
parcel are correct and accurate and shall notify the County Planning Director,
in writing, within 30 days if the recorded TDC's of the owner's property are
incorrect or need amendment.
      (7)   The number of TDC's assigned to a parcel at any given time shall be
that parcel's "Certified TDC Rights".
      (8)   TDCs may be purchased by any individual, partnership, corporation
or organization and held for resale.
      (9)   Not less than 50% of TDCs shall be purchased or otherwise obtained
from lands designed "Open Space and Agricultural Lands of Special Significance
to the Community".
(Ord. 865, § 1 (part), 2010)
§ 21.09.005 RECEIVING AREAS.
   Receiving areas can be designated within the county's existing RU, RR, RT,
Urban and Area of Special Studies as identified in the county's General Plan
where they will minimize the negative impact on achieving the stated goals of
the TDC program. Those lands designated for non-agricultural land uses on the
City of Hollister General Plan Land Use Plan shall be excluded from receiving
areas unless there is a joint approval by the San Benito County Board of
Supervisors and City of Hollister City Council of the receiving area(s).
(Ord. 865, § 1 (part), 2010)
§ 21.09.006 MIX OF USES AND DENSITIES.
   A wide mix of uses and densities should be encouraged in the receiving
areas.
(Ord. 865, § 1 (part), 2010)
§ 21.09.007 REQUIREMENTS TO REPORT THE SALE OF TDC'S.
   The sale of all TDCs shall be reported to the county within 30 days of the
sale by any seller and any buyer of TDCs, on a form approved by the Planning
Department. The parcel(s) from which the TDCs have been purchased shall be
clearly identified. That parcel's "Certified TDC Rights" and the TDCs purchased
and the number of TDCs remaining on the parcel shall be stated. The price paid
for the TDCs purchased, including all forms of compensation, shall be disclosed
to facilitate establishing a market price and to provide the information to
base the price of the bonus TDCs assigned to the receiving area. If the TDC
consisted of a gift, in whole or in part, that fact shall be disclosed. The new
owner of the TDCs shall be stated. When the new owner of the TDCs assigns the
TDCs to a new parcel, the new parcel shall be identified and the parcel's
current "Certified TDC Rights" and added TDC rights shall be shown. The County
Planning Department shall "certify" the changed "Certified TDC Rights" of each
parcel.
(Ord. 865, § 1 (part), 2010)
§ 21.09.008 OPEN SPACE AND AGRICULTURAL EASEMENT.
   Any open space and agricultural easement on a remainder parcel shall
restrict the use of the property in perpetuity to only open space and
agricultural uses as presently defined in the county zoning code.
(Ord. 865, § 1 (part), 2010)
§ 21.09.009 DESIGNATION OF "OPEN SPACE AND AGRICULTURAL LANDS OF SPECIAL
SIGNIFICANCE TO THE COMMUNITY".
   A list of approximately 9,000 acres which have the highest open space and
agricultural potential (as identified by the TDC Committee) of the remaining
unpreserved lands or which could "fill in" blocks of land previously preserved,
("Open Space and Agricultural Lands of Special Significance to the Community")
should be developed and adopted by the Board of Supervisors. A committee should
be appointed each year to recommend additions and deletions to maintain a
minimum of 9,000 acres on this list. The "Open Space and Agricultural Lands of
Special Significance to the Community" shall be given preference in considering
use of TDCs.
(Ord. 865, § 1 (part), 2010)
§ 21.09.010 PUBLIC PURCHASE OF TDC'S AND LAND.
   The Board may create an Agricultural and Open Space Conservation Agency or
request that all sellers and buyers of TDCs report the sale or purchase of a
TDC to an existing agency. Until such an agency is created or selected by the
Board of Supervisors, all reports required by this chapter shall be provided to
the Planning Department of San Benito County.
(Ord. 865, § 1 (part), 2010)
TITLE 23: SUBDIVISIONS
   Chapter
      
23.01.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
23.03.   MAPS REQUIRED
      
23.05.   PRELIMINARY MAPS
      
23.07.   TENTATIVE MAPS
      
23.09.   FINAL MAPS
      
23.11.   PARCEL MAPS
      
23.13.   VESTING TENTATIVE MAPS
      
23.15.   DEDICATIONS, RESERVATIONS AND DEVELOPMENT FEES
      
23.17.   IMPROVEMENTS
      
23.19.   REVERSIONS TO ACREAGE
      
23.21.   PARCEL MAPS AND UNMERGERS (RESERVED)
      
23.23.   ENFORCEMENT
      
23.25.   DESIGN REQUIREMENTS
      
23.27.   FIRE DESIGN STANDARDS
      
23.29.   ROADS STANDARDS
      
23.31.   IMPROVEMENT STANDARDS
CHAPTER 23.01: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
23.01.001   Citation and authority
   
23.01.002   Purpose
   
23.01.003   Application
   
23.01.004   Definitions
   
23.01.005   Exclusions
   
23.01.006   Modification of requirements
   
23.01.007   Fees and deposits
§ 23.01.001 CITATION AND AUTHORITY.
   This title is adopted pursuant to Article XI, § 7, of the California
Constitution and the Subdivision Map Act (Cal. Gov’t Code §§ 66410 et seq.),
and may be cited as the “Subdivision Ordinance of the County of San Benito”.
(1966 Code, § 17-1) (Ord. 617, § 2(part))
§ 23.01.002 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The purpose of this title is to implement and supplement the
provisions of the Subdivision Map Act, as it presently exists or may hereafter
be amended, regulating the division of land within the county.
   (B)   Specifically, this title is intended to regulate and control the
design and improvement of subdivisions, the form and content of all required
maps, and the procedures to be followed in securing the official approval of
the county regarding the maps.
   (C)   To accomplish this purpose, the regulations contained in this title
are determined to be necessary to preserve the public health, safety and
general welfare; to promote orderly growth and development; to promote open
space, conservation, protection and proper use of land; and to ensure provision
for adequate infrastructure, traffic circulation, utilities and services in the
county.
(1966 Code, § 17-2) (Ord. 617, § 2(part))
§ 23.01.003 APPLICATION.
   The regulations set forth in this title shall apply to all or parts of
subdivisions within the county and to the preparation of subdivision maps and
other maps provided for by the Subdivision Map Act and this title. All
subdivisions located wholly or partially within the county shall be created,
and all subdivision maps and other maps provided for by the Subdivision Map Act
and this title shall be prepared and presented for approval, as provided for in
this title. The County Engineer shall be authorized and empowered to enforce
the provisions of this title.
(1966 Code, § 17-3) (Ord. 617, § 2(part))
§ 23.01.004 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Except where alternate definitions are provided in this title or the
context clearly requires a different usage, the definitions of words and
phrases set forth in the Subdivision Map Act are hereby incorporated by
reference as though fully set forth herein.
   (B)   Except where the context clearly requires a different usage, the
following words and phrases, whenever used in this title, shall be construed as
defined in this section.
      APPROVED ACCESS. Right of access from a public road to the parcel or lot
under consideration by fee or easement meeting the standards of the county.
      BOARD OF SUPERVISORS. The Board of Supervisors of the county.
      BUILDING ENVELOPE. The area within which all main and accessory buildings
are constructed, placed or erected.
      CERTIFICATE OF COMPLIANCE. A document prepared and issued by the county,
and intended for recordation, certifying that a unit or units of real property
within the county are lots lawfully created and existing in compliance with the
Subdivision Map Act and this title, and are capable of sale, lease or financing
without further proceedings under this title.
      CLERK OF THE BOARD. The Clerk of the Board of Supervisors of the county.
      CODE. The code of the county.
      COMMUNITY APARTMENT PROJECT. As provided in Cal. Business and Professions
Code § 11004.
      CONDOMINIUM. As provided in Cal. Civil Code § 1351.
      CONVERSION. The creation of separate ownership of existing real property
together with a separate interest in space of residential, industrial or
commercial buildings.
      COUNTY COUNSEL. The County Counsel of the county.
      COUNTY ENGINEER. The County Engineer of the county.
      COUNTY RECORDER. The County Recorder of the county.
      COUNTY TAX COLLECTOR. The County Tax Collector of the county.
      COUNTY. The County of San Benito.
      DAY. A calendar day unless otherwise specified.
      DEAD-END ROAD. A road, constructed on or after January 1, 1992, that does
not have two means of access (to county standards) to a county road. A "county
road" is defined for this purpose as either existing, offered for dedication,
accepted by the county or an approved private road built to county standards.
      DEFENSIBLE SPACE. The area within the perimeter of any parcel,
development, neighborhood or community where basic wildland fire protection
practices and measures are implemented, providing the key point of defense from
an approaching wildfire or defense against encroaching wildfires or escaping
structure fires. The "perimeter", as used in this title, is the area
encompassing the parcel or parcels proposed for construction and/or
development, excluding the physical structure itself. The area is characterized
by the establishment and maintenance of emergency vehicle access, emergency
water reserves, street names and building identification, and fuel modification
measures.
      DEVELOPMENT REVIEW COMMITTEE. A committee consisting of representatives
of the following departments: San Benito County Planning, Public Works,
Assessor, Health, Water District and the appropriate Fire District.
      FINAL MAP. A map showing a subdivision of five or more parcels for which
a tentative and final map are required by the Subdivision Map Act and this
title, prepared in accordance with the provisions of the Subdivision Map Act
and this title, and designed to be recorded in the Office of the County
Recorder.
      GENERAL PLAN. The general plan of the County of San Benito as it
presently exists or may hereafter be amended.
      HOMEOWNERS ASSOCIATION. An organization of homeowners residing within a
particular area whose principal purpose is to ensure  the provision of and
maintenance of community facilities and services for the common benefit of the
residents.
      IMPROVEMENT. Specific improvements or types of improvements, the
installation of which, either by the subdivider or by a combination of the
subdivider, public agencies, private utilities or any other entity approved by
the county, is necessary to ensure consistency with, or implementation of, the
general plan, or any applicable specific plan. Improvements shall be
constructed in accordance with standard engineering specifications, where
applicable.
      LIMITED-ACCESS ROAD. A non- vehicular access collector, arterial,
expressway or freeway.
      LOT LINE ADJUSTMENT. A shift or rotation of an existing lot line or other
adjustment where a greater number of parcels than originally existed is not
created, considered in accordance with Cal. Gov't Code § 66412(d), §
23.01.005(D) of this title and Title 25 of the County Code, and recorded in the
Office of the County Recorder.
      LOT or PARCEL. A unit or portion of real property separate from other
units or portions by description, as on a final map or parcel map, or by such
other map approved by the county under the provisions of the Subdivision Map
Act and of county ordinances in effect at the time of the approval, for the
purpose of sale, lease or financing.
      MAJOR SUBDIVISION. A subdivision of five or more parcels for which a
tentative and final or parcel map are required by the Subdivision Map Act and
this title, prepared in accordance with the provisions of the Subdivision Map
Act and this title, and designed to be recorded in the Office of the County
Recorder.
      MERGER. The joining of two or more contiguous parcels of land under
common ownership into one parcel in accordance with the provisions of the
Subdivision Map Act and Chapter 23.21 of this title.
      MINOR SUBDIVISION. A subdivision of four or fewer parcels for which a
tentative and parcel map are required by the Subdivision Map Act and this
title, prepared in accordance with the provisions of the Subdivision Map Act
and this title, and designed to be recorded in the Office of the County
Recorder.
      NON-BUILDABLE AREA. A designated area of land or water that shall be
restricted in the amount and intensity of development permitted by the Planning
Commission. The designated areas shall reflect open space and resource
conservation goals to limit residential, commercial and industrial development
on productive agricultural lands, lands considered to have mineral resource
value, lands subject to periodic flood inundation, lands within identified
seismic hazard zones, steep slopes subject to landslides and/or erosion, lands
of high scenic value, lands providing important wildlife habitat, lands
considered to be of extreme fire hazard, and lands designated for park and
recreation purposes. Unless otherwise permitted by the Planning Commission,
areas designated as NON-BUILDABLE shall exclude the development of structures
intended for permanent human occupancy including, but not limited to, single-
or multiple-family dwellings, hotels, mobile home parks, schools, hospitals and
other high-occupancy institutional buildings. Roads, utilities and other urban
infrastructure may be permitted within a designated non-buildable area provided
that the Planning Commission finds that the structures will not substantially
disturb or cause the loss of important plant and animal habitat, surface water
bodies and their primary recharge zones, agricultural lands, areas containing
major mineral deposits, areas of outstanding scenic quality, areas of historic
or prehistoric value, and parks. The non-buildable designation shall also be
applied to restrict buildings, roads, utilities and other infrastructure within
areas considered to be hazardous to public health and safety including, but not
limited to, earthquake fault zones, unstable soil areas, floodplains,
watersheds and high fire-risk zones.
      NON-DEVELOPMENT AREA. A designated area of land or water that shall be
left in essentially unimproved condition for environmental  safety, resource
protection, recreational or other reason as may be specified by the Planning
Commission. Without specific exception, the designated areas shall not be
disturbed or altered by construction of structures, reconstruction of
preexisting structures, relocation or enlargement of a structure, or the
development of urban infrastructure such as roads or sewers. With the exception
of non- vehicular paths and trails, the topsoil and vegetative cover in non-
development areas shall not be disturbed by grading, cultivation, trenching or
similar construction and farming activities.
      PARCEL MAP. A map as defined in Cal. Gov't Code § 66426, subparagraphs a,
b, c and d, of the Subdivision Map Act.
      PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT. A development (other than a community apartment
project, a condominium project, or a stock cooperative) having either or both
of the following features:
         (a)   A common area is owned either by an association or in common by
the owners of the separate interests who possess appurtenant rights to the
beneficial use and enjoyment of the common area.
         (b)   A power exists in the association to enforce an obligation of an
owner of a separate interest with respect to the beneficial use and enjoyment
of the common area by means of an assessment which may become a lien upon the
separately owned lot, parcel, or area in accordance with Cal. Civil Code §
1367.
      PLANNING COMMISSION. The Planning Commission of the county.
      PLANNING DEPARTMENT. The Planning Department of the county.
      PLANNING DIRECTOR. The Planning Director of the county.
      PUBLIC FACILITY. A facility or parcel owned by a governmental or quasi-
governmental  agency, including but not limited to schools, jails, offices,
detention/retention ponds, parks and water facilities.
      PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENT. The Public Works Department of the county.
      REMAINDER. That portion of an existing parcel which is not designated on
the required map as part of the subdivision. The REMAINDER shall not be
considered as part of the subdivision but shall be shown on the required map as
part of the area surrounding the subdivision. A REMAINDER of five acres or more
need not be shown on the map and its location need not be indicated as a matter
of survey, but only by deed reference to the existing boundaries of the
REMAINDER.
      REVERSION TO ACREAGE. The dissolution of a previously approved and
recorded subdivision in accordance with the provisions of the Subdivision Map
Act and
Chapter 23.19 of this title.
      STOCK COOPERATIVE. As provided in Cal. Business and Professions Code §
11003.2.
      STREET FRONTAGE. The length of the lot line or fines that are collinear
with the street line of the abutting road and not subject to the restricted
vehicular access.
      SUBDIVISION MAP ACT. The Subdivision Map Act of the State of California
(Cal. Gov't Code §§ 66410 et seq.) as it presently exists or may hereafter be
amended.
      SUBDIVISION. The division, by any subdivider, of any unit or units of
improved or unimproved land, or any portion thereof, shown on the latest
equalized county assessment roll as a unit or as contiguous units, for the
purpose of sale, lease or financing, whether immediate or future except for
leases of agricultural land for agricultural purposes. Property shall be
considered as contiguous units, even if it is separated by roads, streets,
utility easement or railroad rights-of-way. SUBDIVISION includes a condominium
project, as defined in Cal. Civil Code  § 1351, a community apartment project,
as defined in Cal. Business and Professions Code § 11004, or the conversion of
five or more existing dwelling units to a stock cooperative, as defined in Cal.
Business and Professions Code § 11003.2. As used in this section, "agricultural
purposes" means the cultivation of food or fiber or the grazing or pasturing of
livestock.
      TENTATIVE MAP. A map made for the purpose of showing the design and
improvement of a proposed subdivision and the existing conditions in and around
it and need not be based upon an accurate or detailed final survey of the
property.
      VESTING TENTATIVE MAP. A tentative map that shall have printed
conspicuously on its face the words "Vesting Tentative Map" at the time it is
submitted in accordance with
Chapter 23.13 of this title, and is thereafter processed in accordance with the
provisions of the Subdivision Map Act and this title.
(1966 Code, §17-4) (Ord. 617, § 2(part); Ord. 855, § 1, 2010)
§ 23.01.005 EXCLUSIONS.
   This title shall not apply to:
   (A)   The financing or leasing of apartments, offices, stores or similar
space within apartment buildings, industrial buildings, commercial buildings,
mobile home parks or trailer parks;
   (B)   Mineral, oil or gas leases;
   (C)   Land dedicated for cemetery purposes under the Health and Safety Code;
   (D)   (1)   Subject to the requirements of Cal. Gov’t Code § 66412(d) and of
this division, a lot line adjustment between two or more existing adjacent
parcels, where the land taken from one parcel is added to an adjacent parcel,
and where no additional parcels are thereby created. The parcels resulting from
a lot line adjustment must conform to Titles 21 and 25 of this code.
      (2)   The Planning Commission shall limit its review and approval to
conformity to building and zoning ordinances. The Planning Commission may
impose conditions or exactions on its approval to insure conformity with county
building and zoning ordinances, to require the prepayment of real property
taxes or to facilitate the relocation of existing utilities, infrastructure or
easements.
      (3)   The lot line adjustment shall be reflected in a deed, which shall
be recorded, or a record of survey if required by Cal. Business and Professions
Code § 8762, either of which shall be recorded with the County Recorder.
   (E)   Boundary line or exchange agreements to which the state’s Lands
Commission or a local agency holding a trust grant of tide and submerged lands
is a party;
   (F)   Any separate assessment under Cal. Revenue and Taxation Code § 2188.7;
   (G)   Subject to the requirements of Cal. Gov’t Code § 66412(g), the
conversion of a community apartment project to a condominium;
   (H)   Subject to the requirements of Cal. Gov’t Code § 66412(h), the
conversion of a stock cooperative to a condominium;
   (I)   The leasing of, or the granting of an easement to, a parcel of land,
or any portion or portions thereof, in conjunction with the financing, erection
and sale or lease of a wind-powered electrical general device on the land, if
the project is subject to discretionary action by the county;
   (J)   The financing or leasing of any parcel of land, or any portion
thereof, in conjunction with the construction of commercial or industrial
buildings on a single parcel, unless the project is not subject to review under
other county ordinances regulating design and improvements;
   (K)   The financing or leasing of existing separate commercial or industrial
buildings on a single parcel;
   (L)   The construction, financing or leasing of dwelling units pursuant to §
65852.1 or second units pursuant to Cal. Gov’t Code § 65852.2, but this title
shall apply to the sale or transfer, but not leasing, of those units;
   (M)   Leasing of agricultural land for agricultural purposes, including
cultivation of food or fiber, and the grazing or pasturing of livestock; and
   (N)   Any other exclusions mandated by the Subdivision Map Act.
(1966 Code, § 17-5) (Ord. 617, § 2(part); Ord. 694, § 2)
§ 23.01.006 MODIFICATION OF REQUIREMENTS.
   Whenever the opinion of the Planning Commission or the Board of Supervisors,
the land involved in any subdivision is of a size or shape, or is subject to
title limitations of record, or is affected by topographical location or
condition, or is to be devoted to a use that is impossible or impracticable in
the particular case for the subdivider to conform fully to the regulations
contained in this title, the Planning Commission or the Board of Supervisors
may make modifications as, in its opinion, are reasonably necessary or
expedient and in conformity with the Subdivision Map Act.
(1966 Code, § 17-6) (Ord. 617, § 2(part))
§ 23.01.007 FEES AND DEPOSITS.
   All persons submitting applications for the approval of maps pursuant to
this ordinance or for other approvals as required by this title shall pay all
fees and/or deposits as provided by this title and by the Board of Supervisor’s
resolution or resolutions establishing applicable fees and deposits. The
resolution or resolutions are hereby incorporated by this reference as though
fully set forth herein.
(1966 Code, § 17-7) (Ord. 617, § 2(part))
CHAPTER 23.03: MAPS REQUIRED
Section
   
23.03.001   General
   
23.03.002   Subdivision; five or more parcels
   
23.03.003   Subdivision; four or fewer parcels
§ 23.03.001 GENERAL.
   The necessity of tentative, final and parcel maps shall be governed by the
provision of this chapter.
(1966 Code, § 17-8) (Ord. 617, § 2(part))
§ 23.03.002 SUBDIVISION; FIVE OR MORE PARCELS.
   (A)   A tentative and final map shall be required for all subdivisions when
determined by the Planning Department that the land may be divided into five or
more parcels, five or more condominiums, a community apartment project
containing five or more parcels or for the conversion of a dwelling to a stock
cooperative containing five or more dwelling units, except where:
      (1)   The land before division contains less than five acres, each parcel
created by the division abuts upon a maintained public street or highway, and
no dedications or improvements are required by the county;
      (2)   Each parcel created by the division has a gross area of 20 acres or
more and has an approved access to a maintained public street or highway;
      (3)   The land consists of a parcel or parcels of land having approved
access to a public street or highway which comprises part of a tract of land
zoned for industrial or commercial development, and which has the approval of
the governing body as to street alignments and widths; and/or
      (4)   Each parcel created by the division has a gross area of not less
than 40 acres or not less than a quarter of a quarter section.
   (B)   A tentative and parcel map shall be required for those subdivisions
described in divisions (A)(1) through (4), unless waived by the Planning
Commission in accordance with the provisions of Cal. Gov’t Code § 66428 and §
23.11.008 of this title.
(1966 Code, § 17-9) (Ord. 617, § 2(part))
§ 23.03.003 SUBDIVISION; FOUR OR FEWER PARCELS.
   (A)   A tentative and parcel map shall be required for all divisions of land
creating four or fewer parcels, except that maps shall not be required for:
      (1)   Subdivisions of a portion of the operating right-of-way of a
railroad corporation, defined by Cal. Public Utilities Code § 230, which are
created by short-term leases terminable by either party on not more than 30
days’ written notice;
      (2)   Land conveyed to or from a governmental agency, public entity or
public utility, or for land conveyed to a subsidiary of a public utility for
conveyance to the public utility for rights-of-way, unless a finding is made,
in individual cases, upon substantial evidence, that public policy necessitates
a parcel map. For purposes of this division, public policy will necessitate a
parcel map when the conveyance appears to conflict with county ordinances or
the general plan of the county. Any transaction purporting to fall within this
division must be reviewed and acted upon by the Planning Director.
   (B)   The requirements for a parcel may be waived in accordance with the
provisions of Cal. Gov’t Code § 66428 and §
23.11.008 of this title.
(1966 Code, § 17-10) (Ord. 617, § 2(part))
CHAPTER 23.05: PRELIMINARY MAPS
Section
   
23.05.001   Purpose
   
23.05.002   Submittal
   
23.05.003   Requirements
   
23.05.004   Additional information
   
23.05.005   Action on map
§ 23.05.001 PURPOSE.
   The preparation and consideration of a preliminary map is to provide a means
of review of a proposed development, and identification of major problems, if
any, at an early stage and prior to major expenditure. It should be a means of
aiding development and isolating major problems at any early date.
(1966 Code, § 17-11) (Ord. 617, § 2(part))
§ 23.05.002 SUBMITTAL.
   The preliminary map and supporting documents shall be submitted to the
Planning Department not less than 14 days prior to the meeting of the
Development Review Committee at which consideration is desired. Ten copies of
the preliminary map shall be submitted. The application fee shall be
established by resolution of the Board of Supervisors.
(1966 Code, § 17-12) (Ord. 617, § 2(part))
§ 23.05.003 REQUIREMENTS.
   It is not intended that a preliminary map shall be as detailed as a
tentative map, but it shall provide adequate data to permit the reviewing body:
   (A)   To conclude that the proposed subdivision will not be denied by the
Board of Supervisors on the basis on any negative findings under the
Subdivision Map Act;
   (B)   To determine that the proposed subdivision is not a “land project”, as
defined by the Business and Professions Code; and
   (C)   To become adequately informed on the proposal, including the
following:
      (1)   The property to be divided and acreage of existing and proposed
parcels;
      (2)   Existing structures, streets, easements and other pertinent
facilities on the land abutting, and in the vicinity when relevant to the
development;
      (3)   Sufficient contours or elevations to indicate the nature of the
terrain to be developed and its suitability for dwellings and streets;
      (4)   Fills, marshes, major rock outcrops or other features affecting
development;
      (5)   Approximate alignment and grade of proposed streets within the
subdivision and, where relevant adjacent proposed or existing streets,
especially access streets;
      (6)   Date, north arrow, vicinity map;
      (7)   Subdivider and record owners; names and addresses; and
      (8)   Name and address of person preparing map.
(1966 Code, § 17-13) (Ord. 617, § 2(part))
§ 23.05.004 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION.
   Additional information may be required by the Development Review Committee.
For example, in an area subject to inundation, a preliminary flooding and
drainage report should accompany the map; in an area of extreme seismic
activity, a geologic report will be needed.
(1966 Code, § 17-14) (Ord. 617, § 2(part))
§ 23.05.005 ACTION ON MAP.
   The Development Review Committee shall consider and make recommendations on
the preliminary map, identify problems and report these to the developer.
Approvals or disapprovals will be in principle only. If, in the opinion of the
Development Review Committee or the developer, matters of policy are involved,
the preliminary map shall be referred to the Planning Commission and, if
necessary, to the Board of Supervisors on appeal.
(1966 Code, § 17-15) (Ord. 617, § 2(part))
CHAPTER 23.07: TENTATIVE MAPS
Section
   
23.07.001   General
   
23.07.002   Form and contents
   
23.07.003   Accompanying data and reports
   
23.07.004   Planning Department review
   
23.07.005   Waiver; other information
   
23.07.006   Planning Commission action
   
23.07.007   Extension of time
   
23.07.008   Appeal
   
23.07.009   Expiration
   
23.07.010   Extension
   
23.07.011   Amendments to approved or conditionally approved tentative map
§ 23.07.001 GENERAL.
   (A)   The form, content, submittal and approval of tentative maps shall
conform to the provisions of the Subdivision Map Act and this title.
   (B)   An application for approval of a tentative map pursuant to this
chapter shall not be deemed complete until the subdivider has obtained all
other necessary discretionary county approvals for the development that are
required pursuant to the provisions of this code.
   (C)   Within the boundaries of an adopted specific plan, the subdivider may
submit and the county may approve an application, in accordance with §
23.07.005, for a "large lot" tentative map consisting of large, non-buildable
lots; provided, however, said large lot map shall not be construed to create
any buildable lots and shall be utilized only for financing and/or
infrastructure planning purposes. The subdivider may not build any structures
on any lots identified on any such "large lot" tentative map approved under
this section until such time as the subdivider seeks and obtains approval of a
tentative subdivision map or parcel map in accordance with the applicable
provisions of the Subdivision Map Act and the county's Subdivision Ordinance
that further subdivides and creates such buildable lots.
(1966 Code, § 17-16) (Ord. 617, § 2(part); Ord. 860, § 4 (part), 2010)
§ 23.07.002 FORM AND CONTENTS.
   (A)   The tentative map shall be prepared in a manner consistent with the
requirements of this title as determined by the Planning Department.
   (B)   The tentative map shall be clearly and legibly drawn and shall contain
not less than the following:
      (1)   The subdivision name and type of subdivision;
      (2)   The name, address and telephone number of the owner of the subject
property, the subdivider and the person preparing the map, including any
registration or license number;
      (3)   The names and numbers of adjacent subdivisions and the names of
owners of adjacent unplatted land;
      (4)   Date, north arrow, graphic scale, contour interval and source and
date of existing contours;
      (5)   Existing zoning and general plan designation and a statement of
existing and proposed uses of the property as well as any proposed zoning and
general plan changes, whether immediate or future;
      (6)   A vicinity map showing roads, towns, creeks, railroads and/or other
data sufficient to locate the proposed subdivision and show its relation to the
community;
      (7)   Existing topography of the proposed subdivision site and at least
100 feet beyond its boundary, including but not limited to: existing contours
at two-foot intervals if the existing ground slope is less than 10%, and at not
less than five-foot intervals for existing ground slopes equal to or greater
than 10%. Contours shall not be spread more than 150 feet apart and a minimum
of three contours shall be shown. A different interval may be allowed in areas
where it would be appropriate;
      (8)   Within the proposed subdivision and within 100 feet of its
boundary, the following shall also be shown:
         (a)   Any trees proposed to be removed or impacted shall be indicated
by species, diameter at breast height and dripline of existing trees with a
diameter at breast height of four inches or more;
         (b)   The location and outline of all existing structures identified
by type and drawn to scale. Structures to be removed shall be so marked;
         (c)   The approximate location of all areas of potential stormwater
overflow; the location, width and direction of flow of each watercourse; and
the flood zone designation;
         (d)   The location, type and width of pavement, right-of-way width,
grade and name of existing streets or highways;
         (e)   The width, purpose, location and identity and recording data of
all existing easements; and
         (f)   The location and size of existing sanitary sewers, fire
hydrants, water mains and storm drains, where appropriate (required where
property is within a sewer or water district). The approximate slope of
existing sewers and storm drains shall be indicated. The location of existing
overhead utility lines on peripheral streets and within the subdivision shall
be indicated.
      (9)   Proposed improvements to be shown shall include, but not be limited
to:
         (a)   Typical sections of all streets shall be shown. Proposed private
streets shall be clearly indicated. The location, grade, centerline radius and
arc length of curves, pavement, right-of-way width and name of all streets
shall be shown, where appropriate;
         (b)   The location and radius of all curb returns and cul-de-sacs;
         (c)   The angle of intersecting streets if the angle deviates from a
right angle by more than four degrees;
         (d)   The approximate lot layout and the approximate dimensions and
area of each lot and each building site. Engineering data shall provide
sufficient detail to allow adequate environmental review. This detail may
include the approximate finished grading of each lot, the preliminary design of
all grading including the estimated amount of grading in cubic yards, the
elevation of proposed building pads, the top and toe of cut-and-fill slopes to
scale, the number of each lot and the elevation of adjacent parcels;
         (e)   Proposed contours at two-foot intervals shall be shown if the
existing ground slope is less than 10% and not at less than five-foot intervals
for existing ground slopes of 10% or more and a minimum of three contours shall
be shown. A larger interval may be allowed for very large property, where
appropriate. Existing contours shall be represented by solid lines. A separate
grading plan may be submitted;
         (f)   Proposed recreation sites, trails and parks for private or
public use;
         (g)   Proposed common areas and areas to be dedicated to public open
space;
         (h)   The location and size of sanitary sewers, fire hydrants, water
mains and storm drains, where appropriate (required where property is in a
sewer or water district). Proposed slopes and approximate elevations of
sanitary sewers and storm drains shall be indicated. The proposed routing of
stormwater runoff generated by a 100-year storm and proposed method of
mitigating runoff due to development and pollution due to storm water discharge
shall also be indicated; and
         (i)   A statement as to intention of the subdivider in regard to slope
planting and erosion control.
      (10)   The name or names of any geologist or soils engineer whose
services were required in the preparation of the design of the tentative map;
      (11)   The minimum size of each sheet shall be 18 by 26 inches. A
marginal line shall be drawn completely around each sheet, leaving an entirely
blank margin of one inch. The scale of the map shall be not less than one inch
equals 100 feet or as may be necessary to show all details clearly, and enough
sheets shall be used to accomplish this end. The particular number of the sheet
and the total number of sheets comprising the map shall be stated on each of
the sheets, and its relation to each adjoining sheet shall be clearly shown.
When four or more sheets are used, a key sheet shall be included. All printing
or lettering on the map shall be of one-eighth inch minimum height and of such
shape and weight as to be readily legible on prints and other reproductions
made from the original drawings; and
      (12)   The subdivider shall specify any deviation from county standards.
The justification for the deviation shall be explained on a separate sheet.
(1966 Code, § 17-17) (Ord. 617, § 2(part))
§ 23.07.003 ACCOMPANYING DATA AND REPORTS.
   The tentative map shall be accompanied by the following data and reports:
   (A)   Street names.
      (1)   A list of proposed street names for any unnamed street or alley for
review by the county’s Communications Department. This requirement shall not
apply to condominium conversions.
      (2)   Each street to be dedicated which is a continuation of, or
approximately the continuation of, any existing dedicated street, shall be
shown on the tentative map and shall be given the same name as such existing
street. The proposed name of each street shown on the tentative map shall be
submitted to the county for approval in accordance with current county street-
naming policies prepared by the Communications Department. The approved street
name shall be shown on the final or parcel map.
   (B)   Soil report.
      (1)   A preliminary soil report, prepared by a registered civil engineer
shall be submitted. The County Engineer shall review the preliminary soil
report and may require additional information or reject the report if it is
found to be incomplete, inaccurate or unsatisfactory.
      (2)   The requirement of a preliminary soil report may be waived provided
that the County Engineer finds that, due to the knowledge the county has as to
the soil conditions in the subdivision, no preliminary analysis is necessary.
The knowledge would include, but not be limited to, information regarding the
nature, distribution and strength of the existing soil, and the necessary
grading procedures and design criteria for corrective measures.
      (3)   If the county has knowledge of, or the preliminary soil report
indicates the presence of critically expansive soil or other soil problems
which, if not corrected, would lead to structural defects, a soil investigation
of each lot in the subdivision may be required. The soil investigation shall be
done by a registered civil engineer or geotechnical engineer. The county may
approve the subdivision, or portion thereof, where these soil problems exist if
it determines that the recommended action is likely to prevent structural
damage to each structure to be constructed, and as a condition to the issuance
of any building permit may require that the approved recommended action be
incorporated in the construction of each structure.
   (C)   Title report. A preliminary title report, acceptable to the Planning
Department, showing the legal owners at the time of submitting the tentative
map shall be submitted.
   (D)   Environmental review. Information shall be submitted as required by
the Planning Department to allow an environmental review to be made in
accordance with the California Environmental Quality Act (Cal. Public Resources
Code §§ 21000 et seq.). The subdivider shall deposit and pay all fees as may be
required for the preparation and processing of environmental review documents.
   (E)   Preliminary engineering calculations. Information shall be submitted
as required by the standard engineering specifications, adopted by this title,
to demonstrate the adequacy of the design of the proposed improvements. The
information shall include design parameters and engineering calculations.
   (F)   Phasing. If the subdivider plans to file multiple final maps on the
tentative map, he or she shall submit a written notice on the tentative map to
this effect.
   (G)   Geohydrology. If the subdivision proposes to use groundwater as its
primary water source, adequate information shall be submitted. Such information
shall include the potential impacts on the aquifer under the site as well as
measures to conserve the resource.
   (H)   Septic suitability. Subdivisions proposing to use on-site sewage
disposal systems shall submit a soil percolation test or soil profile based
upon on-site soil testing. The testing and report shall be prepared under the
direction of a civil engineer or a registered sanitarian.
   (I)   Slope analysis. Subdivisions sited on property with slopes of 30% or
greater shall depict the location of areas with the slopes.
   (J)   Geologic report. The applicant shall submit a geologic report prepared
by a registered geologist for subdivisions with special studies zones,
potential or existing landslide hazards and/or other potential geologic
hazards.
   (K)   Other reports. Any other data or reports deemed necessary by the
Planning Department.
   (L)   Legal description. A legal description of the boundaries of the
proposed subdivision.
(1966 Code, § 17-18) (Ord. 617, § 2(part))
§ 23.07.004 PLANNING DEPARTMENT REVIEW.
   (A)   The tentative map application shall be submitted to the Planning
Department. The application shall be determined by the department to be
complete only when the form and contents of the tentative map conform to the
requirements of §
23.07.002 and when all accompanying data and reports, as required by §
23.07.003, all fees and/or deposits as required by §
23.01.007 have been submitted and accepted by the Department, and when all
requirements under the California Environmental Quality Act concerning the
completeness of applications have been satisfied. The Planning Department shall
forward copies of the tentative map to the affected public agencies and
utilities which may, in turn, forward to the department their findings and
recommendations. Public agencies and utilities shall certify that the
subdivision can be adequately served.
   (B)   Within ten days of the submitting of a complete tentative map
application, the Planning Department shall send a notice of the submitting of
the tentative map application to the governing board of any elementary, high
school or unified school district within the boundaries of which the
subdivision is proposed to be located. The notice shall contain information
about the location of the proposed subdivision, the number of units, density
and any other information which would be relevant to the affected school
district. The governing board may review the notice and may send a written
report to the Planning Commission. The report shall indicate the impact of the
proposed subdivision on the affected school district and shall make
recommendations as the governing board of the district deems appropriate. The
report shall be returned within 20 working days of the date on which the notice
was mailed to the school district for comment. In the event that the governing
board fails to respond within the 20 working-day period, the failure to respond
shall be deemed approval of the proposed subdivision by the school district.
The Planning Commission shall consider the report from the school district in
approving, conditionally approving, or disapproving the tentative map
application.
(1966 Code, § 17-19) (Ord. 617, § 2(part))
§ 23.07.005 WAIVER; OTHER INFORMATION.
   Upon the written request of the subdivider, the Planning Department may
waive any of the tentative map requirements pursuant to §§
23.07.002 and
23.07.003 if the Department determines that the type of subdivision does not
justify compliance with these requirements or other circumstances justify a
waiver. The Planning Department may require other drawings, data or information
as it deems necessary to accomplish the purposes of the Subdivision Map Act and
this title. In addition, within the boundaries of an adopted specific plan, the
subdivider may submit and the county may approve an application, in accordance
with §
23.07.005, for a "large lot" tentative map consisting of large, non-buildable
lots; provided, however, said large lot map shall not be construed to create
any buildable lots and shall be utilized only for financing and/or
infrastructure planning purposes. The subdivider may not build any structures
on any lots identified on any such "large lot" tentative map approved under
this section until such time as the subdivider seeks and obtains approval of a
tentative subdivision map or parcel map in accordance with the applicable
provisions of the Subdivision Map Act and the county's Subdivision Ordinance
that further subdivides and creates such buildable lots. Any application for a
large lot tentative map as described herein need not comply with the submittal
requirements of §§
23.07.002 and
23.07.003, but shall include such other drawings, data or information as deemed
necessary by the Planning Department to accomplish the purposes of the
Subdivision Map Act and this title.
(1966 Code, § 17-20) (Ord. 617, § 2(part); Ord. 860, § 4 (part), 2010)
§ 23.07.006 PLANNING COMMISSION ACTION.
   (A)   Report. Upon receipt of a complete tentative map application, the
Planning Department shall prepare a report with recommendations. The Planning
Department shall set the matter for public hearing before the Planning
Commission. A copy of the Department report shall be available to the applicant
at least three days prior to the public hearing.
   (B)   Notice of public hearings.
      (1)   At least ten days prior to the public hearing, notice of the
hearing shall be published at least once in a newspaper of general circulation
within the jurisdiction of the county.
      (2)   At least ten days prior to the public hearing, notice of the
hearing shall be mailed or delivered to the owner of the subject real property,
the subdivider and all owners of real property as shown on the latest equalized
assessment roll within 300 feet of the real property that is the subject of the
hearing. In addition, notice of the hearing shall be mailed or delivered at
least ten days prior to the public hearing to each local agency expected to
provide water, sewage, streets, roads, schools or other essential facilities or
services to the project, whose ability to provide those facilities may be
significantly affected. Notice of the hearing shall also be mailed or delivered
at least ten days prior to the public hearing to any person who has submitted a
written request for notice with the Planning Department.
      (3)   The Planning Department may give notice of the hearing in any other
manner it deems necessary or desirable.
      (4)   The failure of any person or entity to receive notice pursuant to
this division shall not constitute grounds for any court to invalidate the
actions for which the notice was given.
   (C)   Action. The Planning Commission shall approve, conditionally approve
or disapprove the tentative map within 50 days after the tentative map
application has been determined by the Planning Department to be complete. The
time period shall not commence until certification of the environmental impact
report, adoption of a negative declaration or a determination that the project
is exempt from the requirements of the California Environmental Quality Act.
   (D)   Approval.
      (1)   The tentative map may be approved or conditionally approved by the
Planning Commission if it finds that the proposed subdivision, together with
the provisions for its design and improvement, is consistent with the general
plan, and any applicable specific plan.
      (2)   The Planning Commission may modify or delete any of the conditions
of approval recommended in the Planning Department report. The Planning
Commission may add additional requirements as a condition of its approval. The
Planning Commission may require as a condition of its approval that the payment
by the subdivider of all development fees required to be paid at the time of
the application. The fees shall be as adopted by ordinance in effect at the
time the application is determined complete.
      (3)   If no action is taken upon the tentative map by the Planning
Commission within the time limits specified in this section or any authorized
extension thereof, the tentative map, as filed, shall be deemed to be approved,
insofar as it complies with all other applicable provisions of the Subdivision
Map Act, this title, this code and the general plan.
   (E)   Disapproval. The tentative map may be disapproved by the Planning
Commission on any of the grounds set forth in the Subdivision Map Act or this
title. The Planning Commission shall deny approval of the tentative map if it
makes any of the following findings:
      (1)   That the proposed map is not consistent with the general plan or
any applicable specific plan;
      (2)   That the design or improvement of the proposed subdivision is not
consistent with the general plan or any applicable specific plan;
      (3)   That the site is not physically suitable for the type of
development;
      (4)   That the site is not physically suitable for the proposed density
of development;
      (5)   That the design of the subdivision or the proposed improvements are
likely to cause substantial environmental damage or substantially and avoidably
injure fish or wildlife or their habitat. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the
Planning Commission may approve a tentative map if an environmental impact
report was prepared with respect to the project and a finding was made pursuant
to Cal. Public Resources Code § 21081 that specific economic, social or other
considerations make infeasible the mitigation measures or project alternatives
identified in the environmental impact report;
      (6)   That the design of the subdivision or the type of improvements is
likely to cause serious public health problems;
      (7)   That the design of the subdivision or the type of improvements will
conflict with easements, acquired by the public at large, for access through or
use of, property within the proposed subdivision. In this connection, the
Planning Commission may approve a map if it finds that alternate easements, for
access or for use, will be provided, and that these will be substantially
equivalent to ones previously acquired by the public. This division shall apply
only to easements of record or to easements established by judgment of a court
of competent jurisdiction, and no authority is hereby granted to the Planning
Commission to determine that the public at large has acquired easements for
access through or use of property within the proposed subdivision;
      (8)   Subject to Cal. Gov’t Code § 66474.4, that the land is subject to a
contract entered into pursuant to the California Land Conservation Act of 1965
(Cal. Gov’t Code §§ 51200 et seq.) and that the resulting parcels following a
subdivision of that land would be too small to sustain their agricultural use;
or
      (9)   Subject to Cal. Gov’t Code § 66474.6, that the discharge of waste
from the proposed subdivision into an existing community sewer system would
result in violation of existing requirements prescribed by the Central Coast
Regional Water Quality Control Board pursuant to Cal. Water Code Division 7
(commencing with § 13000).
(1966 Code, § 17-21) (Ord. 617, § 2(part))
§ 23.07.007 EXTENSION OF TIME.
   Any applicable time limits for reporting and acting on the tentative map
application may be extended by mutual consent of the subdivider and the
Planning Commission.
(1966 Code, § 17-22) (Ord. 617, § 2(part))
§ 23.07.008 APPEAL.
   (A)   The subdivider or any interested person aggrieved by a decision of the
Planning Commission with respect to the tentative map application may, within
ten days after the date of the decision, file an appeal in writing with the
Clerk of the Board. The Clerk of the Board shall set the matter for public
hearing before the Board of Supervisors, the hearing to commence within 30 days
after the filing of the appeal. The hearing may be continued from time to time,
but must be concluded within 60 days from the date of commencement of the
hearing. Notice of the hearing shall be given as provided in §
23.07.006. Within ten days following the conclusion of the hearing, the Board
of Supervisors shall render its decision on the appeal. The Board of
Supervisors may remand, sustain, modify, reject or overrule any recommendations
or rulings of the Planning Commission and may make any findings which are
consistent with the provisions of the Subdivision Map Act and this title.
   (B)   If the Board of Supervisors fails to act upon an appeal within the
time limits set forth in this section, the tentative map, insofar as it
complies with all other applicable provisions of the Subdivision Map Act, this
title, this code and the general plan, shall be deemed to be approved or
conditionally approved as last approved or conditionally approved by the
Planning Commission. A tie vote by the Board of Supervisors shall be deemed a
vote to uphold the Planning Commission.
(1966 Code, § 17-23) (Ord. 617, § 2(part))
§ 23.07.009 EXPIRATION.
   (A)   The approval or conditional approval of a tentative map shall expire
24 months after its approval or conditional approval by the Planning Commission
or Board of Supervisors, whichever occurs last. The expiration of the approved
or conditionally approved tentative map shall terminate all proceedings and no
final or parcel map of all or any portion of the real property included within
the tentative map shall be recorded without first processing a new tentative
map.
   (B)   If in connection with a tentative map for which the recording of
multiple final maps is authorized pursuant to §
23.09.002, the subdivider is made subject to a requirement of $125,000 or more
to construct, improve or finance the construction or improvement of public
improvements outside the property boundaries of the tentative map, excluding
improvements as stated in Cal. Gov’t Code § 66452.6(a), or if the tentative map
is on property subject to a development agreement authorized by Cal. Gov’t Code
§§ 65864 et seq., then the expiration date set forth in division (A) shall be
extended in accordance with Cal. Gov’t Code § 66452.6(a). An extension to the
expiration date may also be approved as provided in §
23.07.010. The extension(s) provided for in this division shall not extend the
tentative map more than ten years from the date of its approval or conditional
approval.
   (C)   Subject to the requirements of Cal. Gov’t Code § 66452.6(b), the
period of time specified in division (A) above shall not include any period of
time during which a development moratorium, imposed after approval or
conditional approval of the tentative map, is in existence.
   (D)   Subject to the requirements of Cal. Gov’t Code § 66452.6(c), the
period of time specified in division (A) above shall not include the period of
time during which a lawsuit involving the approval or conditional approval of
the tentative map is or was pending in a court of competent jurisdiction.
(1966 Code, § 17-24) (Ord. 617, § 2(part))
§ 23.07.010 EXTENSION.
   (A)   Request by subdivider. In addition to any extension authorized under §
23.07.009, the subdivider may request one or more extensions of the map, the
cumulative total not to exceed three years, by written application to the
Planning Director. The application shall be submitted before the map is to
expire and shall state the reasons for the request. Upon the submitting of this
request for extension, the map shall be automatically extended for a period of
60 days or until the Planning Director acts on the request, whichever period of
time is shorter.
   (B)   Planning Director action. The Planning Director shall review the
application for the extension and approve, conditionally approve or disapprove
the request. A copy of the decision shall be forwarded to the subdivider. In
approving, conditionally approving or disapproving the request for extension,
the Planning Director shall make findings supporting the decision, including
those findings found in §
23.07.006.
   (C)   Appeal. The subdivider or any interested person aggrieved by a
decision of the planning director with respect to an extension requested may
appeal the decision to the Board of Supervisors in accordance with §
23.07.008. If the Board of Supervisors does not act within the time limits set
forth in §
23.07.008, the extension shall be deemed to have been approved by the Planning
Commission, insofar as the tentative map complies with all other applicable
provisions of the Subdivision Map Act, this title, this code and the general
plan. Pending a decision by the Board on the appeal, the map shall be deemed
extended until the decision is rendered.
(1966 Code, § 17-25) (Ord. 617, § 2(part))
§ 23.07.011 AMENDMENTS TO APPROVED OR CONDITIONALLY APPROVED TENTATIVE MAP.
   (A)   Minor amendments to the approved or conditionally approved tentative
map or conditions of approval may be approved by the Planning Department upon
written application by the subdivider or on the Department’s own initiative,
provided that the following criteria are met:
      (1)   No lots, units or building sites or structures are added;
      (2)   Changes are consistent with the intent and spirit of the original
tentative map approval; and/or
      (3)   There are no resulting violations of the Subdivision Map Act,
general plan or any county ordinance.
   (B)   The amendment shall be indicated on the approved or conditionally
approved tentative map and certified by the Planning Director. Amendments to
the approved or conditionally approved tentative map or conditions of approval
which, in the opinion of the Planning Department, are not minor, shall be
presented to the Planning Commission for its approval. Processing shall be in
accordance with the provisions for processing a tentative map as set forth in
this chapter. An amendment approved by the Planning Director shall not alter
the expiration date of the tentative map. An amendment approved by the Planning
Commission shall be deemed a new subdivision, with the time limits appropriate
to this status.
(1966 Code, § 17-26) (Ord. 617, § 2(part))
CHAPTER 23.09: FINAL MAPS
Section
   
23.09.001   General
   
23.09.002   Phasing
   
23.09.003   Survey required
   
23.09.004   Form
   
23.09.005   Contents
   
23.09.006   Submittal for county approval
   
23.09.007   Review and approval by County Engineer
   
23.09.008   Approval by Board of Supervisors
   
23.09.009   Denial by Board of Supervisors
   
23.09.010   Recording with the County Recorder
   
23.09.011   Correction and amendment
§ 23.09.001 GENERAL.
   The form, contents, submittal, approval and recording of final maps shall
conform to the provisions of the Subdivision Map Act and this title.
(1966 Code, § 17-27) (Ord. 617, § 2(part))
§ 23.09.002 PHASING.
   (A)   Multiple final maps relating to an approved or conditionally approved
tentative map may be submitted prior to the expiration of the tentative map if
the subdivider, at the time the tentative map application is filed, notifies
the Planning Director in writing of the subdivider’s intention to file multiple
final maps on the tentative map in accordance with §
23.07.003. In providing the notice, the subdivider shall not be required to
define the number or configuration of the proposed multiple final maps.
   (B)   The recording of a final map on a portion of an approved or
conditionally approved tentative map shall not invalidate any part of the
tentative map. The subdivision improvement agreement executed by the subdivider
shall provide for the construction of improvements as required to constitute a
logical and orderly development of the whole subdivision.
(1966 Code, § 17-28) (Ord. 617, § 2(part))
§ 23.09.003 SURVEY REQUIRED.
   (A)   An accurate and complete survey of the land to be subdivided shall be
made by a registered civil engineer authorized to practice land surveying in
California or licensed land surveyor.
   (B)   At the time of making the survey for the final map, the engineer or
surveyor shall set sufficient durable monuments to conform with the standards
described in Cal. Business and Professions Code § 8771 so that another engineer
or surveyor may readily retrace the survey. At least one exterior boundary line
shall be monumented prior to recording the final map. Other monuments shall be
set as required by the County Engineer.
(1966 Code, § 17-29) (Ord. 617, § 2(part))
§ 23.09.004 FORM.
   The final map shall be prepared by a registered civil engineer or licensed
land surveyor in a form acceptable to the County Engineer and in conformity
with the provisions of the Subdivision Map Act and as follows:
   (A)   The final map shall be legibly drawn, printed or reproduced by a
process guaranteeing a permanent record in black on tracing cloth or polyester
base film. Certificates, affidavits and acknowledgments may be legibly stamped
or printed upon the map with opaque ink. If ink is used on polyester base film,
the ink surface shall be coated with a suitable substance to assure permanent
legibility.
   (B)   The size of each sheet shall be 18 by 26 inches. A marginal line shall
be drawn completely around each sheet, leaving an entirely blank margin of one
inch. The scale of the map shall be not less than one inch equals 100 feet or
as may be necessary to show all details clearly, and enough sheets shall be
used to accomplish this end. The particular number of the sheet and the total
number of sheets comprising the map shall be stated on each of the sheets, and
its relation to each adjoining sheet shall be clearly shown. When four or more
sheets including the certificate sheet are used, a key sheet shall be included.
All printing or lettering on the map shall be of one-eighth inch minimum height
and of such shape and weight as to be readily legible on prints and other
reproductions made from the original drawings.
(1966 Code, § 17-30) (Ord. 617, § 2(part))
§ 23.09.005 CONTENTS.
   The contents of the final map shall conform to the provisions of the
Subdivision Map Act and as follows:
   (A)   Title. Each sheet shall have a title showing the subdivision number
and name and the location of the property being subdivided with reference to
maps which have been previously recorded or by reference to the plat of a
United States Survey. The words “County of San Benito” shall appear in the
title.
   (B)   Scale, north point and basis of bearings. There must appear on each
map sheet the scale, the north point and the basis of bearings.
   (C)   Linear, angular and radial data. Sufficient linear, angular and radial
data shall be shown to determine the bearings and lengths of monument lines,
street centerlines, the boundary lines of the subdivision, the boundary lines
of every lot and parcel which is a part of the subdivision, and ties to
existing monuments used to establish the boundary. Arc length, radius and total
central angle and radial bearings of all curves shall be shown. Ditto marks
shall not be used in the dimensions and data shown on the map.
   (D)   Subdivision boundary. The boundary of the subdivision shall be
designated by a distinctive border in such a manner as not to obliterate
figures or other data. Boundary shall be the limit of the underlying fee and
title explanation shall be supplied where the boundary is not the centerline of
abutting rights- of-way.
   (E)   Adjoining properties. The adjoining corners of all adjoining
subdivisions shall be identified by subdivision number and name and reference
to the book and page of the recorded map showing the subdivision; if no
subdivision is adjacent, then by reference to the last recorded deed by book
and page number.
   (F)   Lots. Lot lines shall be shown and dimensioned. The total area of each
lot, calculated to the nearest thousandth of an acre or square foot, shall be
indicated. Lot numbers shall begin with the number one in each subdivision and
shall continue consecutively with no omissions or duplications. Each lot shall
be shown entirely on one sheet of the final map, unless approved by the County
Engineer.
   (G)   City and county boundaries. City and county boundaries which cross or
join the subdivision shall be clearly designated.
   (H)   Street names. The names of all streets, alleys or highways within or
adjoining the subdivision shall be shown.
   (I)   Monuments. The location and description of all existing and proposed
monuments shall be shown. Standard county monuments shall be set at or on
County Engineer approved offsets, at the following locations:
      (1)   The intersection of street centerlines;
      (2)   The beginning and end of curves or intersection of tangents on
centerlines; and
      (3)   Other locations as may be required by the County Engineer.
   (J)   Easements and dedications.
      (1)   Easements and dedications for roads or streets, paths, alleys,
utilities, local transit facilities, stormwater drainage, sanitary sewers or
other public use as may be required, shall be dedicated to the public for
acceptance by the county or other public agency, and the use shall be specified
on the map. All easements of record shall be shown on the final map with the
widths, lengths and bearings of record.
      (2)   All easements of record shall be shown on the map, together with
the name of the grantee and sufficient recording data to identify the
conveyance (e.g., Recorder’s serial number and date, or book and page of
official records).
      (3)   Easements not disclosed by the records in the office of the County
Recorder and found by the Surveyor or Engineer to be existing, shall be
specifically designated on the map, identifying the apparent dominant tenements
for which the easement was created.
   (K)   Certificates and acknowledgments. All certificates and acknowledgments
shall be made as required by Cal. Gov’t Code Article 2 (commencing with §
66433) of Chapter 2 of Division 2 of Title 7 and shall appear only once on the
cover sheet. Certificates shall include certificates for execution by the
County Surveyor, Secretary of the Planning Commission, Clerk of the Board of
Supervisors and County Recorder.
   (L)   Additional information.
      (1)   Additional survey and map information including but not limited to
building envelopes, flood hazard zone, building setback lines, seismic zones
geologic mapping and archaeological sites may be required. The information
shall be in the form of an additional map sheet or a separate document that
shall indicate its relationship to the final or parcel map according to Cal.
Gov’t Code § 66434.2.
      (2)   Any additional information as required by the County Engineer.
(1966 Code, § 17-31) (Ord. 617, § 2(part))
§ 23.09.006 SUBMITTAL FOR COUNTY APPROVAL.
   (A)   The subdivider shall submit prints of the final map to the County
Engineer for review.
   (B)   The preliminary prints shall be accompanied by the following data,
plans, reports and documents in a form approved by the County Engineer and,
where applicable, the County Counsel:
      (1)   Improvement plans. Improvement plans as required by §
23.17.007;
      (2)   Soil report. A soils report prepared in accordance with §
23.07.003 and Chapter 70 (Excavation and Grading) of the Uniform Building Code
(adopted by reference by
Chapter 21.01 of this code);
      (3)   Title report. A title report showing the legal owners at the time
of submittal of the final map;
      (4)   Tax certificate. A certificate from the county’s Tax Collector
stating that all state, county, municipal or local taxes, or special
assessments collected as taxes, have been paid or that a tax bond or other
adequate form of security assuring payment of all taxes or special assessments
collected as taxes which are a lien but not yet payable has been submitted to
the county;
      (5)   Deeds for easements or rights-of-way. Deeds for off-site easements
or rights-of-way required for road or drainage purposes which have not been
dedicated on the final map. Written evidence acceptable to the county in the
form of rights-of-entry or permanent easements across private property outside
of the subdivision permitting or granting access to perform necessary
construction work and permitting the maintenance of the facility;
      (6)   Traverse closures. Traverse calculations and closures for the
boundary blocks, lots, easements, street centerlines and monument lines;
      (7)   Hydrology and hydraulic calculations. Complete hydrology and
hydraulic calculations of all storm drains and flood flow;
      (8)   Governing documents. The submittal of a final map for a common
interest development within the meaning of Cal. Civil Code §§ 1350 et seq.
shall include the proposed declaration of covenants, conditions and
restrictions containing the provisions described in Cal. Civil Code § 1353, and
all other governing documents for the subdivision as are appropriate pursuant
to Cal. Civil Code § 1363. The submittal of a final map for all subdivisions
other than a common interest development shall include any declaration of
covenants, conditions and restrictions proposed in connection therewith. All
documents shall be subject to review and approval by the County Engineer,
Planning Director and County Counsel;
      (9)   Guarantee of title. A guarantee of title, in a form acceptable to
the County Engineer and County Counsel, shall be issued by a competent title
company to and for the benefit and protection of the county and shall be
continued complete up to the instant of recording of the final map,
guaranteeing that the names of all persons whose consent is necessary to pass a
clear title to the land being subdivided, and all public easements being
offered for dedication, and all acknowledgments thereto, appear on the proper
certificates and are correctly shown on the map, both as to consents as to the
making thereof and affidavits of dedication where necessary;
      (10)   Improvement agreement. In the event sewer, water, drainage,
grading, paving or other improvements required pursuant to §
23.17.003 have not been completed prior to the presentation of the final map,
an agreement in accordance with the requirements of §
23.17.008 shall be submitted for the improvement thereof, except that in the
case of a final map filed for a "large lot" subdivision or "small lot"
subdivision containing any non-buildable lots permitted by §
23.07.001, such improvement requirements may be deferred until further
subdivision of the large lot parcels. The subdivider shall secure the
performance of the agreement in accordance with the requirements of §
23.17.009;
      (11)   Liability agreement and insurance. A hold harmless agreement
obligating the subdivider to hold the county and its officers, agents and
employees harmless from any liability for damages or claims for damages for
personal injury or death which arise from the wrongful operations of the
subdivider and/or the subdivider’s subcontractors in connection with the
subdivision. A certificate of insurance reporting to the county the amount of
insurance the subdivider carries for the subdivider’s own liability for damages
or claims for damages for personal injury or death which arise from the
operations of the subdivider or his or her subcontractors in connection with
the subdivision. The certificate of insurance shall name the county as an
additional insured. The agreement and certificate required by this division
shall be subject to prior review and approval by the County Engineer; and
      (12)   Additional information. Any additional data, reports or
information as required by the county.
(1966 Code, § 17-32) (Ord. 617, § 2(part); Ord. 860, § 4 (part), 2010)
§ 23.09.007 REVIEW AND APPROVAL BY COUNTY ENGINEER.
   (A)   The County Engineer shall review the final map and any other required
information and the subdivider shall make corrections and/or additions until
acceptable to the County Engineer.
   (B)   The subdivider shall submit to the County Engineer the original
tracing of the map and any duplicates per county requirements, corrected to its
final form and signed by all parties required to execute the certificates on
the map. Original signatures shall appear on the original drawing and on the
blueline duplicate. Upon receipt of all required certificates and submittals,
the County Engineer shall sign the appropriate certificates and transmit the
original map to the Clerk of the Board.
(1966 Code, § 17-33) (Ord. 617, § 2(part))
§ 23.09.008 APPROVAL BY BOARD OF SUPERVISORS.
   (A)   The final map, approved by the County Engineer as complying with the
approved or conditionally approved tentative map, shall be recorded with the
Board of Supervisors of approval after all required certificates have been
signed. The date the map shall be deemed recorded with the Board of Supervisors
is the date on which the Clerk of the Board receives the map. The Board of
Supervisors shall consider the final map for approval at its next regular
meeting following receipt of the map by the Clerk of the Board. The County
Engineer shall consider and if appropriate, approve the subdivision improvement
agreement in accordance with the requirements of §
23.17.008.
   (B)   At the time the Board of Supervisors approves the final map, it shall
also accept, accept subject to improvement, or reject any offer of dedication.
The Clerk of the Board shall certify on the final map the action of the Board
of Supervisors. If at the time the final map is approved, any streets, paths,
alleys, public utility easements, rights-of-way for local transit facilities or
storm drainage easements are not accepted by the Board of Supervisors, the
offer of dedication shall remain open. The Board of Supervisors may, by
resolution at any later date, and without further action by the subdivider,
rescind its action and accept and open the streets, paths, alleys, rights-of-
way for local transit facilities or storm drainage easements, which acceptance
shall be recorded in the office of the County Recorder. The county may accept
any dedications lying outside the subdivision boundary which require a separate
grant deed. The acceptance shall be recorded in the office of the County
Recorder.
   (C)   If the final map is unacceptable, the Board of Supervisors shall make
its recommended corrections, instruct the County Engineer to revise the final
map and defer approval until an acceptable final map has been resubmitted.
   (D)   The Board of Supervisors shall not postpone or refuse approval of a
final map because the subdivider has failed to meet a tentative map condition
requiring construction or installation of off-site improvements on land in
which neither the subdivider not the county has sufficient title or interest to
permit the improvements to be made. In such a case, the county shall comply
with the provisions of §
23.17.003 and Cal. Gov’t Code § 66462.5.
(1966 Code, § 17-34) (Ord. 617, § 2(part))
§ 23.09.009 DENIAL BY BOARD OF SUPERVISORS.
   (A)   The Board of Supervisors shall disapprove a final map if it finds that
there has been a failure to comply with the requirements of the Subdivision Map
Act, this title, the tentative map or any of the conditions thereof. The
disapproval shall be accompanied by a finding specifically identifying the
requirements or conditions which have not been met or performed.
   (B)   The Board of Supervisors shall not disapprove a final map when the
failure of the map is a result of a technical and inadvertent error which, in
the opinion of the Board of Supervisors, does not materially affect the
validity of the map; provided, however, that to the extent possible, the map
shall be corrected prior to recordation.
(1966 Code, § 17-35) (Ord. 617, § 2(part))
§ 23.09.010 RECORDING WITH THE COUNTY RECORDER.
   Upon approval of the final map by the Board of Supervisors, the Clerk of the
Board shall execute the appropriate certificate on the certificate sheet and
shall, subject to the provisions of Cal. Gov’t Code § 66464, transmit the map
to the County Recorder.
(1966 Code, § 17-36) (Ord. 617, § 2(part))
§ 23.09.011 CORRECTION AND AMENDMENT.
   (A)   Requirements. After a final map is recorded in the office of the
County Recorder, it may be amended by a certificate of correction or an
amending map for any of the following purposes:
      (1)   To correct an error in any course or distance shown thereon;
      (2)   To show any course or distance that was omitted therefrom;
      (3)   To correct an error in the description of the real property shown
on the map;
      (4)   To indicate monuments set after the death, disability, retirement
from practice or replacement of the engineer or surveyor charged with
responsibilities for setting monuments;
      (5)   To show the proper location or character of any monument which has
been changed in location or character, or originally was shown at the wrong
location or incorrectly as to its character; and/or
      (6)   To correct any other type of map error or omission as approved by
the County Engineer, which does not affect any property right. The errors and
omissions may include, but are not limited to, lot numbers, acreage, street
names and identification of adjacent record maps. As used in this division,
“error” does not include changes in courses or distances from which an error is
not ascertainable from the data shown on the final map.
   (B)   Form and contents. The amending map or certificate of correction shall
be prepared by a registered civil engineer or licensed land surveyor. The form
and contents of the amending map shall conform to the requirements of §§
23.09.004 and
23.09.005. The amending map or certificate of correction shall set forth in
detail the corrections made and show the names of the present fee owners of the
property affected by the correction.
   (C)   Submittal and approval by County Engineer. The amending map or
certificate of correction, complete as final form, shall be submitted to the
County Engineer for review and approval. The County Engineer shall examine the
amending map or certificate of correction and if the only changes made are
those set forth in division (A) above, he or she shall certify to this fact on
the amending map or certificate of correction.
   (D)   Recording with the County Recorder. The amending map or certificate of
correction, certified by the County Engineer, shall be recorded in the office
of the County Recorder. Upon the filing, the County Recorder shall index the
names of the fee owners and the appropriate subdivision designation shown on
the amending map or certificate of correction in the general index and map
index, respectively. Thereupon, the original map shall be deemed to have been
conclusively so corrected, and thereafter shall impart constructive notice of
all such corrections in the same manner as though set forth upon the original
map.
   (E)   Modifications.
      (1)   A recorded final map may be modified by a certificate of correction
or an amending map if the Planning Commission finds all of the following:
         (a)   There are changes in circumstances which make any or all of the
conditions of such a map no longer appropriate or necessary;
         (b)   The modifications do not impose any additional burden on the
present fee owner of the property;
         (c)   The modifications do not alter any right, title or interest in
the real property reflected on the recorded map; and
         (d)   The map as modified conforms to the provisions of §
23.07.006.
      (2)   The modification shall be set for public hearing before the
Planning Commission in accordance with §
23.07.006. The Planning Commission shall confine the hearing to consideration
of and action on the proposed modification. Any person aggrieved by a decision
of the Planning Commission pursuant to this division may appeal the decision to
the Board of Supervisors in accordance with the provisions of §
23.07.008.
(1966 Code, § 17-37) (Ord. 617, § 2(part))
CHAPTER 23.11: PARCEL MAPS
Section
   
23.11.001   General
   
23.11.002   Survey required
   
23.11.003   Form and contents
   
23.11.004   Submittal for county approval
   
23.11.005   Review and approval by County Engineer
   
23.11.006   Recording with the County Recorder
   
23.11.007   Correction and amendment
   
23.11.008   Waiver of parcel map
§ 23.11.001 GENERAL.
   The form, contents, submittal, approval and recording of parcel maps shall
conform to the provisions of the Subdivision Map Act and this chapter.
(1966 Code, § 17-38) (Ord. 617, § 2(part))
§ 23.11.002 SURVEY REQUIRED.
   An accurate and complete survey of the land to be subdivided or information
based upon compiled data from recorded or filed data when sufficient survey
information exists on filed maps to locate and retrace the exterior boundary
lines of the parcel map if the location of at least one of the boundary lines
can be established from an existing monumented line shall be made by a
registered civil engineer or licensed land surveyor in accordance with Cal.
Gov’t Code § 66448.
(1966 Code, § 17-39) (Ord. 617, § 2(part))
§ 23.11.003 FORM AND CONTENTS.
   The form and contents of the parcel map shall conform to the requirements
regarding the form and contents of final maps set forth in §§
23.09.004 and
23.09.005.
(1966 Code, § 17-40) (Ord. 617, § 2(part))
§ 23.11.004 SUBMITTAL FOR COUNTY APPROVAL.
   The subdivider shall submit prints of the parcel map to the County Engineer
for review. The prints shall be accompanied by copies of the data, plans,
reports and documents as required for final maps by §
23.09.006. The County Engineer may waive any of the informational requirements
of §
23.09.006 if the location and nature of the proposed subdivision does not
justify compliance with the requirements of that section.
(1966 Code, § 17-41) (Ord. 617, § 2(part))
§ 23.11.005 REVIEW AND APPROVAL BY COUNTY ENGINEER.
   (A)   The County Engineer shall review the parcel map and any other required
information and the subdivider shall make corrections and/or additions until
acceptable to the County Engineer.
   (B)   The subdivider shall submit to the County Engineer the original
tracing of the map and any duplicates per county requirements, corrected to its
final form and signed by all parties required to execute the certificates on
the map.
   (C)   The County Engineer shall approve the parcel map if the county has
previously approved a tentative map for the proposed subdivision and if the
County Engineer finds that the parcel map is in compliance with the
requirements of the Subdivision Map Act, this title, the previously approved
tentative map and all conditions thereof. The County Engineer may accept or
rejects offers of dedication made by a statement on the map and may execute
improvement agreements and/or deferred agreements.
(1966 Code, § 17-42) (Ord. 617, § 2(part))
§ 23.11.006 RECORDING WITH THE COUNTY RECORDER.
   Upon approval of the parcel map by the County Engineer, the map shall be
transmitted to the County Recorder and recorded.
(1966 Code, § 17-43) (Ord. 617, § 2(part))
§ 23.11.007 CORRECTION AND AMENDMENT.
   A parcel map that has been recorded in the office of the County Recorder may
be corrected or amended in accordance with the provisions of §
23.09.011.
(1966 Code, § 17-44) (Ord. 617, § 2(part))
§ 23.11.008 WAIVER OF PARCEL MAP.
   (A)   The Planning Commission may, in its discretion, waive the requirements
for a parcel map for any of the following reasons:
      (1)   Division of real property resulting from the conveyance of land or
any interest therein to or from the county, public entity or public utility for
a public purpose, such as school sites, public building sites or rights-of-way
or easements for streets, sewers, utilities, drainage and the like;
      (2)   Division of real property which has been merged pursuant to this
title, the Subdivision Map Act or any prior ordinance of the county;
      (3)   Construction of a condominium project on a single parcel; and
      (4)   Any other subdivision of real property which would otherwise
require a parcel map.
   (B)   The Planning Commission shall make a finding that the proposed
subdivision of land complies with requirements as to area, improvement and
design, floodwater drainage control, appropriate improved public roads,
sanitary disposal facilities, water supply availability, environmental
protection and other requirements of the Subdivision Map Act, this title, this
code and the general plan.
   (C)   Upon waiver of the parcel map requirements and submittal of the
required information, the County Engineer shall prepare a certificate of
compliance for the land to be subdivided, in accordance with §
23.23.003, and a plat map showing the division prepared by the applicant’s
engineer. The certificate shall include a certificate by the county’s Tax
Collector in accordance with §
23.09.006.
   (D)   A waiver by the Planning Commission may be conditioned to provide for,
among other things, payment by the subdivider of parkland dedication, drainage
and other fees that are permitted by law by a method approved by the Planning
Commission.
(1966 Code, § 17-45) (Ord. 617, § 2(part))
CHAPTER 23.13: VESTING TENTATIVE MAPS
Section
   
23.13.001   Application
   
23.13.002   Submitting and processing
   
23.13.003   Fees
   
23.13.004   Expiration
   
23.13.005   Rights of a vesting tentative map
   
23.13.006   Amendment to vesting tentative map
§ 23.13.001 APPLICATION.
   (A)   Whenever a provision of the Subdivision Map Act, as implemented and
supplemented by this title, requires the submitting of a tentative map, a
vesting tentative map may instead be filed, in accordance with the provisions
of this chapter and Map Act Chapter 4.5, “Development Rights”.
   (B)   If a subdivider does not seek the rights conferred by a vesting
tentative map, the submitting of a vesting tentative map shall not be a
prerequisite to any approval for any proposed subdivision, permit for
construction or work preparatory to construction.
(1966 Code, § 17-46) (Ord. 617, § 2(part))
§ 23.13.002 SUBMITTING AND PROCESSING.
   A vesting tentative shall be submitted in the same form and have the same
contents, accompanying data and reports, and shall be processed in the same
manner as set forth in this title for a tentative map, except that at the time
a vesting tentative map is filed, it shall have printed conspicuously on its
face the words “Vesting Tentative Map”.
(1966 Code, § 17-47) (Ord. 617, § 2(part))
§ 23.13.003 FEES.
   (A)   Upon the submitting of a vesting tentative map, the subdivider shall
pay all fees and/or deposits in accordance with §
23.01.007.
   (B)   The Planning Commission may require as a condition of its approval
that the payment by the subdivider of all development fees required to be paid
at the time of the application for, or issuance of, a building permit or other
similar permit shall be made at the rate for the fees in effect at the time of
the application or issuance.
(1966 Code, § 17-48) (Ord. 617, § 2(part))
§ 23.13.004 EXPIRATION.
   The approval or conditional approval of a vesting tentative map shall expire
at the end of the same time period, and shall be subject to the same
extensions, established by this title for the expiration of the approval or
conditional approval of a tentative map.
(1966 Code, § 17-49) (Ord. 617, § 2(part))
§ 23.13.005 RIGHTS OF A VESTING TENTATIVE MAP.
   (A)   The approval or conditional approval of a vesting tentative map shall
confer a vested right to proceed with development in substantial compliance
with the ordinances, policies, and standards described in Cal. Gov’t Code §
66474.2. However, if § 66474.2 is repealed, the approval or conditional
approval of a vesting tentative map shall confer a vested right to proceed with
development in substantial compliance with the ordinances, policies and
standards in effect at the time the vesting tentative map is approved or
conditionally approved.
   (B)   Notwithstanding division (A), a permit, approval, extension or
entitlement may be conditioned or denied if any of the following are
determined:
      (1)   A failure to do so would place the residents of the subdivision or
the immediate community, or both, in a condition dangerous to their health or
safety, or both; and
      (2)   The condition or denial is required, in order to comply with state
or federal law.
   (C)   The rights referred to herein shall expire if a final or parcel map is
not recorded prior to the expiration of the vesting tentative map as provided
herein. If the final or parcel map is recorded, these rights shall last for the
following periods of time:
      (1)   An initial time period of one year beyond the recording of the
final or parcel map. Where several final maps are recorded on various phases of
a project covered by a single vesting tentative map, the one-year initial time
period shall begin for each phase when the final map for that phase is
recorded;
      (2)   The initial one-year time period set forth in division (C)(1) above
shall be automatically extended by any time used for processing a complete
application for a grading permit or for design or architectural review, if the
processing exceeds 30 days from the date a complete application is filed;
      (3)   A subdivider may apply to the Planning Commission for a one-year
extension at any time before the initial time period set forth in division (C)
(1) above expires. If the extension is denied, the subdivider may appeal that
denial to the Board of Supervisors within ten days in accordance with §
23.07.008; and
      (4)   If the subdivider submits a complete application for a building
permit during the periods of time specified in divisions (C)(1) through (3)
above, the rights referred to herein shall continue until the expiration of
that permit, or any extension of that permit.
   (D)   Consistent with division (A) above, an approved or conditionally
approved vesting tentative map shall not limit the county from imposing
reasonable conditions on subsequent required approvals or permits necessary for
the development and authorized by the ordinances, policies and standards
described in division (A) above.
   (E)   Notwithstanding any provision of this chapter, a property owner or his
or her designee may seek approvals or permits for development which depart from
the ordinances, policies and standards described in division (A), and the
county may grant these approvals or issue these permits to the extent that the
departures are authorized under this title, this code, the general plan and
other applicable law.
(1966 Code, § 17-50) (Ord. 617, § 2(part))
§ 23.13.006 AMENDMENT TO VESTING TENTATIVE MAP.
   Any time prior to the expiration of a vesting tentative map, the subdivider
or his or her assignee may apply for an amendment to the vesting tentative map
in accordance with the provisions of §
23.07.011.
(1966 Code, § 17-51) (Ord. 617, § 2(part))
CHAPTER 23.15: DEDICATIONS, RESERVATIONS AND DEVELOPMENT FEES
Section
   
23.15.001   Applicability of chapter/dedications
   
23.15.002   Dedication of streets, alleys and other public rights-of-way or
easements
   
23.15.003   Dedication of bicycle paths
   
23.15.004   Dedication of local transit facilities
   
23.15.005   Dedication of solar access easements
   
23.15.006   Dedication of elementary school site
   
23.15.007   Interim classroom facilities
   
23.15.008   Dedication of parkland
   
23.15.009   Reservations
   
23.15.010   Fees for infrastructure
   
23.15.011   (Reserved)
Cross-reference:
   County Service Areas, see
Chapter 19.07 of this code
§ 23.15.001 APPLICABILITY OF CHAPTER/DEDICATIONS.
   The provisions of this
Chapter 23.15 shall not apply within the boundaries of any adopted specific
plan, unless specifically provided herein. All dedications of property to the
county for public purposes shall be made in fee title, except that, in the
county's discretion, a grant of an easement may be made for the following
purposes: open space easements, public utility easements or other appropriate
easements. All dedications in fee and grants of easements shall be free of
liens and encumbrances except for those which the county, in its discretion,
determines would not conflict with the intended ownership and use. The county
may elect to accept an irrevocable offer of dedication in lieu of dedication of
fee title.
(1966 Code, § 17-52) (Ord. 617, § 2(part); Ord. 860, § 4 (part), 2010)
§ 23.15.002 DEDICATION OF STREETS, ALLEYS AND OTHER PUBLIC RIGHTS-OF- WAY OR
EASEMENTS.
   (A)   As a condition of approval of a tentative map, a subdivider shall
dedicate, or make an irrevocable offer of dedication of real property within
the subdivision that is needed for streets, roads and alleys, including access
rights and abutters’ rights, drainage, public utility easements and other
public easements. In addition, the subdivider shall improve or agree to improve
all streets and alleys, including access rights and abutters’ rights, drainage,
public utility easements and other public easements. Improvements shall be in
accordance with
Chapter 23.17 of this title.
   (B)   The county may require as a condition of approval of a tentative map
that dedications or offers of dedication of streets include a waiver of direct
access rights to any such street from any property shown on the final or parcel
map as abutting thereon. Upon acceptance of the dedication, such waiver shall
become effective in accordance with its provisions.
(1966 Code, § 17-53) (Ord. 617, § 2(part))
§ 23.15.003 DEDICATION OF BICYCLE PATHS.
   Where a subdivider of a subdivision containing 200 or more parcels or over
100 acres is required pursuant to §
23.15.002 to dedicate roadways to the public, they may also be required to
dedicate such additional land as may be necessary and feasible to provide
bicycle paths for the use and safety of the residents of the subdivision.
(1966 Code, § 17-54) (Ord. 617, § 2(part))
§ 23.15.004 DEDICATION OF LOCAL TRANSIT FACILITIES.
   (A)   As a condition of approval of a tentative map, a subdivider shall
dedicate, or make an irrevocable offer of dedication, of land within the
subdivision for local transit facilities such as shelters, benches, bus
turnouts, landing pads, park-and-ride facilities and similar items which
directly benefit the residents of the subdivision, if the Planning Commission
finds the following:
      (1)   That the subdivision as shown on the tentative map has the
potential for 200 dwelling units or more if developed to the maximum density
shown on the general plan or contains 100 acres or more; and
      (2)   That transit services are or will, within a reasonable time period,
be made available to the subdivision.
   (B)   The provisions of this section do not apply to condominium projects or
stock cooperatives which consist of the subdivision of airspace in an existing
apartment building which is more than five years old when no new dwelling units
are added.
(1966 Code, § 17-55) (Ord. 617, § 2(part))
§ 23.15.005 DEDICATION OF SOLAR ACCESS EASEMENTS.
   (A)   General. As a condition of approval of a tentative map, there may be
imposed, in accordance with the provisions of Cal. Gov’t Code § 66475.3, a
requirement that a subdivider dedicate easements for the purpose of assuring
that each parcel or unit in the subdivision shall have the right to receive
sunlight across adjacent parcels or units in the subdivision for any solar
energy system, as defined in Cal. Civil Code § 801.5.
   (B)   Standards and procedure.
      (1)   In establishing such easements, consideration shall be given to
feasibility, contour, configuration of the parcel to be divided, and cost.
Required easements shall not result in reducing allowable densities or the
percentage of a lot which may be occupied by a building or a structure under
applicable planning and zoning in force at the time the tentative map is deemed
complete.
      (2)   At the time of tentative map approval, the Planning Commission
shall specify the following:
         (a)   The standards for determining the exact dimensions and locations
of the easements;
         (b)   Any restrictions on vegetation, buildings and other objects
which would obstruct the passage of sunlight through in easement; and
         (c)   The term or conditions, if any, under which an easement may be
revised or terminated.
   (C)   Exemptions. The provisions of this section do not apply to condominium
projects which consist of the subdivision of airspace in an existing building
where no new structures are added.
(1966 Code, § 17-56) (Ord. 617, § 2(part))
§ 23.15.006 DEDICATION OF ELEMENTARY SCHOOL SITE.
   (A)   General. As a condition of approval of a tentative map, a subdivider
who develops or completes the development of one or more subdivisions in one or
more school districts maintaining an elementary school shall dedicate to the
school district or districts such lands as the county shall deem to be
necessary for the purpose of constructing thereon elementary schools necessary
to assure the residents of the subdivision adequate public school service. The
dedication shall be in conformity with the provisions of Cal. Gov’t Code §
66478 and this section.
   (B)   Procedure. The requirement of dedication shall be imposed at the time
of approval of the tentative map. If, within 30 days after the requirement of
dedication is imposed by the county the school district does not offer to enter
into a binding commitment with the subdivider to accept the dedication, the
requirement shall be automatically terminated. The required dedication may be
made any time before, concurrently with, or up to 60 days after the recording
of the final or parcel map on any portion of the subdivision.
   (C)   Payment to subdivider. The school district shall, in the event it
accepts the dedication, repay to the subdivider or his or her successors the
original cost to the subdivider of the dedicated land, plus a sum equal to the
total of the following amounts:
      (1)   The cost of any improvements to the dedicated land since
acquisition by the subdivider;
      (2)   The taxes assessed against the dedicated land from the date of the
school district’s offer to enter into the binding commitment to accept the
dedication; and
      (3)   Any other costs incurred by the subdivider in maintenance of such
dedicated land, including interest costs incurred on any loan covering the
land.
   (D)   Exemptions. The provisions of this section shall not be applicable to
a subdivider who has owned the land being subdivided for more than ten years
prior to the submitting of an application for the tentative map in accordance
with the provisions of the Subdivision Map Act and this title.
(1966 Code, § 17-57) (Ord. 617, § 2(part))
§ 23.15.007 INTERIM CLASSROOM FACILITIES.
   (A)   Authority, purpose and intent.
      (1)   This section is enacted pursuant to the authority of Cal. Gov’t
Code §§ 65970 et seq. for the purpose of providing interim school facilities to
alleviate conditions of overcrowding caused by new residential development.
      (2)   The Board of Supervisors finds:
         (a)   Public education in the primary and secondary grades is provided
in the county by numerous school districts;
         (b)   From time to time, a new residential development may cause
overcrowding in one or more schools in one or more of the districts;
         (c)   The county general plan provides for the location of schools and
this section is consistent with the general plan; and
         (d)   It is necessary that a method be available to provide the
district with interim classroom facilities when conditions of overcrowding
exist, in order that education not be adversely affected.
   (B)   Definitions. In addition to the definitions set forth in Cal. Gov’t
Code §§ 65973 and 65980 and §
23.15.007 of this title, the following definitions shall apply to this section:
      DECLARATION OF IMPACT. A statement adopted by the School Board, and
forwarded to the Board of Supervisors, declaring the existence of an impacted
school or schools, in accordance with the findings and other requirements of
Cal. Gov’t Code § 65971. The declaration of impact may include the schedule
required by Cal. Gov’t Code § 65976.
      DISTRICT. Any district under the jurisdiction of the San Benito County
Schools Superintendent.
      SCHOOL BOARD. The Board of Trustees of any district under the
jurisdiction of San Benito County School Superintendent.
   (C)   Action by the Board. The School Board may, from time to time, adopt a
declaration of impact and file the same with the Clerk of the Board of
Supervisors for consideration by the Board of Supervisors.
   (D)   Action by the Board of Supervisors. Upon receipt of a declaration of
impact from the School Board and the schedule required by Cal. Gov’t Code §
65976, the Board of Supervisors shall, if it concurs in the findings set forth
in the declaration of impact, withhold approval of, or order the appropriate
officer, employee or commission within the county to withhold approval of, new
residential development within the attendance area of the impacted school or
schools pending compliance with division (E) below.
   (E)   Mitigation measures.
      (1)   The Board of Supervisors shall require, as a condition of approval
of new development within the attendance area of an impacted school, either the
dedication of land, the payment of fees in lieu thereof, or a combination of
both, in accordance with the provisions of Cal. Gov’t Code § 65974. Zone
changes and general plan amendments shall be required to provide full
mitigation of school facility impacts.
      (2)   The decision concerning whether to require the dedication of land,
payment of fees or an appropriate combination shall be determined after
consultation with the School Board concerning the needs of the particular
district as they relate to the impacted school or schools.
      (3)   The amount of any fees shall be in accordance with the provisions
of Cal. Gov’t Code Chapter 4.9 (commencing with § 65995) of Division 1 of Title
7, shall be prescribed by resolution of the Board of Supervisors, and shall be
collected at the time of issuance of a building permit.
   (F)   Use of fees and land-accounting.
      (1)   A district shall use the land and/or fees solely to alleviate the
conditions of overcrowding within the affected attendance area.
      (2)   A district shall provide to the Board of Supervisors the report
required by Cal. Gov’t Code § 65978.
   (G)   Right of the Board of Supervisors to disapprove development or require
other fees. Nothing in this section shall be construed to limit the right of
the county to disapprove new residential development for any lawful reason,
including, but not limited to, the impact that the development may have on a
school or schools within any district which cannot be alleviated by the
provisions of this section.
(1966 Code, § 17-58) (Ord. 617, § 2(part))
§ 23.15.008 DEDICATION OF PARKLAND.
   (A)   Definitions. The following definitions shall apply to this section:
      COMMUNITY PARK. Shall be two to ten acres, and designed to provide
passive and active recreation features tailored to the specific needs and
desires of the neighborhood, generally within a three-mile radius, with
consideration of ongoing maintenance responsibilities and costs.
      Appropriate uses: preschool and elementary-aged play areas, hard courts,
specialty courts, picnic area, shaded seating area, open grass area, limited
sports fields for league play, walking and bicycling trails, dog off-leash
area, restrooms, off-street parking, and lit recreation facilities.
      MINI PARK. Shall be one acre or less, and designed to provide passive and
active recreation features tailored to the specific needs and desires of the
immediate neighborhood, with consideration of ongoing maintenance
responsibilities and costs.
      Appropriate uses: specialized facilities that serve a concentrated or
limited population or specific group, such as tots or senior citizens.
      NEIGHBORHOOD PARK. Shall be one to three acres, and designed to provide
passive and active recreation features tailored to the specific needs and
desires of the neighborhood, generally within a half-mile radius, with
consideration of ongoing maintenance responsibilities and costs.
      Appropriate uses: preschool and elementary-aged play areas, hard courts,
specialty courts, picnic area, shaded seating area, open grass area, limited
sports fields for league play, walking and bicycling trails, and dog off-leash
area. Restroom facilities may be incorporated, dependant upon the park layout.
Off-street parking and lit recreation facilities are not included.
      NEIGHBORHOOD/SCHOOL PARK. Shall be two to ten acres, similar in size and
function to a community park, but is located immediately adjacent to a school.
Some of the recreation features can be combined with the school site, such as
hard courts, sports fields, and play areas, to maximize efficient use of
resources. Play areas, tables, and benches should be incorporated so as to
allow day use of the community park component during school hours. Use of
school restroom facilities or the development of separate restroom facilities
shall be considered.
      PARKS AND RECREATION COMMISSION. The San Benito County Parks and
Recreation Commission is a nine member commission, established to make
recommendations to the Board of Supervisors on all current and future county
parks, except the Veterans’ Memorial, including: use of existing county park
facilities including the development of park improvements to the facilities;
the need for future park facilities and their location(s); development of
recreational activities and programs at county park facilities; use of federal,
state and local funds for parks and recreation facilities and activities; joint
use of park facilities with other agencies; coordination with federal, state
and local parks and recreation agencies to enhance the use of park facilities
throughout the county; and other issues as deemed appropriate by a majority
vote of the Board of Supervisors.
      PARKS AND RECREATION FACILITIES MASTER PLAN. Adopted by the Board of
Supervisors on July 27, 2010, the purpose of the Parks and Recreation
Facilities Master Plan is to define a vision for parks and recreation in San
Benito County for the next 20 years and beyond, to determine  the role of the
county within that vision, and to develop a realistic implementation program to
achieve that vision. The Master Plan identifies existing conditions and
community needs, recommends capital improvements, and establishes parkland
development requirements and classification systems.
      PARKS MANAGER. The County Administrative Officer, or designee.
      RECREATIONAL OPEN SPACE. The size of recreational open space depends on
the resource to be preserved. The primary purpose of the recreational open
space is to preserve and protect unique natural resources, while providing for
compatible limited public recreation use.
      Appropriate uses: staging areas, including parking and restrooms,
interpretive signage, stations and centers, hiking and bicycling trails,
fitness trails, overlooks and kiosks.
      REGIONAL PARK. Shall be a minimum of 10 acres, and serve all county
residents and may attract regional residents. Regional parks are often
destination parks that encourage higher levels of public use and longer user-
days than the community park, and may have unique landscape features that
enhance community identity.
      Appropriate uses: lit sports fields for night use, concession stand,
restrooms, off-street parking, amphitheater, multi-use community center, nature
center, gymnasium, aquatics facility, water feature for play, group picnic
areas, dog off-leash area, BMX track, equestrian facilities, fitness par
courses, special group camping areas.
      SPECIAL USE FACILITIES. The size of special use facilities depends on the
type of facility. Special use facilities meet the county-wide recreational
needs and are not necessarily located in parks.
      Appropriate uses: aquatics center, cultural center or community center
are examples of special use facilities.
      SPORTS PARK. Shall be a minimum 20 acres, and serve residents county-
wide, community-based sports organizations and school programs; may also serve
limited non-resident sport participants for tournaments and regional play.
      Appropriate uses: sports fields, including lit fields for night use,
concession areas, restrooms, off-street parking, play area, associated
facilities for storage and maintenance.
      TRAILS/LINEAR PARKWAYS. Existing and proposed trails and linear parkways
are identified in the San Benito County Parks and Recreation Facilities Master
Plan. Specific trail development standards shall be established in a separate
master plan document. County trails shall be coordinated with the San Benito
County Bikeway and Pedestrian Master Plan.
      Appropriate uses: trails may include staging areas, including parking and
restrooms, benches and shade structures, interpretive and directional signage,
fitness trails, overlooks, and where sufficiently wide, neighborhood park and
sport park features.
   (B)   Purpose and requirements. Pursuant to Cal. Gov’t Code § 66477 and to
implement the San Benito County Parks and Recreation Facilities Master Plan,
the subdivider shall dedicate land, pay a fee in lieu thereof or a combination
of both, at the option of the county for park or recreational purposes as a
condition of approval of a final map or a parcel map at the time of approval
and according to the standards contained in this chapter. The land dedicated or
the fees paid, or both, shall be used for local or regional community and
neighborhood parks and recreational facilities in such a manner that the
locations and use of such parks and recreational facilities bear a reasonable
relationship to the anticipated use of the park and recreational facilities by
the inhabitants of the subdivision generating such dedication or fees, or both.
   (C)   General standard. It is hereby found and determined that the public
interest, convenience, health, welfare and safety require that five acres of
property for each 1,000 persons residing within this county be devoted to park
and recreational services.
   (D)   Standards and formula for dedication of land. Where a neighborhood or
community park or recreational facility has been designated in the adopted
general plan and is to be located in whole or in part within the proposed
subdivision to serve the immediate and future needs of the residents of the
subdivision, the subdivider shall dedicate land for park sufficient in size and
topography to serve the residents of the subdivision and to conform to the
adopted general plan. Value credited for dedicated lands in excess of 20% slope
or subject to inundation due to a 100-year storm shall be adjusted to reflect
the reduced utility of the lands for park purposes. The amount of land to be
provided shall be determined pursuant to the following standards:
      (1)   Formula based on dwelling units.
         (a)   The formula for determining acreage to be dedicated shall be as
follows:
 
Dwelling Type                 Assumed Density   Standard
Single family residential     3 persons/DU      .015 acre/DU
Multi-family residential      2.1 persons/DU    .010 acre/DU
Designated senior residential 2 persons/DU      .010 acre/DU (retirement unit)
Other                         per approved plan .005 acre/person
 
         (b)   For the purpose of this section, the number of proposed dwelling
units shall be determined as follows:
            1.   In areas zoned for one dwelling unit per lot or parcel, the
number of dwelling units shall equal the number of parcels indicated on the
tentative map.
            2.   When all or part of the subdivision is located in an area
zoned for multiple dwelling units per parcel, the number of dwelling units in
the area so zoned shall equal the maximum number of dwelling units allowed
under that zone.
            3.   For residential condominium projects, the number of dwelling
units shall equal the number of condominium units indicated on the tentative
map.
            4.   For planned development projects, the number of dwelling units
shall equal the number of dwelling units indicated on the approved final
development plan.
         (c)   The term DWELLING UNIT, for purposes of this section, shall not
include units lawfully in place prior to the date of tentative map approval.
         (d)   Dedication of the land shall be made in accordance with the
procedures contained in the Map Act.
         (e)   The following types of parks will not be counted towards the
parks acres per 1,000 population:
            1.    “Mini-park”.
            2.   Parks maintained by a home owners association and not open to
the public.
            3.   Active recreation facilities located within detention/
retention basins or portions of parks with excessive slopes or that have other
use limitations.
            4.   Facilities on school property will not be counted unless they
are special use facilities developed through a joint use agreement for
community recreational use, such as sports fields, gymnasium or swimming pool.
         (f)   Lands to be dedicated or reserved for park and/or recreational
purposes shall be suitable in the opinion of the Planning Commission with
recommendations provided by the Director of Planning and Building, the Parks
Manager and the Parks and Recreation Commission, in location, topography,
environmental characteristics, and development potential as related to the
intended use. Principal consideration shall be given to lands that offer:
            1.   A variety of recreational potential for all age groups;
            2.    Recreational opportunities within walking distance from
residents’ homes;
            3.   Possibility for expansion or connection with school grounds;
            4.   Integration with hiking, riding and bicycle trails, natural
stream reserves and other open space;
            5.    Coordination with all other park systems; and
            6.   Access to at least one existing or proposed public street.
         (g)   Recreational open space may be substituted for developable
parkland. Open space shall be valued at 10% of the value of useable parkland.
No more than 10% of total parkland may be open space. San Benito County is not
obligated to accept open space in lieu of developable parkland, but may
consider it as an option. San Benito County may require trails or other such
features in order for the open space to qualify as parkland.
      (2)   Fee in lieu of dedication.
         (a)   General formula. If there is no park or recreational facility
designated in the general plan or the San Benito County Parks and Recreation
Facilities Master Plan to serve the immediate and future needs of the residents
of the subdivision, the subdivider shall, either dedicate land in the amount
provided in §
23.15.008(D)(1) or pay a fee in lieu of dedication equal to the value of the
land prescribed for dedication in §
23.15.008(D)(1) and in an amount determined in accordance with the provisions
of §
23.15.008(F).
         (b)   Fees in lieu of land—Fifty parcels or less. Except as provided
in §
23.15.008(E), if the subdivision does not provide and has no park or
recreational facilities, the subdivider shall pay a fee equal to the land value
of the portion of the park or recreational facilities required to serve the
needs of the residents of the proposed subdivision as prescribed in §
23.15.008(D)(1) and in an amount determined in accordance with the provisions
of §
23.15.008(F).
         (c)   Use of money. The money collected shall be used, in accordance
with the schedule developed pursuant to §
23.15.008(J), for the purpose of acquisition, development and rehabilitation of
existing facilities, developing new or rehabilitation of existing neighborhood
or community park or recreational facilities reasonably related to serving the
subdivision, including the purchase of necessary land and/or improvement of
such land for park or recreational purposes. The money shall be committed
within five years after payment thereof or the issuance of building permits on
one-half of the lots created by the subdivision, whichever occurs later. If the
money is not committed, it shall be distributed and paid to the then record
owners of the subdivision in the same proportion as their ownership that the
size of their lot bears to the total area of all lots in the subdivision.
Appropriating of funds shall not apply to wages, benefits or similar uses.
   (E)   Criteria for requiring both dedication and fee. If the proposed
subdivision contains more than 50 parcels, or, in the case of a condominium
project or community apartment, if the proposed subdivision contains more than
50 dwelling units, the subdivider shall both dedicate land and pay a fee in
lieu of dedication as determined by the county in accordance with the
following:
      (1)   When only a portion of the land to be subdivided is proposed in the
general plan or the San Benito County Parks and Recreation Facilities Master
Plan as the site for a local park or recreational facility, such portion shall
be dedicated for local park purposes and a fee computed pursuant to the
provisions of §
23.15.008(F) shall be paid for any additional land that would have been
required to be dedicated pursuant to §
23.15.008(F).
      (2)   When a major part of the local park or recreational site has
already been acquired by the county and only a small portion of land is needed
from the subdivision to complete the site, such portion shall be dedicated, and
a fee, computed according to §
23.15.008(F) shall be paid in an amount equal to the value of the land which
would otherwise have been required to be dedicated according to §
23.15.008(D)(1). The fee shall be used for the improvement of the existing park
or recreational facility or for the improvement of other local neighborhood or
community parks and recreational facilities reasonably related to serving the
subdivision.
   (F)   Amount of fee in lieu of parkland dedication. When a fee is required
to be paid in lieu of parkland dedication, the amount of the fee shall be based
upon the estimated fair market value of the unimproved useable land being
subdivided and the estimated fair market value of the land which would
otherwise be required to be dedicated according to §
23.15.008(D)(1).
      (1)   The fair market value shall be as determined by the County Assessor
for each six month period prior to January 1st and July 1st of each calendar
year. For purposes of determining fair market value pursuant to this
subsection, the County Assessor and any appraiser shall consider, among other
things:
         (a)   Conditions of similar nearby properties of developed or useable
land with entitlements in the county;
         (b)   The general plan and zoning requirements for the area;
         (c)   The location and site characteristics of the property; and
         (d)   Off-site and on-site improvements facilitating use of the
property.
   (G)   Determination of land or fee. Whether the county accepts land
dedication, or elects to require the payment of a fee in lieu thereof, or a
combination of both, the following shall be determined by consideration:
      (1)   Policies, standards and principles for park and recreation
facilities in the general plan;
      (2)   Topography, geology, access and location of land in the subdivision
available for dedication;
      (3)   Size and shape of the subdivision and land available for
dedication;
      (4)   Feasibility of dedication;
      (5)   Compatibility of dedication with the general plan;
      (6)   Availability of existing local or regional previously acquired park
property within a reasonable distance or reasonably related to serve the
subdivision; and
      (7)   Recommendations of the Parks and Recreation Commission and Parks
and Recreation Facilities Master Plan.
The determination by the county as to whether land shall be dedicated, or
whether a fee shall be charged, or a combination, shall be final and
conclusive.
   (H)   Credit for improvements. If the subdivider provides park and
recreational improvements to the dedicated land, the value of the improvements
together with any equipment located thereon shall be a credit against the
payment of fees or dedication of land required by this section.
   (I)   Procedure.
      (1)   At the time of the approval or conditional approval of the
tentative map, the Planning Commission or the applicable development review
committee, as the case may be, shall determine, after a report and
recommendation from the Parks and Recreation Commission, whether land, in-lieu
fees or combination of land and fees, shall be dedicated and/or paid by the
subdivider.
      (2)   The body approving the tentative map may approve, modify or
disapprove the recommendation of the Parks and Recreation Commission; provided
that, however, any modification of the proposed recommended condition not
previously considered by the Parks and Recreation Commission shall first be
referred back to the Parks and Recreation Commission for a report and further
recommendation. The Parks Manager shall report back to the approving body with
the Parks and Recreation Commission’s recommendations within 30 days. After
receipt and consideration of the report, or after 30 days have passed in the
event no report is received, the approving body may act on the condition.
      (3)   The recommendation of the Parks and Recreation Commission, with
assistance from the Parks Manager shall include the following:
         (a)   The amount of land required; or
         (b)   That a fee be charged in lieu of land; or
         (c)   That a combination of land and a fee be required; and
         (d)   The location of the park land and, where appropriate, the siting
and conceptual design of the park facilities appurtenant thereto, to be
dedicated or used in lieu of fees; and
         (e)   The approximate time when the development of the park and
recreation facility shall commence.
      (4)   At the time of the recording of the final map or parcel map, the
subdivider shall dedicate the land and/or pay the fees as determined by the
county.
      (5)   Prior to the approval of the final map or parcel map, the
subdivider shall develop a park and recreation facility schedule to include the
following:
         (a)   The location of the park land and, where appropriate, the siting
and conceptual design of the park facilities appurtenant thereto, to be
dedicated or used in lieu of fees; and
         (b)   The approximate time when the development of the park and
recreation facility shall commence.
      (6)   Open space covenants, conditions and restrictions for private parks
or recreational facilities shall be submitted to the Parks Manager prior to
approval of the final map or parcel map and, if approved, shall be recorded
concurrently with the final map or parcel map.
      (7)   At the time of the recording of the final map or parcel map, the
subdivider shall dedicate the land and/or pay the fees as determined by the
county.
   (J)   Schedule of use. The county shall develop a schedule specifying how,
when, and where it will use the land or fees, or both, to develop or
rehabilitate park and recreational facilities to serve the residents of the
subdivision. The Parks Manager shall enforce the plan and report to the Parks
and Recreation Commission on a yearly basis for the five year period in which
the money is to be utilized.
   (K)   Not applicable to certain subdivisions. The provisions of this §
23.15.008 shall not apply to the following:
      (1)   Subdivisions containing four or less parcels and not used for
residential purposes. However, a condition may be placed on the approval of
such parcel map that if a building permit is requested for construction of a
residential structure or structures on one or more of the parcels, the fee
pursuant to this section may be required to be paid by the owner of such parcel
as a condition to the issuance of such permit.
      (2)   Commercial or industrial subdivisions.
   (L)   Development agreements. If a developer enters into a development
agreement, per
Chapter 19.11 of the San Benito County Code, the developer may deviate from
these park standards if they are providing parkland dedication, parkland fees
or a combination above the basic requirements of this section.
(1966 Code, § 17-59) (Ord. 617, § 2(part); Ord. 908, § 1, 2012)
§ 23.15.009 RESERVATIONS.
   (A)   General. As a condition of approval of a tentative map, a subdivider
shall reserve sites within the subdivision, appropriate in area and location,
for parks, recreation facilities, fire stations, libraries or other public uses
according to the standards and formula contained in this section.
   (B)   Standards for reservation of land. Where a park, recreational
facility, fire station, library or other public use is shown on the general
plan or an adopted specific plan, the subdivider may be required by the county
to reserve sites as so determined by the county in accordance with the policies
and standards contained in the general plan or the adopted specific plan. The
reserved area must be of a size and shape as to permit the balance of the
property within which the reservation is located to develop in an orderly and
efficient manner. The amount of land to be reserved shall not make development
of the remaining land held by the subdivider economically infeasible. The
reserved area shall be consistent with the general plan or the adopted specific
plan and shall be in such multiples of streets and parcels as to permit an
efficient division of the reserved area in the event that it is not acquired
within the prescribed period.
   (C)   Procedure. The public agency for whose benefit an area has been
reserved, at its discretion, shall, at the time of approval of the final or
parcel map, enter into a binding agreement to acquire the reserved area within
two years after the completion and acceptance of all improvements, unless the
period of time is extended by mutual agreement.
   (D)   Payment to subdivider. The purchase price for the reserved area shall
be the market value thereof at the time of the submittal of the tentative map
plus the taxes against the reserved area from the date of the reservation and
any other costs incurred by the subdivider in the maintenance of the reserved
area, including interest costs incurred on any loan covering the reserved area.
   (E)   Termination. If the public agency for whose benefit an area has been
reserved does not enter into a binding agreement in accordance with this
section, the reservation of the area shall automatically terminate.
(1966 Code, § 17-60) (Ord. 617, § 2(part))
§ 23.15.010 FEES FOR INFRASTRUCTURE.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to make provision for
assessing and collecting fees as a condition of approval of a parcel or final
map or as a condition of issuing a building permit, for the purpose of
defraying the actual or estimated cost of constructing storm drains, sanitary
sewers, bridges or major thoroughfares pursuant to Cal. Gov’t Code §§ 66483 and
66484, and to implement the transportation element of the general plan.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purposes of this section, the following words and
phrases shall be construed as defined in this division.
      CONSTRUCTION. Design, acquisition of right-of-way, administration of
construction contracts, actual construction and inspections.
      MAJOR THOROUGHFARE. A public roadway as shown on the transportation
element of the general plan whose primary purpose is to carry through traffic
and/or provide a network connecting to the state highway system.
   (C)   Payment of fees.
      (1)   Prior to recording a parcel or final map that includes land within
an area of benefit established pursuant to this section, a subdivider shall pay
or cause to be paid any fees established and apportioned to the property
pursuant to this section for the purpose of defraying the actual or estimated
cost of construction.
      (2)   Prior to the issuance of a building permit for construction on any
property within an area of benefit established pursuant to this section, an
applicant for the permit shall pay or cause to be paid any fees established and
apportioned pursuant to this section for the purpose of defraying the actual or
estimated cost of construction, unless the fees have been paid pursuant to
division (C)(1) above.
      (3)   Notwithstanding the provisions of divisions (C)(1) and (2) above:
         (a)   Payment of bridge fees shall not be required unless the planned
bridge facility is an original bridge serving the area or an addition to or
reconstruction of any existing bridge facility serving the area at the time of
adoption of the boundaries of the area of benefit. Bridge fees shall not be
expended to reimburse the cost of existing bridge facility construction.
         (b)   Payment of major thoroughfare fees shall not be required unless
the major thoroughfares are in addition to, or a reconstruction of, any
existing major thoroughfares serving the area at the time of the adoption of
the boundaries of the area of benefit.
   (D)   Consideration in lieu of fees. Upon application by the subdivider or
applicant for a building permit, the Board of Supervisors may accept
consideration in lieu of the payment of fees required pursuant to this section;
provided that the Board of Supervisors finds, upon recommendation of the County
Engineer:
      (1)   That the substitute consideration has a value equal to or greater
than the fee required pursuant to this section; and
      (2)   That the substitute consideration is in a form acceptable to the
Board of Supervisors.
   (E)   Public hearing. Prior to establishing an area of benefit, a public
hearing shall be held by the Board of Supervisors at which time the boundaries
of the area of benefit, the costs, whether actual or estimated, and a fair
method of allocation of costs to the area of benefit and fee apportionment
shall be established. Notice of the public hearing shall be given pursuant to §
23.07.006 and shall include preliminary information related to the boundaries
of the area of benefit, estimated cost and the method of fee apportionment.
   (F)   Amount. The amount of the fee and the area of benefit established
pursuant to this section may be established by ordinance or resolution.
   (G)   Exemptions. The provisions of this section shall not be applicable to
the issuance of building permits for the following type of development:
      (1)   The use, alteration or enlargement of an existing building or
structure or the erection of one or more buildings or structures accessory
thereto, or both, on the same lot or parcel of land; provided that the total
value, as determined by the Building Official, of all such alteration,
enlargement or construction completed after the effective date of the ordinance
codified in this title does not exceed 15% of the current building size (square
feet), as determined by the Building Official, of all existing buildings on the
lot or parcel of land, and the alteration or enlargement of the building is not
such as to change its classification of occupancy as defined by § 501 of the
Uniform Building Code;
      (2)   The following accessory buildings and structures: private garages,
children’s playhouses, radio and television receiving antennas, windmills,
silos, tank houses, shops, barns, coops and other buildings which are accessory
to single or duplex family dwellings.
   (H)   Protest.
      (1)   At any time not later than the hour set for hearing objections to
the proposed bridge facility or major thoroughfare, a protest by the owners of
more than one-half of the area of the property to be benefitted by the
improvement may be recorded with the Clerk of the Board. The protest must be in
writing and must contain a description of the property in which each signer
thereof is interested, sufficient to identify the property, and, if the signers
are not shown on the latest equalized assessment roll as the owners of the
property, must contain or be accompanied by written evidence that the signer
are the owners of the property. Any protest may be withdrawn, in writing, by
the owners making the protest, at any time prior to the conclusion of the
public hearing.
      (2)   If there is a written protest submitted with the Clerk of the Board
by the owners of more than one-half of the area of the property to be
benefitted by the improvement, and sufficient protests are not withdrawn so as
to reduce the area represented to less than one-half of that to be benefitted,
then the proposed proceedings shall be abandoned and the Board of Supervisors
shall not, for one year from the submitting of that written protest, commence
or carry on any proceedings for the same improvement, or that portion thereof
so protested, under the provisions of this section.
(1966 Code, § 17-61) (Ord. 617, § 2(part))
§ 23.15.011 (RESERVED).
CHAPTER 23.17: IMPROVEMENTS
Section
   
23.17.001   General
   
23.17.002   Standards for improvements
   
23.17.003   Required improvements
   
23.17.004   Supplemental improvement capacity
   
23.17.005   Deferred improvement agreements
   
23.17.006   Design
   
23.17.007   Improvement plans
   
23.17.008   Improvement agreement
   
23.17.009   Improvement security
   
23.17.010   Construction and inspection
   
23.17.011   Completion of improvements
   
23.17.012   Acceptance of improvements
§ 23.17.001 GENERAL.
   (A)   The improvements set forth in this chapter shall be required for all
subdivisions unless the Planning Commission finds that due to the particular
circumstances of the subdivision, said improvements are not necessary, are not
desirable, or that alternatives are desired for the public health, safety and
welfare, or are less damaging to the environment, or makes the determination to
defer said improvements. The Planning Commission may defer frontage
improvements for the following projects:
      (1)   Minor subdivisions where the property is built-out to its maximum
density and no new traffic impacts will be generated by the subdivision.
      (2)   Minor subdivisions where no lots will be sold and no building
permits for new, single-family dwellings will be applied for. A deed
restriction prohibiting the sale of all unimproved lots and designating each
lot as "non-buildable" until such time as the required frontage improvements
are completed shall be required as a condition of approval.
      (3)   Large lots (as defined in §
23.07.001(C)) within the boundaries of any adopted specific plan and utilized
for financing and/or planning purposes only, until further subdivision of the
large lot parcels.
   In order for the Planning Commission to defer frontage improvements, it must
find that due to the particular circumstances of the subdivision, no additional
traffic or road impacts will take place. The subdivider shall pay the expense
of all required improvements.
   (B)   Large lots (as defined in §
23.07.001(C)) within the boundaries of any adopted specific plan and utilized
for financing and/or planning purposes only otherwise are exempt from the
provisions of this
Chapter 23.17.
   (C)   No final map shall be presented to the Board of Supervisors or parcel
map to the County Engineer for approval until the subdivider either completes
the required improvements, or enters into an agreement with the county to
complete the improvements at the subdivider's expense.
   (D)   Requirements for the construction of on- and off-site improvements for
subdivisions of four or fewer parcels shall be noted by a statement on the
parcel map, or on the certificate of waiver of the parcel map requirement.
(1966 Code, § 17-63) (Ord. 617, § 2(part); Ord. 829, § 1; Ord. 860, § 4 (part),
2010)
§ 23.17.002 STANDARDS FOR IMPROVEMENTS.
   All required improvements, both on- and off-site, shall be subject to the
approval of the County Engineer and shall be constructed in accordance with the
standard engineering specifications and other approved standards as provided by
this title and by ordinance or resolution of the Board of Supervisors.
(1966 Code, § 17-64) (Ord. 617, § 2(part))
§ 23.17.003 REQUIRED IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   Frontage improvements. The frontage of each lot shall be improved to
its ultimate adopted geometric section, including street structural sections,
curbs, sidewalks, driveway approaches and transitions.
   (B)   Storm drainage. Stormwater runoff from the subdivision shall be
collected and conveyed by an approved storm drain system. The storm drain
system shall be designed for ultimate development of the watershed and shall be
capable of collecting and conveying runoff generated by a 100-year flood. The
storm drain system shall provide for the protection of abutting and off-site
properties that could be adversely affected by any increase in runoff
attributed to the development. Off-site storm drain improvements may be
required to satisfy this requirement. Internal drainage facilities shall be
designed and constructed in conformance with county standards for subdivision
improvements.
   (C)   Sanitary sewers. Each unit or lot within the subdivision shall be
served by an approved sanitary sewer system or on-site sewage disposal system,
in accordance with the provisions of
Chapter 15.07 of this code.
   (D)   Water supply. Each unit or lot within the subdivision shall be served
by an approved domestic water system, in accordance with the provisions of
Chapter 15.05 of this code and state law.
   (E)   Utilities. Each unit or lot within the subdivision shall be served by
gas, electric, telephone and cablevision facilities where available.
   (F)   Underground utilities.
      (1)   All proposed utilities within the subdivision and along peripheral
streets shall be placed underground except those facilities exempted by Public
Utilities Commission regulations. Undergrounding of existing utilities shall be
required for overhead lines on the development side of peripheral streets.
Power transmission of voltage greater than 21 KV shall be exempt from this
section.
      (2)   The developer may request that the undergrounding requirement along
peripheral streets be waived by the Planning Commission. The Planning
Commission may, at its discretion, accept a fee in lieu of the undergrounding.
The amount of the fee shall be determined by the County Engineer and shall be
based upon the reasonable estimated cost of that portion of a future
undergrounding project attributable to the subdivision. The requirement for
undergrounding shall be a condition of approval of the tentative map, except as
provided below.
      (3)   Undergrounding requirements may be waived or modified by the
Planning Commission only upon finding:
         (a)   The subdivision is within an area where existing utilities have
not been underground;
         (b)   Undergrounding of utilities is impractical due to physical
constraints, or the surrounding neighborhood is absent of similar improvements;
and
         (c)   Overhead utilities will have no significant visual impact.
      (4)   If the undergrounding requirements are waived as provided in
division (F)(3) above, the in-lieu fee as established by the County Engineer
may be made a condition of approval of the tentative map.
      (5)   In-lieu fees shall be deposited in a special undergrounding account
to be used as approved by the Board of Supervisors for future undergrounding of
utilities throughout the county.
      (6)   The provisions of this division are in addition to, and not in
substitution for or limitation of, the provisions of
Chapter 15.03 of this code.
   (G)   Fencing. Each unit or lot within the subdivision that is adjacent to
property containing a public facility shall have an approved fence adequate to
prevent unauthorized access between the properties.
   (H)   Other improvements. Other improvements including, but not limited to,
grading, street lights, fire hydrants, signs, street lines and markings, street
trees and shrubs, landscaping, monuments, bicycle facilities and fences, or
fees in lieu of any of the foregoing, shall also be required as determined by
the County Engineer in accordance with this code, the general plan and county
standards and specifications.
   (I)   Off-site improvements. If as a condition of a tentative map a
subdivider is required to construct off-site improvements on land in which
neither the subdivider nor the county has sufficient title or interest to allow
construction at the time the map is recorded with the county, the county shall,
within 120 days of recording the final map, acquire by negotiation or commence
condemnation of the land in conformity with Cal. Gov’t Code § 66462.5. If the
county fails to meet the 120-day time limit, the condition for the construction
shall be waived. Prior to approval of the final map, the county may require the
subdivider to enter into an agreement to complete the off-site improvements at
the time the county acquires title or an interest in the land. The subdivider
shall pay the cost of acquiring off-site land or an interest in the land
required to construct the off-site improvements.
(1966 Code, § 17-65) (Ord. 617, § 2(part))
§ 23.17.004 SUPPLEMENTAL IMPROVEMENT CAPACITY.
   (A)   As a condition of approval of a tentative map, there may be imposed a
requirement that improvements installed by the subdivider for the benefit of
the subdivision contain supplemental size, capacity, number or length for the
benefit of property not within the subdivision and that those improvements be
dedicated to the public. However, when the supplemental size, capacity, number
or length is for the benefit of property not within the subdivision, the county
shall, subject to the provisions of Cal. Gov’t Code §§ 66485 through 66489,
enter into an agreement with the subdivider to reimburse the subdivider for
that portion of the cost of the improvements equal to the difference between
the amount it would have cost the subdivider to install the improvements to
serve the subdivision only and the actual cost of the improvements.
   (B)   The Board of Supervisors shall determine the method for payment of the
costs required by a reimbursement agreement, which method may include, but
shall not be limited to, the following:
      (1)   The collection from other persons, including public agencies, using
such improvements for the benefit of real property not within the subdivision,
a reasonable charge for the use;
      (2)   The contribution to the subdivider of that part of the cost of the
improvements that is attributable to the benefit of real property outside the
subdivision and the levy of a charge upon the real property benefitted to
reimburse the county for the costs, together with interest thereon, if any,
paid to the subdivider; and
      (3)   The establishment and maintenance of local benefit districts for
the levy and collection of the charge or costs from the property benefitted.
   (C)   No charge, area of benefit or local benefit district shall be
established unless and until a public hearing is noticed and held thereon by
the Board of Supervisors in accordance with the provisions of §
23.15.010 and the Board of Supervisors finds that the charge, area of benefit
or local benefit district is reasonably related to the cost of the supplemental
improvements and the actual ultimate beneficiaries thereof.
   (D)   In addition to the notice required by §
23.15.010, written notice of the hearing shall be given to those who own
property within the proposed area of benefit as shown on the latest equalized
assessment roll, and the potential users of the supplemental improvements
insofar as they can be ascertained at the time. A copy of the notices shall be
mailed to the Clerk of the Board at least ten days prior to the date
established for the hearing.
(1966 Code, § 17-66) (Ord. 617, § 2(part))
§ 23.17.005 DEFERRED IMPROVEMENT AGREEMENTS.
   (A)   Minor subdivisions or parcel maps.
      (1)   With respect to minor subdivisions, or parcel maps, the frontage
improvements required by this chapter may be deferred when deemed necessary by
the County Engineer. When the improvements are deferred, the subdivider and/or
owner of the real property shall enter into an agreement with the county, in a
form acceptable to the County Engineer and County Counsel, for the installation
of all frontage improvements at a time in the future as specified by the
county. The County Engineer shall execute the agreement on behalf of the
county. The agreement shall provide the following:
         (a)   That construction of improvements shall be completed within one
year of the date of commencement of the work; the date shall be specified by
the county;
         (b)   That in the event of a default by the subdivider and/or owners,
the county is authorized to cause construction to be done and to charge the
entire cost and expense thereof to the subdivider and/or owners, including
interest from the date of notice of such cost and expense until paid;
         (c)   That the agreement shall be recorded with the County Recorder at
the expense of the subdivider and/or owners and shall constitute notice to all
successors and assigns of title to the real property of the obligations set
forth therein, and shall also constitute a lien in such amount necessary to
fully reimburse the county, including interest as provided above, subject to
foreclosure in the event of a default in payment;
         (d)   That in the event of litigation occasioned by any default of the
subdivider and/or owners, the subdivider and/or owners agree to pay all costs
involved, including reasonable attorney’s fees, and that the same shall become
a part of the lien against the real property;
         (e)   That the terms “subdivider” and “owner” shall include,
respectively, not only the subdivider and the present owner of the real
property, but also heirs, successors, executors, administrators and assigns
thereof, it being the intent of the parties that the obligations undertaken
shall run with the real property and constitute a lien against it;
         (f)   Any other improvement security as required by §
23.17.009;
         (g)   Cash deposit, if determined necessary by the County Engineer;
and
         (h)   Any other provisions required by the county as reasonably
necessary to effectuate the purposes and provisions of the Subdivision Map Act
and this code.
      (2)   The construction of deferred improvements shall conform to the
provisions of this title and all applicable chapters of this code in effect at
the time of construction.
   (B)   Remainders. Where a remainder is made part of a final or parcel map,
the subdivider shall enter into an agreement with the county to construct
improvements within the remainder at some future date and prior to the issuance
of a permit or other grant of approval for development of the remainder. The
improvements shall be at the subdivider’s expense. The county may require
fulfillment of the construction requirements within a reasonable time following
approval of the final or parcel map and prior to the issuance of a permit or
other grant approval for the development of the remainder, upon a finding that
fulfillment of the construction requirements is necessary for reasons of:
      (1)   The public health safety; or
      (2)   The required construction is a necessary prerequisite to the
orderly development of the surrounding area.
(1966 Code, § 17-67) (Ord. 617, § 2(part))
§ 23.17.006 DESIGN.
   (A)   General. The design and layout of all required improvements, both on-
and off-site, private and public, shall conform to generally accepted
engineering standards, standard engineering specifications, the Subdivision Map
Act, applicable provisions of this code, adopted county standards, general plan
and any applicable specific plan.
   (B)   Energy conservation.
      (1)   The design of a subdivision for which a tentative map is required
shall provide, to the extent feasible, for future passive or natural heating or
cooling opportunities in the subdivision.
      (2)   Examples of passive or natural heating opportunities in subdivision
design include design of lot size and configuration to permit orientation of a
structure in an east-west alignment for southern exposure. Examples of passive
or natural cooling opportunities in subdivision design include design of lot
size and configuration to permit orientation of a structure to take advantage
of shade or prevailing breezes.
      (3)   In providing for future passive or natural heating or cooling
opportunities in the design of a subdivision, consideration shall be given to
local climate, contour, configuration of the parcel to be divided and other
design and improvement requirements. The provisions shall not result in
reducing allowable densities, or the percentage of a lot which may be occupied
by a building or structure under applicable planning and zoning in effect at
the time the tentative map is filed.
      (4)   For the purpose of this division, FEASIBLE means capable of being
accomplished in a successful manner within a reasonable period of time, taking
into account economic, environmental, social and technological factors.
      (5)   This division shall not apply to condominium projects which
consists of the subdivision of airspace in an existing building when no new
structures are added.
   (C)   Cable television service.
      (1)   The design of a subdivision for which a tentative map is required
shall provide one or more appropriate cable television systems an opportunity
to construct, install and maintain, on land identified on the map as dedicated
or to be dedicated to public utility use, any equipment necessary to extend
cable television services to each residential parcel in the subdivision.
      (2)   For the purpose of this division, APPROPRIATE CABLE TELEVISION
SYSTEMS means those franchised or licensed to serve the geographical area in
which the subdivision is located.
      (3)   This division shall not apply to the conversion of existing
dwelling units to condominiums, community apartments or stock cooperatives.
   (D)   Access. Except as otherwise provided within any adopted specific plan,
all lots or parcels created pursuant to this title shall have access to a
public street improved to the standards set forth in this chapter. Except as
otherwise provided within any adopted specific plan, private streets shall not
be permitted unless the Planning Commission finds that the most logical
development of the land requires that the lots or parcels be created with
access to private streets. The subdivider shall submit a development plan
showing the alignment, width, grade and material specifications of any proposed
private street, the topography and means of access to each lot, and the
drainage, sewer and water service and fire protection for the lots served by
the private street. The private street shall be constructed in accordance with
standard engineering specifications and any other applicable plans and
specifications of the county as approved by the County Engineer, or as
otherwise provided for in an adopted specific plan. Construction of the private
street shall be completed prior to the issuance of a "certificate of occupancy"
or final inspection on any of the lots. The subdivider shall be required to
provide a method for the maintenance of the private streets, which method shall
be subject to the prior approval of the County Engineer and County Counsel.
(1966 Code, § 17-68) (Ord. 617, § 2(part); Ord. 860, § 4 (part), 2010)
§ 23.17.007 IMPROVEMENT PLANS.
   (A)   General. Improvement plans shall be prepared by a registered civil
engineer in a form approved by the County Engineer and in conformity with the
provisions of this section and any additional requirements as established by
the County Engineer.
   (B)   Form. Improvement plans shall be in the form as required in the
improvement standards adopted by this title and by ordinance or resolution of
the Board of Supervisors.
   (C)   Contents. Improvement plans shall show complete plans, profiles and
details for all required improvements to be constructed, both public and
private, including common areas. Reference may be made to county or state
standard plans in lieu of duplicating the drawings.
   (D)   Supplementary plans and calculations. Hydrology, hydraulic plans and
calculations, bond or other security estimates and any structural calculations
as may be required, shall be submitted with the improvement plans to the County
Engineer. All supplementary plans and calculations shall be legible, systematic
and signed and dated by a registered civil engineer and in a form approved by
the County Engineer.
   (E)   Review by the County Engineer. The subdivider shall submit the
improvement plans and all supplementary data to the County Engineer for review.
Upon completion of the review, one set of the improvement plans, with any
required revisions indicated, will be returned to the subdivider.
   (F)   Approval by the County Engineer.
      (1)   After completing all required revisions, the subdivider shall
transmit the originals of the improvement plans to the County Engineer for
signature. Upon finding that all required revisions have been made and that the
plans conform to all applicable county ordinances and plans, design
requirements and conditions of approval of the tentative map, the County
Engineer shall sign and date the plans. The applicant’s engineer shall make a
mylar reproducible set of the plans for use by the county. The originals will
be returned to the subdivider. Upon approval by the County Engineer, the plans
shall become a public record.
      (2)   Approval of the improvement plans shall not be construed as
approval of the gas, electric, telephone and cable television service
construction plans.
      (3)   Approval by the County Engineer shall, in no way, relieve the
subdivider or the subdivider’s engineer from responsibility for the design of
the improvements and for any deficiencies resulting from the design thereof.
   (G)   Revision to approved plans.
      (1)   By subdivider. Requests by the subdivider for revisions to the
approved plans shall be submitted in writing to the County Engineer and shall
be accompanied by revised drawings showing the proposed revisions. If the
revisions are acceptable to the County Engineer and consistent with the
tentative map, the originals shall be submitted to the County Engineer’s office
for initialing. The originals shall be returned to the subdivider and the
revised drawings shall be immediately transmitted to the County Engineer.
Construction of any proposed revisions will not be permitted to commence until
revised drawings have been received and approved by the County Engineer.
      (2)   By County Engineer.
         (a)   When revisions are deemed necessary by the County Engineer to
protect the public health or safety, or as field conditions may require, a
request in writing shall be made to the subdivider’s engineer. The subdivider
shall revise the plans and transmit the originals to the County Engineer for
initialing within the time specified by the County Engineer. Upon receipt of
the initialized originals, the subdivider shall immediately transmit revised
drawings to the County Engineer. Construction of all or any portion of the
improvements may be stopped by the County Engineer until revised drawings have
been submitted.
         (b)   The subdivider may appeal revisions required by the County
Engineer to the Board of Supervisors by submitting an appeal in writing with
the Clerk of the Board within ten days following receipt of the request to
revise the plans.
      (3)   Plan checking and inspection costs for revisions. Costs incurred by
the county for the checking of plans or calculations or inspection as a result
of revisions to the approved plans shall be borne by the subdivider at actual
cost. A deposit, when required, shall be submitted with the revised plans and
applied toward the actual costs.
(1966 Code, § 17-69) (Ord. 617, § 2(part))
§ 23.17.008 IMPROVEMENT AGREEMENT.
   (A)   If, at the time of approval of the final map by the Board of
Supervisors, any public improvements required pursuant to this chapter have not
been completed and accepted in accordance with this chapter, the subdivider
shall be required, as a condition precedent to the approval of the final map,
to enter into an agreement with the county to complete the improvements at the
subdivider’s expense. The improvement agreement shall be prepared by the County
Engineer in the format approved by the County Counsel.
   (B)   The agreement shall provide for the following:
      (1)   Construction of all improvements required pursuant to §
23.17.003, including any required off-site improvements, according to the
approved plans and specifications on file with the County Engineer;
      (2)   Completion of improvements within the time specified by §
23.17.011;
      (3)   Right of the county to modify plans and specifications and to
require the subdivider to pay for modifications;
      (4)   Warranty by the subdivider that construction will not adversely
affect any portion of adjacent properties;
      (5)   County’s right to inspect and payment of inspection fees in
accordance with the Board of Supervisors’ resolution or resolutions
establishing such fees;
      (6)   Payment of in-lieu fees for undergrounding of utilities on
peripheral streets;
      (7)   Improvement security as required by §
23.17.009;
      (8)   Maintenance and repair of any defects or failures and their causes;
      (9)   Warranty of improvements constructed;
      (10)   Release and indemnification of the county from all liability
incurred in connection with the development and payment of all reasonable
attorneys’ fees that the county may incur because of any legal action or other
proceeding arising from the development;
      (11)   Any other deposits, reimbursements, fees or conditions as required
by County Engineer; and
      (12)   Any other provisions required by the county as reasonably
necessary to effectuate the purposes and provisions of the Subdivision Map Act
and this code.
(1966 Code, § 17-70) (Ord. 617, § 2(part))
§ 23.17.009 IMPROVEMENT SECURITY.
   (A)   General.
      (1)   Any improvement agreement, contract or act required or authorized
by the Subdivision Map Act or this title, for which security is required, shall
be secured in accordance with Cal. Gov’t Code §§ 66499 et seq. and as provided
below.
      (2)   No final or parcel map shall be signed by the County Engineer or
recorded until all improvement securities required by this section have been
received and approved.
   (B)   Form of security. The form of security shall be one of the following
or a combination of the following subject to the approval of the county:
      (1)   A deposit, either with the county or a responsible escrow agent,
bank acting as an escrow agent or trust company, at the option of the county,
of money;
      (2)   A bond by one or more duly authorized corporate sureties in the
form required by Cal. Gov’t Code §§ 66499.1 and 66499.2;
      (3)   An instrument of credit from any agency of the state, federal or
local government when any agency of the state, federal or local government
provides at least 20% of the financing for the portion of the act or agreement
requiring security or an instrument of credit or letter of credit from one or
more financial institutions subject to regulation by the state or federal
government and pledging that the funds necessary to carry out the act or
agreement are on deposit and guaranteed for payment; or
      (4)   If the security is material and labor security, then the security
alternatively may consist of a security interest in real property represented
by a deed of trust on the subdivision property, second in position only to the
subdivision improvement construction loan, and securing the written obligation
of the subdivider to pay claims of laborers and material persons in an amount
provided for in division (C)(2) below, and providing the same obligation for
payment as appears in the bond required by Cal. Gov’t Code § 66499.2; provided,
however, that the second position trust deed obligation shall be subject to an
obligation to subordinate the trust deed to additional advances as determined
by an institutional lender to be required in order to complete the subdivision
improvements upon which the recording of the final map is conditioned. In the
exercise of the discretion of the County Engineer, the county may require
substitute security at any time the county determines that the security
interest in real property is inadequate to reasonably insure repayment of the
obligations secured.
      (5)   In the event developer is a non-profit corporation as described in
Cal. Gov’t Code § 66499.3(c), security may be in any form required by the
Subdivision Map Act.
   (C)   Amount of security. Security to guarantee performance shall be in the
following amounts.
      (1)   Performance security. One hundred percent of the total estimated
construction cost to guarantee the construction or installation of all
improvements.
      (2)   Material and labor security. An additional amount of 50% of the
total estimated construction cost to guarantee payment to subdivider’s
contractor, subcontractors and to persons furnishing labor, materials or
equipment for the construction or installation of improvements, in the case of
security provided in the forms specified in divisions (B)(1), (2) or (3) above.
In the case of security provided in the form specified in division (B)(4)
above, the amount of the security shall be an amount equal to 100% of the total
estimated construction cost.
      (3)   Monument security. An amount equal to 100% of the County Engineer’s
estimate of the cost of monuments.
      (4)   Warranty security. An amount as required by the County Engineer but
in no event less than 10% of the estimated cost of construction of the
improvements to guarantee the improvements against any defective work or labor
done or defective materials used in the construction or installation of the
improvements throughout the warranty period which shall be the period of one
year following completion and acceptance of the improvements.
      (5)   Costs.
         (a)   As part of the obligation guaranteed by the security and in
addition to the full amount of the security, there shall be included costs and
reasonable expenses and fees, including reasonable attorneys’ fees, incurred by
the county in enforcing the obligations secured.
         (b)   The estimate of construction costs shall be as approved by the
County Engineer and shall provide for:
            1.   Ten percent of the total estimated construction cost for
contingencies; and
            2.   All utility installation costs or a certification acceptable
to the County Engineer from the utility company that adequate security has been
deposited to ensure installation.
      (6)   In the event developer is a non-profit corporation as described in
Cal. Gov’t Code § 66499.3(c), security shall be in the amount required by the
Subdivision Map Act, § 66499.3(c).
   (D)   Release of security.
      (1)   Performance security. The performance security shall be released
only upon final completion and acceptance of the improvements by the county and
when an approved warranty security has been submitted with the County Engineer.
If a warranty security is not submitted, performance security shall be released
12 months after the acceptance of improvements and correction of all warranty
deficiencies. The County Engineer may authorize, in writing, the release of a
portion of the performance security in conjunction with the acceptance of the
satisfactory completion of a part of the improvements as the work progresses
upon application by the subdivider, but in no case shall the security be
reduced to less than 10% of the total improvement security given for faithful
performance. The amount of reduction of the security shall be determined by the
County Engineer; however, in no event shall the County Engineer authorize a
release of the improvement security which would reduce security to an amount
below that required to guarantee the completion of the improvements and any
other obligation imposed by the Subdivision Map Act, this code or the
improvement agreement.
      (2)   Material and labor security.
         (a)   1.   Security securing the payment to the contractor, his or her
subcontractors and to persons furnishing labor, materials or equipment shall,
after passage of the time within which claims of lien are required to be
recorded pursuant to Cal. Civil Code Article 3 (commencing with § 3114) of
Chapter 2 of Title 15 of Part 4 of Division 3 and after acceptance of the work,
be reduced to an amount equal to the total claimed by all claimants for whom
claims of lien have been recorded and notice thereof given in writing to the
legislative body, and if no such claims have been recorded, the security shall
be released in full.
            2.   The release shall not apply to any required guarantee and
warranty period required by Cal. Gov’t Code § 66499.9 for the guarantee or
warranty nor to the amount of the security deemed necessary by the local agency
for the guarantee and warranty period nor to costs and reasonable expenses and
fees, including reasonable attorneys’ fees.
            3.   The County Engineer shall authorize release or reduction of
the security in accordance with the conditions hereinabove set forth.
         (b)   In the event a subdivider gives county security for materials
and labor in the form of that specified in division (B)(4) above, and the
subdivider for whatever reason desires to change the form of security, the
county shall release such security only upon the filing by subdivider of an
authorized security in a form other than that specified in division (B)(4) and
in an appropriate amount, as specified in this division (C)(2).
         (c)   In the event a subdivider gives county security for materials
and labor in the form of that specified in division (B)(4) above, and the
subdivider or a successor in the interest desires to sell one or more lots in
the subdivision, the county shall release the security interest on the lots to
be sold, upon the furnishing of security in the form specified in divisions (B)
(1), (2) or (3), or any combination thereof, in an amount, for each lot
proposed to be released, equal to 50% for materials and labor security in a sum
determined by dividing the total estimated cost of construction remaining by
the total number of lots shown on the recorded final subdivision map as to
which there has been no prior security release.
      (3)   Warranty security. The warranty security shall be released upon
satisfactory completion of the warranty period, provided that all deficiencies
appearing on the warranty deficiency list for the subdivision have been
corrected.
      (4)   Monument security. Monument security shall be released upon receipt
of notices per Cal. Gov’t Code § 66497.
(1966 Code, § 17-71) (Ord. 617, § 2(part); Ord. 682, § 1)
§ 23.17.010 CONSTRUCTION AND INSPECTION.
   (A)   The construction methods and materials for all improvements shall
conform to the standard engineering specifications and all other standard plans
and specifications of the county.
   (B)   Construction shall not commence until all required improvement plans
have been approved by the County Engineer and an encroachment permit has been
obtained. All improvements are subject to inspection by the County Engineer or
authorized personnel in accordance with the county’s approved specifications.
(1966 Code, § 17-72) (Ord. 617, § 2(part))
§ 23.17.011 COMPLETION OF IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   Major subdivisions.
      (1)   The improvements for subdivisions shall be completed by the
subdivider within 12 months, or such later time as approved by the County
Engineer, not to exceed 36 months, from the recording of the final map, unless
an additional extension is granted by the Board of Supervisors.
      (2)   Should the subdivider fail to complete the improvements within the
specified time, the county may, by resolution of the Board of Supervisors and
at its option, cause any or all uncompleted improvements to be completed and
the parties executing the security or securities shall be firmly bound for the
payment of all necessary costs.
   (B)   Minor subdivisions. The completion of improvements for minor
subdivisions recorded by parcel map shall not be required until a permit or
other grant of approval for development of any parcel within the subdivision is
issued. Completion of the improvements may be required prior to the time of
issuance of a permit or other developmental approval when the completion of the
improvements is found by the Planning Commission to be necessary for public
health and safety or for the orderly development of the surrounding area.
   (C)   Extensions.
      (1)   The completion date may be extended by the County Engineer for
subdivisions, major or minor, upon written request by the subdivider and the
submittal of adequate evidence to justify the extension. The request shall be
made not less than 30 days prior to expiration of the subdivision improvement
agreement.
      (2)   The subdivider shall enter into an improvement agreement extension
with the county. The agreement shall be prepared by the County Engineer,
approved as to form by the County Counsel, executed by the subdivider and
surety and transmitted to the County Engineer for consideration. If approved,
the County Engineer shall execute the agreement on behalf of the county.
      (3)   In consideration of an improvement agreement extension, the
following may be required:
         (a)   Revised improvement plans to provide for current design and
construction standards when required by the County Engineer;
         (b)   Revised improvement construction estimates to reflect current
improvement costs as approved by the County Engineer;
         (c)   Increased improvement securities in accordance with revised
construction estimates; and
         (d)   Increased inspection fees reflecting current construction costs.
      (4)   The County Engineer may impose additional requirements as the
County Engineer deems necessary as a condition to approving any time extension
for the completion of subdivision improvements.
   (D)   As-built plans. Upon completion of the improvements, the subdivider
shall submit to the County Engineer a reproducible set of as-built improvement
plans prepared by the subdivider’s engineer.
(1966 Code, § 17-73) (Ord. 617, § 2(part))
§ 23.17.012 ACCEPTANCE OF IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   General.
      (1)   With respect to all subdivisions, when all improvement deficiencies
have been corrected and as-built improvement plans submitted, the completed
subdivision improvements shall be considered by the County Engineer for
acceptance.
      (2)   Acceptance of the improvements shall imply only that the
improvements have been completed satisfactorily and that public improvements
have been accepted for public use.
   (B)   Acceptance. If the subdivision improvements have been accepted by the
County Engineer and public improvements have been dedicated on the final or
parcel map, the County Engineer shall file an acceptance of public improvements
with the County Recorder.
   (C)   Acceptance of a portion of the improvements.
      (1)   When requested by the subdivider in writing, the County Engineer
may consider acceptance of a portion of the improvements. The improvements will
be accepted by the County Engineer only if the County Engineer finds that it is
in the public interest to do so and such improvements are for the use of the
general public.
      (2)   Acceptance of a portion of the improvements shall not relieve the
subdivider from any other requirements imposed by this chapter.
(1966 Code, § 17-74) (Ord. 617, § 2(part))
CHAPTER 23.19: REVERSIONS TO ACREAGE
Section
   
23.19.001   General
   
23.19.002   Initiation of proceedings
   
23.19.003   Contents of petition
   
23.19.004   Submittal of petition to the County Engineer
   
23.19.005   Board of Supervisors action
   
23.19.006   Recording with the County Recorder
§ 23.19.001 GENERAL.
   (A)   Subdivided real property may be reverted to acreage pursuant to the
provisions of the Subdivision Map Act and this chapter. This chapter shall
apply to final and parcel maps.
   (B)   Subdivided lands may also be merged and resubdivided without reverting
to acreage pursuant to § 66499.20-1/2 of the Subdivision Map Act and this
title.
(1966 Code, § 17-75) (Ord. 617, § 2(part))
§ 23.19.002 INITIATION OF PROCEEDINGS.
   (A)   By owners. Proceedings to revert subdivided lands to acreage may be
initiated by petition of all of the owners of record of the real property
within the subdivision. The petition shall be in a form prescribed by the
Planning Director and County Engineer and shall contain the information
required by §
23.19.003 and any additional information as required by the Planning Director
and County Engineer.
   (B)   By Board of Supervisors. The Board of Supervisors, at the request of
any person or on its own motion may, by resolution, initiate proceedings to
revert subdivided real property to acreage. The Board of Supervisors shall
direct the Planning Department to obtain the necessary information to initiate
and conduct the proceedings.
(1966 Code, § 17-76) (Ord. 617, § 2(part))
§ 23.19.003 CONTENTS OF PETITION.
   The petition shall contain, but not be limited to, the following:
   (A)   Evidence of title to the real property within the subdivision;
   (B)   Evidence of the consent of all of the owners of an interest in the
real property to the reversion;
   (C)   Evidence that none of the improvements required to be made have been
made within two years from the date the final or parcel map was recorded for
record, or within the time allowed by agreement for completion of the
improvements, whichever is later;
   (D)   Evidence that no lots shown on the final or parcel map have been sold
within five years from the date the map was recorded for record;
   (E)   A description of all dedications or offers of dedication to be vacated
or abandoned by the reversion;
   (F)   A final or parcel map in the form, and with the contents, prescribed
by §§
23.09.004 and
23.09.005 or
23.11.004, as the case may be, which delineates dedications or offers of
dedication which will not be vacated and dedications or offers of dedication
required as a condition to reversion. Final or parcel maps shall be
conspicuously designated with the title “The Purpose of this Map is a Reversion
to Acreage”;
   (G)   Fees and/or deposits in accordance with §
23.01.007; and
   (H)   Sufficient data to enable the legislative body to make all of the
determinations and findings required under this chapter.
(1966 Code, § 17-77) (Ord. 617, § 2(part))
§ 23.19.004 SUBMITTAL OF PETITION TO THE COUNTY ENGINEER.
   (A)   The final or parcel map for the reversion, together with all other
data as required by this chapter, shall be submitted to the County Engineer for
review.
   (B)   Upon finding that the petition meets all the requirements of the
Subdivision Map Act and this title, the County Engineer shall submit the final
or parcel map, together with a report setting forth their recommendations for
approval, conditional approval or disapproval of the reversion to acreage to
the Board of Supervisors for its consideration.
(1966 Code, § 17-78) (Ord. 617, § 2(part))
§ 23.19.005 BOARD OF SUPERVISORS ACTION.
   (A)   Public hearing. A public hearing shall be held by the Board of
Supervisors on all proposed reversions to acreage. Notice of the public hearing
shall be given the Planning Director as provided in §
23.07.006. The Planning Director may give such other notice as he or she deems
necessary or advisable.
   (B)   Approval. The Board of Supervisors may approve a reversion to acreage
only if it finds and records by resolution that:
      (1)   Dedications or offers of dedication to be vacated or abandoned by
the reversion to acreage are necessary for present or prospective public
purposes; and
      (2)   Either:
         (a)   All owners of an interest in the real property within the
subdivision have consented to reversion;
         (b)   None of the improvements required to be made have been made
within two years from the date the final or parcel map was recorded, or within
the time allowed by agreement for completion of the improvements, whichever is
later; or
         (c)   No lots shown on the final or parcel map have been sold within
five years from the date the map was recorded.
   (C)   Conditions of approval. The Board of Supervisors shall require as
conditions of the reversion:
      (1)   Dedications or offers of dedication of streets, public rights-of-
way or easements;
      (2)   Retention of all previously paid fees if necessary to accomplish
any of the purposes or provisions of the Subdivision Map Act or this title;
      (3)   Retention of any portion of required improvement security or
deposits if necessary to accomplish the purposes or provisions of the
Subdivision Map Act or this title; and
      (4)   Such other conditions of reversion as are necessary to accomplish
the purposes or provisions of the Subdivision Map Act or this title.
(1966 Code, § 17-79) (Ord. 617, § 2(part))
§ 23.19.006 RECORDING WITH THE COUNTY RECORDER.
   Upon approval of the reversion to acreage, the Clerk of the Board shall
transmit the final or parcel map, together with the Board of Supervisors’
resolution approving the reversion, to the County Recorder for recordation.
Reversion shall be effective upon the final or parcel map being recorded by the
County Recorder. Upon filing, all dedications and offers of dedication not
shown on the final or parcel map for reversion shall be of no further force and
effect.
(1966 Code, § 17-80) (Ord. 617, § 2(part))
CHAPTER 23.21: PARCEL MERGERS AND UNMERGERS (RESERVED)
CHAPTER 23.23: ENFORCEMENT
Section
   
23.23.001   Prohibition
   
23.23.002   Remedies
   
23.23.003   Certificate of compliance
   
23.23.004   Appeal
   
23.23.005   Violation as a misdemeanor
   
23.23.006   Violation of title, code enforcement ordinance
§ 23.23.001 PROHIBITION.
   (A)   No person shall sell, lease or finance any parcel or parcels of real
property or commence construction of any building for sale, lease or financing
thereon, except for model homes, or allow occupancy thereof, for which a parcel
or final map is required by the Subdivision Map Act and this title, until the
parcel or final map, in full compliance with the provisions of the Subdivision
Map Act and this title, has been recorded by the County Recorder.
   (B)   Conveyances of any part of a division of real property for which a
final or parcel map is required by the Subdivision Map Act or this title shall
not be made by parcel or block number, initial or other designation, unless and
until the final or parcel map has been recorded by the County Recorder.
   (C)   This section does not apply to any parcel or parcels of a subdivision
offered for sale or lease, contracted for sale or lease, or sold or leased in
compliance with or exempt from any law, including this title, regulating the
design and improvement of subdivisions in effect at the time the subdivision
was established.
   (D)   Nothing contained in division (A) above shall be deemed to prohibit an
offer or contract to sell, lease or finance real property or to construct
improvements thereon where the sale, lease or financing, or the commencement of
construction, is expressly conditioned upon the approval and recording of a
final or parcel map, as required by the Subdivision Map Act or this title.
(1966 Code, § 17-90) (Ord. 617, § 2(part))
§ 23.23.002 REMEDIES.
   (A)   Voiding of conveyance. Any deed of conveyance, sale or contract to
sell real property which has been divided, or which has resulted from a
division, in violation of the provisions of the Subdivision Map Act or this
title, is voidable at the sole option of the grantee, buyer or person
contracting to purchase, his or her heirs, personal representative, or trustee
in insolvency or bankruptcy within one year after the date of discovery of the
violation. The deed of conveyance, sale or contract to sell is binding upon any
successor in interest of the grantee, buyer or person contracting to purchase,
other than those above enumerated, and upon the grantor, vendor or person
contracting to sell, or his or her assignee, heir or devisee.
   (B)   Action for damages. Any grantee, or his or her successor in interest,
of real property which has been divided, or which has resulted from a division,
in violation of the provisions of the Subdivision Map Act or this title may,
within one year after the date of discovery of the violation, bring an action
in the Superior Court to recover any damages suffered by reason of the division
of property. The action may be brought against the person who so divided the
property and against any successors in interest who have actual or constructive
knowledge of such division of property.
   (C)   Withholding of permits and approvals.
      (1)   The county shall not issue a permit or grant any approval necessary
to develop any real property which has been divided, or which has resulted from
a division, in violation of the provisions of the Subdivision Map Act or this
title if it finds that development of the real property is contrary to the
public health or safety. The authority to deny the permit or approval shall
apply whether the applicant therefor was the owner of record at the time of the
violation or whether the applicant therefor is either the current owner of
record or a vendee thereof pursuant to a contract of sale with, or without,
actual or constructive knowledge of the violation at the time of the
acquisition of his or her interest in the real property.
      (2)   If the county issues a permit or grants approval for the
development of any such real property, the county may impose those conditions
which would have been applicable to the division of the property at the time
the applicant acquired his or her interest in the real property. If the
applicant was the owner of record at the time of the initial violation, the
county may impose conditions applicable to a current division of the property.
If a conditional certificate of compliance has been recorded in accordance with
the provisions of §
23.23.003, only those conditions stipulated in the certificate shall be
applicable.
   (D)   Notice of violation.
      (1)   If the Planning Department has knowledge that real property has
been divided in violation of the provisions of the Subdivision Map Act or this
title, it shall cause to be mailed, by certified mail, a notice of intention to
record a notice of violation to the then-current owner of record. The notice
shall describe the property in detail, name the owners thereof, and shall
specify the date, time and place for a hearing before the Planning Commission
at which the owner may present evidence why the notice of violation should not
be recorded. The notice shall describe the violation and shall also contain an
explanation as to why the subject parcel is not lawful under Cal. Gov’t Code §
66412.6(a) or (b).
      (2)   The hearing shall be held no sooner than 30 days and no later than
60 days from the date of mailing of the notice of intention to record a notice
of violation. If, within 15 days of receipt of the notice, the owner fails to
file with the Planning Department a written objection to recording the notice
of violation, the Planning Department shall file the notice of violation for
record with the County Recorder. If, after the owner has presented evidence,
the Planning Commission determines that there has been no violation, the
Planning Department shall mail a clearance letter to the then-current owner of
record. If, however, after the owner has presented evidence, the Planning
Commission determines that the property has been illegally divided, the
Planning Department shall record the notice of violation for record with the
County Recorder.
      (3)   The notice of violation, when recorded, shall be deemed to be
constructive notice of the violation to all successors in interest in the
property.
   (E)   Remedies not exclusive. This section does not bar any legal, equitable
or summary remedy to which the county or other public agency, or any person,
firm or corporation may otherwise be entitled, and the county or other public
agency, or the person, firm or corporation may file a suit in the superior
court to restrain or enjoin any attempted or proposed subdivision or sale,
lease or financing in violation of the Subdivision Map Act or this title.
(1966 Code, § 17-91) (Ord. 617, § 2(part))
§ 23.23.003 CERTIFICATE OF COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   Any person owning real property or a vendee of the person pursuant to
a contract of sale may request the Planning Commission determine whether the
real property complies with the provisions of the Subdivision Map Act and this
title.
   (B)   If the Planning Commission determines that the real property complies
with the provisions of the Subdivision Map Act and this title, the Planning
Department shall file a certificate of compliance for record with the County
Recorder. The certificate of compliance shall identify the real property and
shall state that the division thereof complies with the provisions of the
Subdivision Map Act and this title.
   (C)   (1)   If the Planning Commission determines that the real property
does not comply with the provisions of the Subdivision Map Act or this title,
the Planning Commission may, as a condition of granting a certificate of
compliance, impose conditions in accordance with Cal. Gov’t Code § 66499.35(b).
Upon making such a determination and establishing such conditions, the Planning
Department shall file a conditional certificate of compliance for record with
the County Recorder. The certificate shall serve as notice to the property
owner or vendee who has applied for the certificate, a grantee of the property
owner or any subsequent transferee or assignee of the property that the
fulfillment and implement of the conditions shall be required prior to
subsequent issuance of a permit or other grant of approval for development of
the property.
      (2)   Compliance with such conditions shall not be required until such
time as a permit or other grant of approval for development of the property is
issued by the county.
   (D)   A certificate of compliance shall be issued for any real property
which has been approved for development pursuant to Cal. Gov’t Code § 66499.34
and §
23.23.003 of this chapter.
   (E)   A recorded final parcel map shall constitute a certificate of
compliance with respect to the parcels of real property described therein.
   (F)   Subject to the provisions of Cal. Gov’t Code § 66499.35(e), an
official map prepared pursuant to Cal. Gov’t Code § 66499.52(b) shall
constitute a certificate of compliance with respect to the parcels of real
property described therein.
   (G)   A fee and/or deposit shall be charged to the applicant for making the
determination and processing the certificate of compliance in accordance with §
23.01.007 of this title.
(1966 Code, § 17-92) (Ord. 617, § 2(part))
§ 23.23.004 APPEAL.
   Appeals of any Planning Commission action pursuant to this chapter may be
made to the Board of Supervisors in accordance with the provisions of §
23.07.008 of this title.
(1966 Code, § 17-93) (Ord. 617, § 2(part))
§ 23.23.005 VIOLATION AS A MISDEMEANOR.
   (A)   Any person violating any of the provisions or failing to comply with
any of the regulatory requirements of this title shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punishable by imprisonment
in the county jail not exceeding six months, or by fine not exceeding $1,000,
or by both the fine and imprisonment.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this title, each person shall be
guilty of a separate offense for each and every day during any portion of which
any violation of any provision of this title is committed, continued or
permitted by the person and shall be punishable accordingly.
(1966 Code, § 17-94) (Ord. 617, § 2(part))
§ 23.23.006 VIOLATION OF TITLE, CODE ENFORCEMENT ORDINANCE.
   Any violation of this title is unlawful and declared a public nuisance.
Unless clearly inconsistent with the Subdivision Map Act or other provisions of
this title, a violation of this title shall be abated, eliminated and enjoined
as provided in
Chapter 1.03 of this code.
(1966 Code, § 17-95) (Ord. 617, § 2(part))
CHAPTER 23.25: DESIGN REQUIREMENTS
Section
   
23.25.001   Policy regarding subdivisions
   
23.25.002   Subdivisions; minimum parcel size less than five acres
   
23.25.003   Subdivisions; minimum parcel size five acres or greater
   
23.25.004   Subdivisions, planned unit development
   
23.25.005   Subdivisions and parks, mobile home or travel trailer
   
23.25.006   Open space easements
   
23.25.007   Maintenance of subdivision facilities
   
23.25.008   General standards
   
23.25.009   Streets
   
23.25.010   Blocks
   
23.25.011   Lots
   
23.25.012   Recreational facilities
   
23.25.013   Grading and erosion control
§ 23.25.001 POLICY REGARDING SUBDIVISIONS.
   (A)   It is the policy of the Board of Supervisors to discourage urban-
density subdivisions in unincorporated county areas and encourage annexation of
the developments to incorporated cities. Where permitted without the
annexation, arrangements must be made for urban services, including sewer and
water connections, street lighting and any other services that require ongoing
maintenance. No septic tanks will be permitted in these subdivisions.
Arrangements for these services may be through a homeowner's association,
either existing or formed, or through another type of legal entity as may be
approved by the Board of Supervisors.
   (B)   A homeowners' association, or other entity as may be approved by the
county, may contract with existing agencies to provide all or any portion of
the services, or may itself provide all or any portion of the services. Cost of
capital improvements, connection fees and other charges and costs necessary to
initiate operation of any services shall be borne by the subdivider.
(1966 Code, §17A-1) (Ord. 855, § 3, 2010)
§ 23.25.002 SUBDIVISIONS; MINIMUM PARCEL SIZE LESS THAN FIVE ACRES.
   (A)   Minimum lot size: as provided in the San Benito County Zoning
Ordinance or amendments thereto.
   (B)   Minimum average lot width: ratio of the width of the lot to its depth
shall not exceed one to three.
   (C)   Septic tanks will only be permitted where percolation tests, performed
by a registered engineer or public agency, show soil conditions: determined to
be suitable for septic tanks by the Health Department.
   (D)   Based on the magnitude of the expected development of a proposed
subdivision, the Board of Supervisors may require that the subdivider provide
urban services to the extent determined desirable by the Board. Where size or
intensity of development is such that soils, while permeable and adequate for a
limited number of septic tanks, may be overloaded by the volume of effluent
from the number of units to be expected, septic tanks may be excluded or
limited in number. An alternative, under suitable conditions, would be
collection lines from the initial increment of dwellings to a master septic
tank system, to be replaced at an appropriate time by a disposal plant.
   (E)   Open space shall be provided pursuant to general plan policies and the
zoning ordinance.
(1966 Code, § 17A-2)
§ 23.25.003 SUBDIVISIONS; MINIMUM PARCEL SIZE FIVE ACRES OR GREATER.
   (A)   Maximum gross density: one dwelling unit to zoning minimums.
   (B)   Minimum average lot width (each parcel): ratio of the width of the lot
to its depth shall not exceed one to three. The decision-making body may waive
this requirement where, in its opinion, good lot design can otherwise be better
achieved.
(1966 Code, § 17A-3)
§ 23.25.004 SUBDIVISIONS; PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT.
   (A)   Maximum net density: no greater than the number of dwelling units
permitted under the Zoning Ordinance of San Benito County.
   (B)   Minimum lot size: as determined by the Planning Commission and/or the
Board of Supervisors.
   (C)   This class of subdivision shall be permitted only when it is shown
that a desirable living environment can be created in the development, at no
disadvantage to the general public, by:
      (1)   Clustering dwelling units on non-standard lots or with less than
standard setback distances;
      (2)   Employing such structural forms as town houses (on standard lots)
or condominiums (where lots are three-dimensional and may be one above the
other);
      (3)   Mixing dwelling classes or lot sizes beyond that possible with
standard zoning;
      (4)   Including commercial or other land uses with residential uses;
      (5)   Using common driveways to give access to most dwellings; and
      (6)   Devoting land areas to open space, recreational and agricultural
uses.
   (D)   (1)   At the time a tentative map for a planned unit development is
submitted, the map shall show in adequate detail:
         (a)   All lots, setback lines, streets, walkways and other features
not in accord with current subdivision and zoning regulations;
         (b)   All proposed structures;
         (c)   Means (setback, covenants) whereby future structures will be
controlled when the intent is to sell lots rather than completed structures;
and
         (d)   Restrictive covenants and other legal documents controlling
future activities within the development, including maintenance of streets,
common driveways, open space, drainage facilities, utilities, paths, bridle
trails and recreational areas (where not owned and maintained by a public
agency), and other pertinent information required by an agency of the county.
      (2)   If the planned unit development is to be constructed in increments,
the increments shall be shown on the tentative map, and initial increments
shall include adequate open space to maintain desired density. Facilities and
amenities shall be included with initial increment or increments to insure an
appropriate environmental quality should subsequent increments not be
developed.
(1966 Code, § 17A-4)
§ 23.25.005 SUBDIVISIONS AND PARKS, MOBILE HOME OR TRAVEL TRAILER.
   (A)   Subdivision of land for the purpose of selling lots on which
individual buyers will place a mobile home will comply with §§
23.25.002 through
23.25.004, whichever is appropriate. The placement of mobile homes on lots and
their utility connections shall comply with Cal. Code of Regulations Title 25,
Division 1, Chapter 5. Development of streets and utility installations therein
shall be to county standards. No awnings, additional rooms, and outbuildings
shall be affixed or constructed without a building permit from the county. The
Planning Commission shall require covenants and restrictions adequate to
permanently control the proper appearance and maintenance of the subdivision.
   (B)   Parks providing rental of spaces for mobile homes or travel trailers
are not subdivisions. Development thereof shall comply with the Cal. Code of
Regulations Title 25, Chapter 5.
(1966 Code, § 17A-5)
§ 23.25.006 OPEN SPACE EASEMENTS.
   (A)   In any class of subdivision where open space easements are created,
the open space shall be excluded from future subdivision or development by
conveyance of development rights to San Benito County. Uses permitted in open
space, such as development of recreational facilities, passive recreation, or
agricultural activities, shall be specified in the conveyance to or contract
with the county. In all cases financially feasible arrangements for maintenance
of open space shall be provided through an incorporated homeowners association,
a service district or conveyance to a public agency.
   (B)   When development rights are dedicated to San Benito County under this
section, the conveyance of those rights shall reserve a right in property
owners who have purchased property in the subdivision in the reliance on
preservation of open space uses to enforce the term of the conveyance by court
action.
(1966 Code, § 17A-6)
§ 23.25.007 MAINTENANCE OF SUBDIVISION FACILITIES.
   A homeowners association (as defined in §
23.01.004), duly incorporated under the laws of the State of California, shall
be formed for each new major subdivision; and may be formed for a minor
subdivision. The covenants and restrictions for the subdivision shall provide
for its formation and operation and delineate the rights and obligations of the
association, its directors and its members (which must include the right of the
association, through its members, to levy assessments that are a legal
obligation of members and a lien on subdivided property owned by members of the
association). The homeowners association shall be activated at or before the
time of approval of the final or parcel map by the Board of Supervisors, for
the purpose of street lighting, street sweeping, road maintenance, storm
drainage, landscaping maintenance and other services directly related to the
subdivision. An applicant may propose another option to developing a homeowners
association. If so, the applicant’s request shall be brought before the Board
of Supervisors, reviewed and approved prior to or during approval of the final
or parcel map, and any approved alternative shall be activated at or before the
time of approval of the final or parcel map by the Board of Supervisors.
(1966 Code, § 17A-7) (Ord. 855, § 4, 2010; Ord. 860, § 4(part), 2010; Ord. 916,
§ 1, 2013)
§ 23.25.008 GENERAL STANDARDS.
   Standards in this section, except where specifically applied to other
subdivisions, shall apply to all subdivisions. The Board of Supervisors is
empowered to adopt by ordinance or resolution additional or specific standards,
including standard drawings, applicable to residential and other subdivisions
governed by this title.
(1966 Code, § 17A-8)
§ 23.25.009 STREETS.
   (A)   Subdivision streets shall be located to conform to Transportation
Element of the general plan of San Benito County and the road standards, where
applicable. Road improvements shall be constructed prior to or concurrently
with other subdivision improvements.
   (B)   The street system in a subdivision shall relate to existing streets in
adjoining areas, where consistent with good planning.
   (C)   Half-width or partial-width streets shall be permitted only when a
portion of a planned street lies outside the property of a developer, and,
until additional development in the area occurs, the fractional street will
serve only as access to a limited number of dwellings. In such cases, pavement
width shall be adequate for present use. Minimum right-of-way width shall be 40
feet, unless approved by a four-fifths majority of the Board of Supervisors.
   (D)   Direct access to dwellings from a limited access road, shall be
permitted only in isolated instances when no other practical access is
available. Driveways will then be constructed so that vehicles will not back
into the arterial road, and required sight distance shall be the same as would
be required for connection with a minor street. Normally, dwellings will be
separated from an arterial street by a landscaped buffer strip and will be
entered from a minor residential street. Fencing to approved design may be
required along arterial and collector streets. Relinquishments of access rights
to control access over certain lot lines or street stubs shall be dedicated to
the county.
   (E)   Right-of-way widths, pavement widths and sidewalks shall be as
provided by specific standards adopted by ordinance for the applicable class of
subdivision involved.
   (F)   Cul-de-sacs shall terminate in a turn-around right-of-way not less
than 100 feet in diameter. In steep terrain or in development of properties of
unusual shape, additional turnarounds may be required on steep terrain; for
cul-de-sacs serving six or fewer lots, the County Engineer may authorize a
specially designed turnaround suitable to the particular conditions. Where
through roads terminate temporarily at a property line, or at a division
between increments of a development, suitable facilities for turning vehicles
shall be provided.
   (G)   Grades above 6% on arterial streets and above 10% on other streets
will be approved only when the County Engineer determines that the lesser grade
is impractical. No grade on an arterial street may exceed 8%, and grades on
minor streets may only be permitted to exceed 15% in extreme cases, but not
over 16%, for up to 400 feet, and with special pavement. These maximums shall
be reduced, as necessary, for sharp curves, intersections and at other
locations where needed for safe vehicle operation.
   (H)   Earth banks, trees and fences shall not be permitted to obscure
adequate sight distance at intersections.
   (I)   The subdivider shall provide maximum off-street parking where
feasible. Driveways, unless specifically exempted, shall be of a length and at
a gradient as to permit cars to park on the lot and outside the carport or
garage. Where available length of driveway or extreme gradient makes parking
thereon infeasible, other off-street parking spaces may be required by the
County Engineer or Planning Director. In commercial and industrial
subdivisions, all parking spaces (except curbside parking) shall be so located
as to permit vehicles to enter streets without backing.
   (J)   Streets shall intersect at 90 degrees or as near thereto as permitted
by the terrain. Where two side streets intersect an arterial or collector
street, they shall enter directly opposite one another. There shall be
approximately 1,320 feet between streets entering an arterial street from the
same side. Intersections along an arterial or collector street shall be kept to
a minimum, depending on the traffic volume and normal vehicular speed on the
street. Where required by nature and volume of traffic movements, left turn
lanes, acceleration and deceleration lanes will be required on major streets.
T-intersections shall be provided where practical on local circulation streets.
   (K)   Common driveways serving four or fewer single family residential lots
shall be maintained by a service area or association, except that in a
subdivision where no such agency is provided, maintenance of common driveways
serving four or fewer residential lots may be provided for by recorded
restrictive covenant or recorded mutual contract between owners, covering
arrangements for shared costs of maintenance, and specifically exempting San
Benito County or other public agency for liability and cost of maintenance. All
common driveways shall be improved prior to or concurrently with other
subdivision improvements.
   (L)   Where slopes extend onto private property as the result of street
grading during development, slope easements shall be provided on those lots
affected, or a blanket slope easement may be included in the dedication
certificate on the parcel or final map along all street frontage of lots.
(1966 Code, § 17A-9)
§ 23.25.010 BLOCKS.
   (A)   Cross streets, dividing residential areas into blocks shall be of
intervals appropriate to the terrain and intensity of development. Adequate
circulation shall be provided within a subdivision by the cross streets.
Optimum block length is normally between 660 and 1,320 feet.
   (B)   Walkways through long blocks may be required, their location and
number being determined by block length, convenient pedestrian traffic routes
to schools, and commercial and recreational facilities. Walkways shall not be
less than ten feet wide and shall be suitably improved for all-weather
pedestrian traffic. Lighting may be required.
(1966 Code, § 17A-10)
§ 23.25.011 LOTS.
   (A)   Lots shall contain an adequate building site for a structure of the
reasonably expected size and type.
   (B)   The depth of lots shall not exceed three times the average width. The
Planning Commission may grant exceptions where the Commission determines that
the terrain or property boundaries make this advisable.
   (C)   Lot sidelines shall normally intersect street right-of-way lines at
approximately 90 degrees or radially. The Planning Commission may waive this
requirement in steep terrain or for large lots, where in its opinion good lot
design and provision for driveways can otherwise be better achieved.
   (D)   Panhandle or flag lots will only be permitted where the proposed
parcel is at the end of a cul-de-sac that is not foreseen by the county as
being extended and where the resulting parcel cannot be further subdivided
under the current zoning designation. Panhandles shall be not less than 20 feet
in width, and this width shall be increased if steepness of terrain or other
conditions shall render it inadequate for a driveway. Panhandles shall be
improved to the county standards for common private driveways.
   (E)   Lots facing streets carrying heavy traffic may be paired or grouped,
and two or more lots may be served by a common driveway that enters the street
at a point of adequate sight distance. In such cases, access rights shall be
dedicated to the county along the balance of those lots facing the street that
are served by the common driveway.
   (F)   Vehicular access rights shall be dedicated to the county along the
corner return on corner lots and on such other lot frontages where it is, in
the opinion of the County Engineer, unsafe to locate driveways.
   (G)   Double frontage lots, except where the second frontage is on a cross
street, shall only be allowed where necessitated by terrain conditions or where
one of the streets is a limited access road. When lots front on more than one
street, access rights shall be dedicated to the county on a frontage as the
County Engineer directs.
   (H)   On tangents and on curved right-of-way lines having a radius over 150
feet, any lot under 10,000 square feet in area shall have a frontage of not
less than 50 feet and lots 10,000 square feet or greater in area shall have a
frontage of not less than 60 feet. On curves with a radius less than 150 feet,
including the turn around at the end of cul-de-sacs, the lot width at the
building setback line shall be not less than 45 feet.
   (I)   Lots shall be designed to preserve the maximum number of trees and
other natural amenities and to minimize grading. On lots over one acre or where
a potential hazard exists, the Planning Commission may require special setback
lines or building envelopes to limit construction to the portion of the lot
most suitable, to preserve trees or to prevent unnecessary interference with
views from public roads.
   (J)   Approved access to each parcel is required.
   (K)   The lot standards set forth in this section may be modified as
provided in an adopted specific plan, in which case the standards established
within the specific plan shall control.
(1966 Code, § 17A-11) (Ord. 860, § 4 (part), 2010)
§ 23.25.012 RECREATIONAL FACILITIES.
   Recreational facilities shall be provided as required by the Planning
Commission to achieve the living environment appropriate to the type of
development. Maintenance arrangements for parks, recreation facilities, open
space and landscaping shall be satisfactory to the Board of Supervisors and
shall consist of dedication to the county, establishment of a county service
area with maintenance obligations, or formation of an incorporated homeowners
association with covenants making assessments a lien upon all parcels sold and
specifying maintenance obligations of the association. Parks for common use and
maintenance by the county shall be dedicated to San Benito County at the time
of subdivision. Recreational areas and open space will be covered by
appropriate easements.
(1966 Code, § 17A-12)
§ 23.25.013 GRADING AND EROSION CONTROL.
   Every tentative, final or parcel map approved pursuant to this title shall
be conditioned on compliance with the requirements for grading and erosion
control, including the prevention of sedimentation or damage to off-site
property.
(1966 Code, § 17A-13)
CHAPTER 23.27: FIRE DESIGN STANDARDS
Section
   
23.27.001   Application
   
23.27.002   Exceptions and appeals
   
23.27.003   Maintenance of defensible space measures
   
23.27.004   Standards
   
23.27.005   Fire protection supply for water systems
§ 23.27.001 APPLICATION.
   The access and water system required by the provisions of this chapter shall
apply when new parcels are approved by a local jurisdiction and shall be
available on-site upon completion of road construction, where a community water
system is approved, or prior to the framing stage of building construction,
where an individual system is approved.
(1966 Code, § 17B-1)
§ 23.27.002 EXCEPTIONS AND APPEALS.
   Exceptions and appeals from any provision of this section hereof are allowed
as defined in Cal. Public Resources Code § 4290 and the variance procedure as
outlined in the Zoning Ordinance. The exception or appeal procedure must be
finalized prior to submitting for a variance with the county.
(1966 Code, § 17B-2)
§ 23.27.003 MAINTENANCE OF DEFENSIBLE SPACE MEASURES.
   To ensure continued maintenance of properties in conformance with these
standards and measures and to assure continued availability, access and
utilization of the defensible space provided for in these standards during a
wildfire, provisions for annual maintenance shall be included in the
development plans and/or shall be provided as a condition of the permit, parcel
or map approval.
(1966 Code, § 17B-3)
§ 23.27.004 STANDARDS.
   (A)   Road width. All roads shall be constructed to provide a minimum of two
nine-foot traffic lanes providing two-way traffic flow, unless other standards
are provided in this chapter or additional requirements are mandated by this
title.
   (B)   Roadway surface. The surface shall provide unobstructed access to
conventional drive vehicles, including sedans and fire engines. Surfaces should
be established in conformance with local ordinances, and be capable of
supporting an HS-20 and alternate load. A minimum six-inch aggregate base shall
be used as a minimum standard where paving is not required.
   (C)   Roadway grades. The grade for all roads, streets, private lanes, and
driveways shall not exceed 15%, except up to 16% grades may be allowed by the
local fire district for distances of not more than 400 feet.
   (D)   Roadway radius.
      (1)   No roadway shall have a horizontal inside radius of curvature of
less than 50 feet; additional surface width to a minimum of 22 feet shall be
added to curves of 50 to 100 feet radius; to a minimum of 20 feet for those
from 100 to 200 feet, except intersection returns.
      (2)   The length of vertical curves in roadways, exclusive of gutters,
ditches and drainage structures designed to hold or divert water, shall be not
less than 100 feet.
   (E)   Roadway turnarounds. Turnarounds are required on driveways and dead-
end roads as specified in this chapter. The minimum turning radius for a
turnaround shall be 40 feet from the centerline of the road. If a hammerhead/
T is used, the top of the “T” shall be a minimum of 60 feet in length. A
hammerhead/T at the end of a road shall only be allowed where the road terminus
is considered temporary.
   (F)   Roadway turnouts. Turnouts shall be a minimum of 12 feet wide and 30
feet long with a minimum 25 foot taper on each end.
   (G)   Roadway structures.
      (1)   All driveway, road, street and private lane roadway structures
shall be constructed to carry at least the HS20 and alternate load and provide
15 feet minimum vertical clearance.
      (2)   Appropriate signing, including but not limited to weight or
vertical clearance limitations, one-way road or single lane conditions, shall
reflect the capability of each bridge.
      (3)   A bridge with only one traffic lane may be authorized by the local
jurisdiction; however, it shall provide for unobstructed visibility from one
end to the other and turnouts at both ends.
   (H)   One-way roads. All one-way roads shall be constructed to provide a
minimum of one 12-foot traffic lane. The local jurisdiction may approve one-way
roads. All one-way roads shall connect to a two-lane roadway at both ends, and
shall provide access to an area currently zoned for no more than ten dwelling
units. In no case shall it exceed 2,640 feet in length. A turnout shall be
placed and constructed at approximately the midpoint of each one-way road.
   (I)   Dead-end roads.
      (1)   (a)   The maximum length of a dead-end road, including all dead-end
roads accessed from that dead-end road, shall not exceed the following
cumulative lengths (in feet), except as provided below:
 
Fire Hazard Ratings
Zoning District  LRA   Mod.  High V. High
R1, RR, RM, C, M 800   800   800  600
RT               1,320 1,000 800  600
R, AP            2,640 1,000 800  600
AR               5,280 1,000 800  600
 
         (b)   All lengths shall be measured from the edge of the roadway
surface at the intersection that begins the road to the end of the road surface
at its farthest point. Where a dead-end road crosses areas of differing zoned
parcel sizes, requiring different length limits, the shortest allowable length
shall apply. The lengths specified in the LRA shall not be exceeded.
         (c)   However, the further restrictions in the categories of moderate,
high and very high, may be exceeded up to the LRA lengths if mitigations
satisfactory to the Planning Commission are provided. Mitigations that may be
considered include, but are not limited to NFPA approved structure fire
sprinkler systems, “open-ended” cul-de-sac design, fire-resistant construction
materials (roof and structure), and secondary emergency access to standards set
in this section.
      (2)   Where parcels are zoned five acres or larger, turnarounds shall be
provided at a maximum of 1,320 foot intervals.
      (3)   Each dead-end road shall have a turnaround constructed at its
terminus.
   (J)   Driveways. All driveways shall provide a minimum 12-foot traffic lane
and unobstructed vertical clearance of 15 feet along its entire length.
      (1)   Driveways exceeding 150 feet in length, but less than 800 feet in
length, shall provide a turnout near the midpoint of the driveway. Where the
driveway exceeds 800 feet, turnouts shall be provided no more than 400 feet
apart.
      (2)   A turnaround shall be provided at all building sites on driveways
over 300 feet in length, and shall be within 50 feet of the building.
   (K)   Roadside vegetation. Roadside vegetation contributing to significant
risk shall be removed for a distance of ten feet on each side of the traveled
section, where required by the fire protection agency. To protect escape routes
from radiant heat caused by wildfires, native vegetation should be thinned and
dead material removed on each side of roads or highways. This may reduce
radiant heat from a wildfire to an acceptable level.
   (L)   Gate entrances.
      (1)   Gate entrances shall be at least two feet wider than the width of
the traffic lane(s) serving that gate.
      (2)   All gates providing access from a road to a driveway shall be
located at least 30 feet from the roadway and shall open to allow a vehicle to
stop without obstructing traffic on that road.
      (3)   Where a one-way road with a single traffic lane provides access to
a gated entrance, a 40 foot turning radius shall be used.
      (4)   A lock or other device that allows emergency vehicles unlimited
access shall be installed on all gates, including electronic gates.
   (M)   Size of letters. Numbers, and symbols for street and road signs size
of letters, numbers and symbols for street and road signs shall be a minimum
three-inch letter height, three-eighths inch stroke, reflectorized and contrast
with the background color of the sign.
   (N)   Visibility and legibility of street and road signs. Street and road
signs shall be visible and legible from both directions of vehicle travel for a
distance of at least 100 feet.
   (O)   Height of street and road signs. Height of street and road signs shall
be uniform countywide, and meet the visibility and legibility standards of this
chapter.
   (P)   Names and numbers on street and road signs. Newly constructed or
approved public and private roads and streets must be identified by a name or
number through a consistent countywide system that provides for sequenced or
patterned numbering and/or non-duplicating naming. All signs shall be mounted
and oriented in a uniform manner. This section does not require any entity to
rename or renumber existing roads or streets, nor shall a roadway providing
access only to a single commercial or industrial occupancy require naming or
numbering.
   (Q)   Intersecting roads. Streets and private lanes signs required by this
chapter identifying intersecting roads, streets and private lanes shall be
placed at the intersection of those roads, streets and/or private lanes.
   (R)   Signs identifying traffic access limitations. A sign identifying
traffic access or flow limitations, including but not limited to weight or
vertical clearance limitations, dead-end road, one-way road or single lane
conditions, shall be placed at the intersection preceding the traffic access
limitation and no more than 100 feet before such traffic access limitation.
   (S)   Installation of road, street, and private lane signs. Road, street and
private lane signs required by this chapter shall be installed prior to final
acceptance by the local jurisdiction of road improvements.
   (T)   Addresses for buildings. All buildings shall be issued an address by
the county that conforms to the overall address system. Accessory buildings
will not be required to have a separate address; however, each dwelling unit
within a building shall be separately identified.
   (U)   Size of letters numbers and symbols for addresses. Size of letters,
numbers and symbols for addresses shall be a minimum three inch letter height,
three-eighths inch stroke, reflectorized, contrasting with the background color
of the sign.
   (V)   Installation, location, and visibility of addresses.
      (1)   All buildings shall have a permanently posted address, which shall
be placed at each driveway entrance and visible from both directions of travel
along the road. In all cases, the address shall be posted at the beginning of
construction and shall be maintained thereafter, and the address shall be
visible and legible from the road on which the address is located.
      (2)   Address signs along one-way roads shall be visible from both the
intended direction of travel and the opposite direction.
      (3)   Where multiple addresses are required at a single driveway, they
shall be mounted on a single post.
      (4)   Where a roadway provides access solely to a single commercial or
industrial business, the address sign shall be placed at the nearest road
intersection providing access to that site.
   (W)   General water standards.
      (1)   Intent. Emergency water for wildfire protection shall be available
and accessible in quantities and locations specified in the statute and these
regulations, in order to attack a wildfire or defend property from a wildfire.
The emergency water may be provided in a fire agency mobile water tender, or
naturally occurring or man-made containment structure, as long as the specified
quantity is immediately available.
      (2)   General standards.
         (a)   Water systems that meet or exceed the standards specified in
Public Utilities Commission of California (PUC) revised General Order #103,
adopted June 12, 1956 (corrected September 7, 1983, Decision 83-09-001), § VIII
Fire Protection Standards and other applicable sections relating to fire
protection water delivery systems, static water systems equaling or exceeding
the National Fire Protection Association (NFPA) Standard 1231, “Standard on
Water Supplies for Suburban and Rural Fire Fighting”, 1989 Edition, or mobile
water systems that meet the Insurance Services Office (ISO) Rural Class 8, 2nd
Edition 3-80, standard shall be accepted as meeting the requirements of this
chapter. These documents are available at CDF Ranger Unit Headquarters.
         (b)   Nothing in this chapter prohibits the combined storage of
emergency wildfire and structural firefighting water supplies unless so
prohibited by local ordinance or specified by the local fire agency. Where
freeze protection is required by local jurisdictions, the protection measures
shall be provided.
   (X)   Hydrant/fire valve.
      (1)   The hydrant or fire valve shall be 18 inches above grade, eight
feet from flammable vegetation, no closer than four feet nor farther than 12
feet from a roadway, and in a location where fire apparatus using it will not
block the roadway. The hydrant serving any building shall be located at a
turnout or turnaround, along the driveway to that building or along the road
that intersects with that driveway.
      (2)   (a)   San Benito County has adopted two types of fire hydrants for
use in its protection area. The “county standard” hydrant is compatible with
Sunnyslope County Water District and the City of Hollister. The “wharf hydrant”
may be used only on private water systems (i.e. single family dwellings, on
previously established lots), and areas served by the San Benito County Water
District. Planned unit developments will require the use of “county standard”
hydrants.
            1.   “County Standard” hydrant specifications. All hydrants shall
meet AWWA C502 standards and shall have a six-inch inlet with one four and one-
half inch outlet and two two and one-half inch outlets.
            2.   “Wharf Hydrant” specifications. Four inch inlet, tapered IPT
female with one two and one-half inch NSHT male outlet, cap and chain with
pentagon stem nut.
         (b)   Installation will be done using standard construction practices.
Thrust blocks will be used at all pressure points. The minimum bedding will
require six inches of jetted sand backfill.
         (c)   Each hydrant/fire valve or access to water shall be identified
by a reflectorized blue marker, with a minimum dimension of three inches.
   (Y)   Signing of water sources. Each hydrant/fire valve or access to water
shall be identified as follows:
      (1)   If located along a driveway, a reflectorized blue marker, with a
minimum dimension of three inches shall be located on the driveway address sign
and mounted on a fire retardant post; or
      (2)   If located along a street or road:
         (a)   A reflectorized blue marker, with a minimum dimension of three
inches, shall be mounted on a fire retardant post. The sign post shall be
within three feet of the hydrant/fire valve, with the sign no less than three
feet nor greater than five feet above ground, in a horizontal position and
visible from the driveway; or
         (b)   As specified in the State Fire Marshal’s Guidelines for Fire
Hydrant Markings Along State Highways and Freeways, May 1988.
   (Z)   Setback for structure defensible space. All parcels one acre and
larger shall provide a minimum 30-foot setback for buildings and accessory
buildings from all property lines and/or the center of a road. As an
alternative, recorded evidence of a vegetation clearance easement of at least
30 feet width can be submitted for reduced setbacks.
   (AA)   Disposal of flammable vegetation and fuels. Disposal, including
chipping, burying, burning or removal to a landfill site approved by the local
jurisdiction, of flammable vegetation and fuels caused by site development and
construction, road and driveway construction, and fuel modification shall be
completed prior to completion of road construction or final inspection of a
building permit.
   (BB)   Greenbelts. Subdivisions and other developments that propose
greenbelts as a part of the development plan, shall locate the greenbelts
strategically, as a separation between wildland fuels and structures. The
locations shall be as approved by the inspection authority.
(1966 Code, § 17B-4)
§ 23.27.005 FIRE PROTECTION SUPPLY FOR WATER SYSTEMS.
   (A)   Systems In addition to the requirements for domestic water,
development shall be required to provide water systems for fire protection
demands. Additional flow will be required for high and very high fire hazard
zones. An additional 250 gpm shall be provided for systems where the CC&Rs do
not require Class A roof material, as defined by the Uniform Building Code, on
inhabited structures.
RURAL: Single-family dwellings on more than acre; recreational vehicle parks
   500 gpm fire flow at minimum 20 psi
   660 feet hydrant spacing
   330 feet maximum distance from building envelopes
   Four-inch mains and valves (one to four lots)
   Six-inch mains and valves (five or more lots)
   Four-inch riser with a single “county standard” hydrant or wharf hydrant for
existing lots
RESIDENTIAL: Single-family dwelling on one acre or less
   500 gpm fire flow at minimum 20 psi
   660 feet hydrant spacing
   330 feet maximum distance from building envelopes
   Six-inch mains and valves
   Four-inch riser with a single county standard or wharf hydrant for existing
lots
   Six-inch riser with a “county standard” hydrant (five or more lots)
RESIDENTIAL: Two single-family dwellings per acre
   750 gpm fire flow at minimum 20 psi
   660 feet hydrant spacing
   330 feet maximum distance from building envelopes
   County standard hydrant
RESIDENTIAL: Three or more single-family dwellings per acre; mobile home parks
   1,000 gpm fire flow at minimum 20 psi
   330 feet hydrant spacing
   330 feet maximum distance from building envelopes
   County standard hydrant
MULTIPLE RESIDENTIAL: Duplex, neighborhood business of one story
   1,500 gpm fire flow at minimum 20 psi
   330 feet hydrant spacing
   County standard hydrant
MULTIPLE RESIDENTIAL: Triplex, apartment, one and two story; light commercial
or light industrial; schools
   2,000 gpm fire flow at minimum 20 psi
   300 feet hydrant spacing
   County standard hydrant
MULTIPLE RESIDENTIAL: Three stories or higher; heavy commercial or industrial
   2,500 gpm fire flow at minimum 20 psi
   300 feet hydrant spacing
   County standard hydrant
   (B)   Water storage capacities. Water storage capacities must be able to
provide the above fire flow for a two-hour duration or meet the following
exceptions:
      (1)   Separately developed dwellings with an individual private water
supply will provide a minimum of 5,000 gallons supply of water each, dedicated
for fire suppression, or as calculated by the following formula, whichever is
greater (NFPA Standard 1231):
 
Single structure without exposure hazards
total cu. ft. of struc./Occupancy Hazard Class x Construction Class #
Single structure with exposure hazards
total cu. ft. of struc./Occupancy Hazard Class x Construction Class # x 1.5
 
      (2)   Lakes, ponds, swimming pools, streams or other water sources may be
used for fire protection resources as long as provisions are made for access to
the supply either by plumbing or fire engine access within 16 feet for drafting
purposes and the capacities equal the requirements above.
      (3)   When the property division is a total of four lots or less and the
topography, zoning and other conditions preclude its redivision or addition of
more parcels on the system, the source may be not less than the required
minimum storage of 20,000 gallons for the system.
      (4)   The use of San Felipe water for fire protection is permissible in
lieu of other systems and storage if permitted by San Benito County Water
District. If the system is not located at an accessible location, the line must
be extended to a location that meets the rural: single-family dwelling
guidelines above. Improvement plans must be approved by the San Benito County
Water District and the county’s Fire Department.
      (5)   Residential sprinklers will reduce the needed water storage
capacities by 50%.
      (6)   Fire protection water systems operated by water companies under
regulations of the Public Utilities Commission shall comply with the standards
of PUC General Order #103 or Title 22 as applicable.
(1966 Code, § 17B-5)
CHAPTER 23.29: ROAD STANDARDS
Section
   
23.29.001   Standards tables
§ 23.29.001   STANDARDS TABLES
Click_here_for_PDF_version_of_the_table.
Urban and Suburban Lots < Five Acres
                        R/    C to                                    Noise
Road           Dwelling W     C     Roadbed Curb                      Cont.  Design Traffic Allowable
Classification Units    Width Width Width   and    Sidewalks Lighting and    Speed  Index   ADT @
               Reserved (4)   (5)           Gutter                    Street Min.           Buildout
                        (6)                                           Trees
Urban and Suburban Lots < Five Acres
                        R/    C to                                    Noise
Road           Dwelling W     C     Roadbed Curb                      Cont.  Design Traffic Allowable
Classification Units    Width Width Width   and    Sidewalks Lighting and    Speed  Index   ADT @
               Reserved (4)   (5)           Gutter                    Street Min.           Buildout
                        (6)                                           Trees
Common drive   2-4      30    16    18      No     No        No       No     10 mph 3.0     40
PVT
Cul-de-sac or  5-50     60    40    42      Yes    Yes (8)   Yes      Trees  20 mph 4.0     500
loop
Local RES      51-200   60    40    42      Yes    Yes       Yes      Trees  30 mph 4.5     1,500
(through)
Collector no   201-600  60    40    42      Yes    Yes       Yes      Both   50 mph 5       6,000
access (7)
Collector      201-800  84    64    66      Yes    Yes       Yes      Both   40 mph 6       8,000
access
Arterial (7)   601-2000 110   94    96      Yes    Yes       Yes      Both   60 mph 7       20,000
Expressway (7) 2001-    130   2-40  2-42    Yes    Yes       Yes      Both   70 mph 8       36,000
               3600
NOTES TO TABLE:
MOUNTAIN & RECREATIONAL
In open or moderately sloping areas the ruts! standards shell prevail. But true mountain or forested
areas require individual design considerations to preserve slopes. trees, and ground normally cover.
Loops of one-way road maintenance. narrow roads with frequent passing bays may be needed, consistent
with required fire apparatus access. Such types of roads will normally be private, not requiring
county maintenance.
PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENTS
Street requirements shall be based on the approximate above category, subject to the design
flexibility that is the purpose for PUDs.
(1)    Rural units based on 12 TE/unit.
(2)    Per development approval.
(3)    Minimums shown above shall be increased where warranted by soils or traffic characteristics.
(4)    R/W is determined by number of lots served at maximum allowed density.
(5)    Improvements are determined by number of lots served at the conclusion of the current
development.
(6)    Slope easements as needed, PUE's and TPEs will be required in addition to the R/W shown.
(7)    Limited access classifications.
(8)    Where serving up to 20 lots, sidewalk on one side may be allowed.
SPECIFIC PLANS
Street requirements within the boundaries of an adopted specific plan shall be as set forth therein.
 
Click_here_for_PDF_version_of_table_below.
Urban and Suburban Lots > Five Acres
                        R/    C to                                    Noise
Road           Dwelling W     C     Roadbed Curb                      Cont.  Design Traffic Allowable
Classification Units    Width Width Width   and    Sidewalks Lighting and    Speed  Index   ADT @
               Reserved (4)   (5)           Gutter                    Street Min.           Buildout
                        (6)                                           Trees
Urban and Suburban Lots > Five Acres
                        R/    C to                                        Noise
Road           Dwelling W     C     Roadbed Curb                          Cont.  Design Traffic Allowable
Classification Units    Width Width Width   and    Sidewalks Lighting     and    Speed  Index   ADT @
               Reserved (4)   (5)           Gutter                        Street Min.           Buildout
                        (6)                                               Trees
Common drive   2-4      30    16    18      No     No        No           No     10 mph 3       48
PVT
Cul-de-sac or  5-42     60    24    34      No     (2)       No           No     20 mph 4.0     500
loop
Local RES      43-125   60    28    38      No     (2)       Intersection No     30 mph 4.5     1,500
(through)
Collector no   126-500  60    32    42      No     (2)       Intersection No     50 mph 5       6,000
access (7)
Collector      126-666  84    56    66      No     (2)       Intersection No     40 mph 6       8,000
access
Arterial (7)   667-1667 110   94    96      No     (2)       Intersection Both   60 mph 7       20,000
Expressway (7) 1668-    130   2-29  2-34    No     (2)       Intersection Both   70 mph 8       36,000
               3000
NOTES TO TABLE:
MOUNTAIN & RECREATIONAL
In open or moderately sloping areas the ruts! standards shell prevail. But true mountain or forested
areas require individual design considerations to preserve slopes. trees, and ground normally cover.
Loops of one-way road maintenance. narrow roads with frequent passing bays may be needed, consistent with
required fire apparatus access. Such types of roads will normally be private, not requiring county
maintenance.
PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENTS
Street requirements shall be based on the approximate above category, subject to the design flexibility
that is the purpose for PUDs.
(1)    Rural units based on 12 TE/unit.
(2)    Per development approval.
(3)    Minimums shown above shall be increased where warranted by soils or traffic characteristics.
(4)    R/W is determined by number of lots served at maximum allowed density.
(5)    Improvements are determined by number of lots served at the conclusion of the current development.
(6)    Slope easements as needed, PUE's and TPEs will be required in addition to the R/W shown.
(7)    Limited access classifications.
(8)    Where serving up to 20 lots, sidewalk on one side may be allowed.
SPECIFIC PLANS
Street requirements within the boundaries of an adopted specific plan shall be as set forth therein.
 
(Ord. 860, § 4 (part), 2010)
CHAPTER 23.31: IMPROVEMENT DESIGNS
Section
Article I. General Design Standards
   
23.31.001   Purpose and definitions
   
23.31.002   General requirements
   
23.31.003   Preparation of improvement plans
Article II. Roadway Design Standards
   
23.31.020   General
   
23.31.021   Street types
   
23.31.022   Traffic studies
   
23.31.023   Design standards
Article III. Storm Drainage Design Standards
   
23.31.040   Design storm
   
23.31.041   Design storm runoff
   
23.31.042   Hydraulic criteria
   
23.31.043   Construction requirements
   
23.31.044   Drainage report
   
23.31.045   Drainage improvement plans
Article IV. Water System Design Standards
   
23.31.060   General
   
23.31.061   Water supply requirements
   
23.31.062   Water distribution system design
Article V. Sewer System Design Standards
   
23.31.080   General provisions
   
23.31.081   Community sewage system design
   
23.31.082   On-site systems
   
23.31.083   Materials
ARTICLE I. GENERAL DESIGN STANDARDS
§ 23.31.001 PURPOSE AND DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of these improvement standards and specifications
is to establish minimum design standards for the construction of subdivisions,
and commercial and other types of development. This is necessary in order to
provide for coordinated development of facilities to be used by and for the
protection of the public. Deviations from these improvement standards and
specifications are permissible (division (D) below); there is no intent to
restrict licensed civil engineer’s prerogative to use generally accepted good
engineering practices and common sense. The County Engineer will consider
alternative solutions substantiated by appropriate data.
   (B)   Definitions. Attention is directed to § 1 of the CALTRANS Standard
Specifications and to the following additional and qualifying definitions.
      APPLICANT. Any person, association, corporation, entity or government
agency desiring approval of a project or issuance of a permit; often a
subdivider or developer.
      BOARD OF SUPERVISORS. Board of Supervisors of San Benito County, State of
California.
      CONSULTING ENGINEER. Any person or persons, firm, partnership or
corporation legally authorized to practice Civil Engineering in the State of
California who prepares or submits improvement plans and specifications to the
Department of Public Works of San Benito County for approval. This term is used
interchangeably with Design Engineer.
      CONTRACTOR. Any person or persons, firm, partnership, corporation or
combination thereof who have entered into a contract with any person,
corporation, company, special district or the County of San Benito as party or
parties of the second part, or their legal representatives, for the
construction of any improvement or portion of any improvement within the
county.
      COUNTY. The County of San Benito, a political subdivision of the State of
California.
      DEPARTMENT. San Benito County Department of Public Works.
      DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS. The Department of Public Works of San Benito
County.
      DESIGN ENGINEER. The Professional Engineer (registered by the State of
California) employed by the applicant to design, prepare plans and conduct
related engineering activities. See CONSULTING ENGINEER.
      DEVELOPER/SUBDIVIDER. A person, firm, corporation, partnership,
association or agent thereof who causes land to be divided into a subdivision
or causes existing property to be developed for himself, herself or for others.
      DIRECTOR. The County Engineer of San Benito County acting either directly
or through properly authorized agents, such agents acting within the scope of
the particular duties delegated to him or her.
      ENGINEER. Identical to the definition of COUNTY ENGINEER, as herein
defined.
      INSPECTOR. The authorized representative of the Engineer assigned to a
job site.
      LABORATORY. Any testing agency or testing firm approved by the County
Engineer.
      ROAD COMMISSIONER. The County Engineer of San Benito County acting either
directly or through properly authorized agents, such agents acting within the
scope of the particular duties delegated to them.
      STATE. As used only in the CALTRANS Standard Specifications, shall mean
San Benito County.
      STATE STANDARD SPECIFICATIONS. Standard Specifications of the State of
California, Department of Transportation (CALTRANS) dated January 1988 and any
revisions or additions thereto.
   (C)   Abbreviations.
      AAN. American Association of Nurserymen.
      AASHTO. American Association of State Highway and Transportation
Officials.
      ACI. American Concrete Institute.
      AFBMA. Anti-Friction Bearing Manufacturer’s Association.
      AISC. American Institute of Steel Construction.
      AISI. American Iron and Steel Institute.
      ANSI. American National Standards Institute.
      ASCE. American Society of Civil Engineers.
      ASME. American Society of Mechanical Engineers.
      ASTM. American Society for Testing Materials.
      AWWA. American Water Works Association.
      C.I. Cast iron.
      D.I. Ductile iron.
      IEEE. Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers.
      I.S.A. Instrument Society of America.
      NEC. National Electric Code.
      NEMA. National Electrical Manufacturers Association.
      OSHA. Occupational Safety and Health Administration.
      P.V.C. Polyvinyl Chloride Pipe.
      UPC. Uniform Plumbing Code.
      WWPA. Western Wood Preservers Association.
   (D)   Deviations. Deviations from these standards can be made only on
approval of the County Engineer. Requests for deviations must be submitted in
writing, together with supporting justification and technical documentation.
Designs should not be made nor shall construction be started where a deviation
is needed without first obtaining approval of the deviation.
   (E)   Appeal. Decisions of the County Engineer may be appealed to the Board
of Supervisors. Appeals shall be submitted to the Clerk of the Board in writing
and be accompanied by supporting technical data and other supporting evidence.
   (F)   Effective date of standards. These standards are effective 30 days
after adoption of this title and shall supersede all former design standards.
These standards may be revised, amended or added to, and the revisions,
amendments and additions shall be binding and of full force and effect when
printed and distributed to holders of previous editions.
§ 23.31.002 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Engineering and construction policy.
      (1)   The engineering policy of the county requires strict compliance
with the Civil and Professional Engineers Act of the California Business and
Professions Code. All plans, specifications, reports and documents required by
the county shall be signed and sealed or stamped with the seal of a registered
Civil Engineer, currently licensed to practice in the State of California. This
signature or seal will indicate their responsibility and expiration date of the
license.
      (2)   All facilities covered by those standards shall be constructed by
contractors holding a currently valid license issued by the Contractors License
Board, Department of Professional and Vocational Standards, State of
California. The contractor must be licensed in one of the following
classifications:
         (a)   General Engineering Class 1A; and
         (b)   Specialty license covering specialty work being performed.
      (3)   If the Design Engineer responsible for the plans disagrees with any
changes required by the Engineer as a result of the Department’s review of the
plans, the disagreement shall be brought to the attention of the Engineer for
resolution prior to the start of construction of the project set forth in the
plans. The seal or stamp of the Design Engineer on the corrected and approved
plans for construction will signify that they have reviewed, approved and
authorized the corrected plans for construction.
   (B)   Approved plans. Complete plans and specifications for all proposed
streets, bikeways, grading, drainage facilities, sewerage, street lighting,
water distribution systems, industrial developments, commercial developments
and subdivisions, including any necessary dedications, easements and rights-of-
entry, shall be submitted to the County Engineer for approval. This approval
must be substantiated by the signature of the County Engineer or his or her
authorized representatives prior to the beginning of construction of any such
improvements. The County Engineer or their representative shall order any
contractor to cease work on any project if the contractor does not have
properly approved plans in his or her possession.
   (C)   Reference to county specifications and standards. The general notes
and special provisions of all plans shall include the following note: All
construction and materials shall be in accordance with the latest edition of
the San Benito County Improvement Standards.
   (D)   Work in county rights-of-way, easements and waterways.
      (1)   Possession of a complete set of county-approved engineered plans
and valid encroachment permit shall allow a contractor to perform work
specified on the plans in county rights-of-way, easements, and waterways. The
contractor shall be bonded as required and as specified in
Chapter 19.27 of the San Benito County Code.
      (2)   In lieu of the above required plans, minor work within county
rights-of-way, easements and waterways shall be performed in accordance with
the following:
         (a)   1.   Minor work within street rights-of-way and easements may be
performed with an encroachment permit. Minor work generally consists of such
items as widening or constructing sidewalks adjacent to existing roadside curb
and gutter, constructing driveways in existing curb and gutter, constructing
asphalt concrete driveways, installing driveway culverts for utility related
work, and work which requires cutting and road surface.
            2.   The encroachment permit shall be issued in accordance with
Cal. Streets and Highways Code Division 2, Chapter 5.5, and
Chapter 19.27 of San Benito County Code.
         (b)   Work within street rights-of-way and easements consisting of
street light installations or street light installations and minor work
described above may be performed with an encroachment permit and sketch of the
proposed encroachment.
         (c)   Encroachment sketch shall be in accordance with all of the
requirements of these standards except that division (A)(1) will be waived for
the preparation of the encroachment sketch.
      (3)   (a)   Minor work within the floodplain of all creeks and swales,
waterways, and drainage easements may be performed with a San Benito County
flood control agency permit.
         (b)   Minor work generally consists of such items as connecting yard
drains into existing manholes, grading within the flood plain of creeks and
swales, removing trees within creeks and other minor items of work involving
waterways.
   (E)   Improvement plan submittal.
      (1)   The initial submittal of improvement plans to the County Engineer
shall consist of the following:
         (a)   The following plans, calculations and supporting data, all in
duplicate:
            1.   Complete sets of plans and specifications, prepared in
accordance with these Improvement Standards and the Standard Specifications;
            2.   The watershed map and drainage calculations in accordance with
Article 3 of this chapter;
            3.   “R” value test results for the proposed streets; and
            4.   Design calculations for storm sewers, pumping plants,
structures, street lights, sanitary sewers, sewage treatment plant and water
distribution system. Note: Where the improvement plans are a portion of larger
development, a tentative plan or study plan for the ultimate development
showing the proposed improvements shall be submitted along with the plans.
         (b)   An itemized cost estimate shall be submitted for all projects.
The improvements to be included on the estimate are as follows:
            1.   All public facilities, including all improvements within the
street right-of-way and public improvements outside of the right-of-way that
are to be maintained by the county, and improvements required by subdivision
approval that are to be maintained by an owners association or service area);
            2.   All on-site and off-site storm drainage systems;
            3.   Earth excavation quantities;
            4.   Retaining and sound walls; and
            5.   Street lights.
         (c)   Plan check and inspection fee in accordance with division (G)
below;
         (d)   The name, address and telephone number of the developer; and
         (e)   Utility letters in accordance with division (P) below.
      (2)   Should there be required alternations or revisions to the plans as
submitted, the County Engineer will return one copy with the corrections marked
or indicated thereon. If the plans submitted are not prepared in accordance
with these improvement standards and the standard specifications are not in
keeping with the standards of the profession, the County Engineer may return
them unmarked and unapproved.
   (F)   Improvement plan resubmittal. Plans being resubmitted shall consist of
two complete sets of plans and any other submittals or supporting information
required by the County Engineer. Additional sets may be required by the County
Engineer.
   (G)   Plan check fee. When improvement plans are initially submitted to the
County Engineer for checking, the total plan check fee for the development will
be required before initiating the plan check.
   (H)   Plan approval. No plans will be approved nor construction authorized
until such time as the County Engineer signifies approval by their signature on
the set of plans and not unless the changes, corrections or additions are
resubmitted to the County Engineer for approval as previously prescribed for
the original plans. At such time as the Consulting Engineer preparing the plans
has made the necessary revisions and paid the remainder of the total plan check
and inspection fee, as provided under the provisions of amendments thereto has
been paid, the County Engineer will sign the originals in the space provided,
after the Consulting Engineer has signed them. The County Engineer’s approval
is valid for a period of 12 months. Should work not commence within the 12-
month period, the County Engineer may require the plans be resubmitted for
reapproval.
   (I)   Final plans required.
      (1)   The Consulting Engineer shall deliver the following number of sets
of prints from the approved originals to the County Engineer:
         (a)   Subdivisions: two complete print sets of plans and one set of
reproducibles.
         (b)   Other developments: two complete sets of plans.
      (2)   Additional copies of improvement plans may be requested by the
County Engineer at his or her discretion, and these shall be furnished to the
county without cost. Copies of the final utility letters required by division
(P) below shall be included with the approved plans delivered to the County
Engineer.
   (J)   Improvement plan revisions during construction.
      (1)   Should changes become necessary during construction, the consulting
engineer shall first obtain the consent of the County Engineer and shall then
resubmit the total sheet and the plan sheets affected for approval. The changes
on the plans shall be made in the following manner:
         (a)   The original proposal should not be eradicated from the plans
but should be lined out. In the event that eradicating the original proposal is
necessary to maintain clarity of the plans, approval must first be obtained
from the County Engineer.
         (b)   The changes shall be clearly shown on the plans with the changes
and approval noted on a revision signature block, conforming to county standard
drawing.
         (c)   The changes shall be identified by the revision number in a
triangle delineated on the plans adjacent to the change and on the revision
signature block.
      (2)   Minor changes that do not affect the basic design or contract may
be made upon the authorization of the County Engineer, but the changes must be
shown on “as-built” plans when the contract is completed.
      (3)   The County Engineer may order changes in the plans to complete the
necessary facilities. Changes in the plans ordered by the County Engineer shall
conform to all of the above.
   (K)   As-built plans.
      (1)   The consulting engineer shall keep an accurate record of all
approved deviations from the plans and shall provide a copy of these records to
the County Engineer upon completion of the work before final approval of the
completed improvements. These are to be utilized with the Inspector’s plans for
preparing a complete and accurate set of “as-built” plans for the permanent
records of the county. “As-built” preparation is the responsibility of the
developer and his, her or their consulting engineer. Accurate reproducible “as-
built” drawings shall be submitted to the County Engineer prior to acceptance
of finished work.
      (2)   Where applicable, certification by the consulting engineer of the
finished pad elevations of subdivision lots shall be required prior to final
approval of the subdivision improvements.
   (L)   Conflicts, errors and omissions. Excepted from approval are any
features of the plans that are contrary to, in conflict with, or do not conform
to any California state law, San Benito County Code or resolution, conditions
of approval or generally accepted good engineering practice, in keeping with
the standards of the profession, even though the errors, omissions or conflicts
may have been overlooked in the Department of Public Works’ review of the
plans.
   (M)   Change in consulting engineer.
      (1)   If the developer elects to have a registered civil engineer or
licensed land surveyor other than the engineer who prepared the plans provide
the construction staking, he, she or it shall provide the County Engineer in
writing the name of the individual or firm one week prior to the staking of the
project for construction. The developer shall then be responsible for providing
all professional engineering services that may be required during construction,
the preparation of revised plans for construction changes, and the preparation
of “as-built” plans upon completion of the construction.
      (2)   In the developer’s notification of a change in the firm providing
construction staking, they shall acknowledge that they accept responsibility
for design changes and “as-built” information as noted above.
   (N)   Utility district annexation requirements. When plans are submitted for
an area that is not within a utility district but is intended to be served by
the district, the plans will not be approved until a request for annexation to
the appropriate district has been initiated. Annexation request forms and
information relative to annexation fees are available from the affected
district.
   (O)   Tunnel safety requirements. Any boring or jacking operation of 100
foot or greater length and involving an opening greater than 18 inches in
diameter is subject to the State of California Division of Industrial Safety
tunnel safety requirements. The consulting engineer shall submit plans and
specifications applicable to the tunnel operation to the Division of Industrial
Safety, with a letter requesting tunnel classification. This procedure is also
recommended to avoid project delay if there is the possibility of any personnel
entering the tunnel, regardless of diameter and length. The letter should
identify the public works agency responsible for the project, and the agency’s
mailing address. The plans shall identify underground utilities and tanks or
areas for storing fuel and toxic gases in the vicinity of the tunnel site. The
request for classification should be submitted allowing ample time for the
Division of Industrial Safety review in order that any special requirements can
be included in the project plans and specifications. The consulting engineer
shall also attend the required pre-construction meeting.
   (P)   Existing utilities. All existing utilities are to be shown on the
plans. In addition, the consulting engineer shall submit prints of the
preliminary and approved plans to the utility companies involved. This is
necessary for the utilities to properly plan their relocation projects and
needed additional facilities. Copies of the transmittal letters to the utility
companies shall be provided to the County Engineer. The transmittal shall
indicate all known utility facility conflicts that require relocation. In
addition the following note shall appear on the first page of the plans: “No
pavement work shall occur within the road right-of-way prior to completion of
utility facility relocation.”
   (Q)   Partial plans. Where the improvement plans submitted cover only a
portion of ultimate development, the plans submitted shall be accompanied by
the approved tentative plan, or a study plan if there is no approved tentative
plan, showing topographic features of the ultimate development at an adequate
scale to clearly show the proposed improvements.
   (R)   Other agency notifications. The consulting engineer is responsible for
obtaining the approval and necessary permits of governmental or municipal
agencies when their facilities or jurisdictions are involved. An approval
signature block shall be on the cover sheet of the improvement plans and shall
be signed by all affected agencies prior to county approval.
   (S)   Inspection requirements.
      (1)   Any improvement constructed to the standard construction
specifications, for which it is intended that the county will assume
maintenance responsibility, shall be inspected during construction by the
County Engineer. Each phase of construction shall be inspected and approved
prior to proceeding to subsequent phases.
      (2)   Subdivision on-site grading and drainage shall be inspected during
construction by the County Engineer.
      (3)   The county shall be given advance three working days notice of
initial construction start-up and 48-hour notice of specialty inspection
requirements needed during the project; routine inspections shall require 24-
hour notice.
      (4)   Any improvements constructed without inspection as provided above
or constructed contrary to the order or instructions of the County Engineer
will be deemed as not complying with standard specifications and will not be
accepted by San Benito County for maintenance purposes, and may be cause for
issuance of a correction notice or stop work order.
      (5)   The consulting engineer shall provide the County Engineer with a
copy of all cut sheets.
      (6)   Within ten days after receiving the request for final inspection,
the County Engineer shall inspect the work. The contractor, consulting engineer
and developer will be notified in writing as to any particular defects or
deficiencies to be remedied. The contractor shall proceed to correct any such
defects or deficiencies at the earliest possible date. At such time as the work
has been completed, a second inspection shall be made by the County Engineer to
determine if the previously mentioned defects have been repaired, altered and
completed in accordance with the plans. At such time as the County Engineer
approves the work and accepts the work for San Benito County, the contractor,
consulting engineer and developer will be notified in writing as to the date of
final approval and acceptance.
      (7)   In assessment districts and for projects where San Benito County
participates in the costs thereof, quantities will be measured in the presence
of the County Engineer, consulting engineer and contractor, and witnessed
accordingly.
      (8)   The county will ensure that the provisions of the approved plans
and specifications are complied with, especially with regard to the quality of
workmanship and materials. In the event of any discrepancy or matter of
judgment, the decision of the Engineer or their authorized representative will
be binding on the contractor, design engineer and developer.
      (9)   All work shall be performed in accordance with accepted workmanship
practice and these improvement standards. Any work not accepted by the county
shall be redone until compliance with these improvement standards is achieved.
Orders given by the county relating to quality of materials and workmanship
shall be complied with promptly by the contractor.
      (10)   All materials used shall be subject to the inspection and approval
of the Department at all times and shall not be used before being inspected and
approved by the Inspector. The Department has the right to perform any testing
deemed necessary to ensure compliance of the materials with the materials
specifications. Failure or neglect on the part of the Department to condemn or
reject work or materials not in accordance with the materials specifications,
shall not be construed to imply their acceptance should their inferiority
become evident at any time. Materials rejected by the county shall be
immediately removed from the job site.
   (T)   Special notices and permits. The consulting engineer shall be
responsible for advising the contractor to give the following notices and have
in his, her or its possession the following permits and plans:
      (1)   The contractor shall be in possession of plans approved by the
County Engineer prior to construction.
      (2)   The contractor shall notify all utility companies involved in the
development prior to beginning of work.
      (3)   The contractor shall notify “Underground Service Alert” (phone 800-
642-2444) 48 hours in advance before any digging.
      (4)   The contractor shall be responsible for the protection of all
existing monuments and shall notify County Engineer of any damaged or removed
county, state or bureau monuments.
      (5)   The contractor shall notify “Utility District” upon application for
permit and payment of required fees for utility connections.
      (6)   The contractor shall verify all street names with County Engineer
before ordering street signs.
      (7)   The contractor shall be responsible for conducting their operation
entirely outside of any floodplain boundaries except work authorized under the
improvement plans. Floodplain boundaries shall be clearly delineated in the
field prior to construction.
      (8)   The contractor shall be responsible for conducting their operation
entirely outside of any “non-development” area. These areas shall be clearly
delineated in the field prior to construction.
      (9)   Where work is being done in an off-site easement, the contractor
shall notify the property owner 48 hours prior to commencing work.
   (U)   Minimum securities required.
      (1)   The securities shall be based on the engineer’s estimate approved
by the county. The purpose of the faithful performance and labor and materials
securities is to provide protection to the county for any expenses it may incur
as a result of any of the following:
         (a)   Failure by the contractor to complete the installation;
         (b)   Necessary repairs caused by poor installation techniques;
         (c)   Necessary repairs caused by the installation of defective
material;
         (d)   Failure by the contractor to perform in accordance with the
approved plans and specifications; or
         (e)   Labor and/or material liens against the county.
      (2)   The following must be provided to the county.
         (a)   Faithful performance security. Applicants shall provide the
county with an acceptable irrevocable letter of credit, or other suitable
financial guarantee acceptable to the county from a financial institution
authorized to do and doing business in the State of California. Faithful
performance security shall remain in effect until the project is accepted by
the county. The amount of faithful performance security shall be 100%. Release
of funds may be allowed as the work is performed, subject to approval of the
County Engineer.
         (b)   Labor and materials security. Applicants shall provide the
county with an acceptable irrevocable letter of credit, or other suitable
financial guarantee acceptable to the county from a financial institution
authorized to do and doing business in the State of California. Labor and
materials security may be released as allowed by Subdivision Map Act. The
amount of labor and materials security shall be 50%.
         (c)   Guarantee of workmanship, materials and equipment.
            1.   The applicant shall guarantee that the project installed by
the contractor (or applicant) be free from any and all liens and encumbrances
and free from any and all defects in materials and workmanship for a period of
one year after final acceptance by the county. This guarantee shall be security
for an amount of 10% of Engineer’s estimate, or other amount determined by the
county, beginning at the date of final acceptance of the project by the county.
The county may make or cause to be made any necessary repairs and charge the
security, or may direct the applicant to perform or cause the corrective work.
            2.   The contractors performing work for the applicant shall be
competent with adequate manpower and equipment to accomplish the work in
accordance with the approved plans and specifications and licensed in the State
of California. A representative of the applicant or the contractor shall be
present at the job site whenever work is being conducted by subcontractors.
         (d)   Monument security. Monument security shall be provided in the
amount set by the County Engineer for monuments to be set following map
recordation.
§ 23.31.003 PREPARATION OF IMPROVEMENT PLANS.
   (A)   Plan paper. All improvement plans shall be prepared on plan and
profile sheets 24" x 36", F.A.S. sheets, Plate “A” plan and profile paper, or
special consulting engineer’s sheets that have been accepted by the county.
Scales: Horizontal 1" = 20', 40' or 50'; Vertical 1" = 2, 4' or 5', but only
the scale, horizontal or vertical, for which the sheet was intended shall be
used.
   (B)   Title sheet.
      (1)   On subdivision or improvement plans exceeding three sheets in a
set, a title sheet shall be prepared showing the following:
         (a)   *The entire subdivision or parcel and project;
         (b)   Assessment district limits;
         (c)   County and city limits;
         (d)   Street names;
         (e)   Adjacent subdivisions, including names;
         (f)   Property lines;
         (g)   *Location map;
         (h)   Scale of drawings;
         (i)   *Index of sheets;
         (j)   Legend of symbols;
         (k)   *Signature block conforming to approved standard drawing and
situated at the lower right-hand corner of the sheet; and
         (l)   *Benchmark and temporary benchmark descriptions.
      (2)   *Shall be shown on the front sheet of encroachment sketch and plan
sets consisting of three or less sheets.
      (3)   Improvement plans consisting of three or less sheets and
encroachment plans shall not be required to provide a title sheet but shall be
required to show all of the above in the plans.
   (C)   Title block.
      (1)   Each sheet within the set of drawings shall have an approved title
block showing the sheet title, number, date, scale and the consulting
engineer’s name, signature and license number; the name of the county
maintenance water agency or sanitation district, when applicable; the name of
the subdivision or assessment district; and the benchmark description of
reference to benchmark description on the title sheet.
      (2)   The preferred location is across the right hand end of the sheets.
This will facilitate the common method of plan storage by allowing the plan
information to be viewed with plans rolled up.
   (D)   Line weights. Line weights shall be selected to offer a variety of
intensities with affected water mains and fire hydrants, both old and new,
utilizing the boldest weight. Existing utilities shall be dashed, proposed
shall be solid. Next in importance are street property or right-of-way lines
which shall be of medium weight. The lightest line weight shall be used for
centerlines, lot lines, curb lines, substructures, unaffected facilities,
dimension lines and call outlines. If service information is shown, medium
weight line shall be used.
   (E)   Lettering. Lettering shall be uppercase, vertical or slanted, with
size and weight appropriate to the size and the importance of the text.
Lettering height shall be a minimum of one-eighth inch. Street names shall be
the largest size. The next smaller size shall be used for work order numbers,
centerline designations, major street widths, pipe activity instructions and
material items. The smallest sized letters shall be used for substructure
identification, informational notes, curb locations and similar information.
The importance of the information to be conveyed by the words or symbols shall
determine the letter size and the boldness of the text.
   (F)   Drainage, sewer, water and grading layout.
      (1)   On all plans, the storm drainage, sanitary sewer and domestic water
systems shall be shown on an overall plan layout. In addition, the storm
drainage and sanitary sewer systems shall be shown on the street plans.
Separate grading plans will be required for all subdivisions. On all other
plans, an overall plan layout will not be required but the above facilities
shall be shown within the development and on the street plans.
      (2)   All plans showing the domestic water systems shall include
signature blocks and be approved by the responsible water and fire districts
and for encroachment approval by the County Engineer. The signature block shall
conform to approved standard drawing and shall be situated near the lower right
hand corner of the first sheet of the water plans.
      (3)   Where wells are included as a part of the water system, the layout
of the well site shall be drawn to a scale no smaller than one inch to ten
feet, with the layout covering an area at least 50 feet in all directions from
the well location.
   (G)   Plan details. The following details and supplemental information shall
be shown on all plans submitted for approval:
      (1)   Right-of-way. Right-of-way lines, the boundaries of lots fronting
on the street, drainage easements, utility easements, planting easements,
section lines and corners, land grant lines and temporary construction
easements, both existing and proposed, shall be shown on the plans. All right-
of-way and easement lines shall be properly dimensioned.
      (2)   Topography. All pertinent topographic features shall be shown, such
as street lines, medians, driveways (on both sides of the street when within 40
feet of the median ending), curbs, sidewalks, shoulders, location and size of
storm and sanitary sewer lines, high water and frequent inundation levels,
water lines, gas lines, telephone conduits, other underground utilities,
existing structures, houses, streets, trees nine-inch diameter and larger, and
other foliage, traffic signals, street lights and pullboxes, underground
electrical conduits, drainage ditches, utility poles, fire hydrants, retaining
walls, masonry structures and all other features of the area which may affect
the design requirements for the area. When a potential utility conflict exists,
“as-built” elevations of the utilities shall be verified by the consulting
engineer.
      (3)   Contours and elevations. Existing contours or supporting elevations
shall be shown on all plans.
      (4)   Profiles.
         (a)   The plans shall show the existing profile of all roadway
centerline, edges of pavement or curb and gutter flow lines, drainage ditches,
storm and sanitary sewers, water lines and utility facilities.
         (b)   The plans shall show the existing ground profile for a minimum
distance of 200 feet beyond temporary street endings to facilitate setting
proper vertical alignment within the proposed improvement limits. The 200-foot
minimum shall be increased when requested by the County Engineer.
         (c)   All profiles of proposed improvements shall state centerline
elevations at 50- foot intervals and rate of grades, vertical curves and other
vertical alignment data. When curb and gutters are designed for reconstructed
county roads, elevations shall be shown at the edge of the outside traveled
way, or if the road has a full paved section, shall also be shown two feet from
the proposed lip of gutter. Any warped surface and vertical curve shall set
elevations at 25-foot intervals. All profiles shall be coordinated with county
stationing; the consulting engineer shall contact the county for the
stationing.
         (d)   Grading plans shall show final grades for all grading proposals.
      (5)   Stationing and orientation. Plans shall be so arranged that the
north arrow points toward the top or upper 180 degrees, insofar as practical.
The beginning and ending stations shall be shown for all street and utility
centerlines.
      (6)   Cut and fills. Top of cut and toe of fill shall be shown on the
plan view.
      (7)   Benchmarks. The benchmarks and datum shall be clearly delineated on
the plans both as to location, description and elevations. The datum shall be
the 1929 National Geodetic Vertical Datum (NGVD29). After 1995, the datum shall
be the North American Vertical Datum (NAVD89). Consulting engineers shall
contact the Department for location and elevation of the nearest official
benchmark.
      (8)   California coordinate system. The County Engineer may require that
the proposed improvements be tied into the California Coordinate System if
monumented coordinate points are available within a reasonable distance of the
improvement as determined by the County Engineer.
      (9)   Typical sections. A typical section for each type of facility
within the improvement, setting out the structural features, shall be a part of
the plans.
      (10)   Cross sections. Cross sections shall be included in the plans,
where determined necessary by the County Engineer. When, in limited area,
unusual topographic features or special conditions occur that would affect the
work, individual cross sections may be shown on the pertinent plan sheet.
      (11)   Special notes. Special notes shall be clearly indicated, and it
shall be conspicuously noted on the plans that all construction work and
installations shall conform to the county improvement standards and that all
work is subject to the approval of the County Engineer. Notes shall contain a
statement regarding obtaining encroachment permits from other agencies when
applicable.
      (12)   Detail sheets.
         (a)   All detail drawings shall be drawn to scale unless otherwise
noted.
         (b)   Any detail drawings included in these design standards that are
required of the project can be referenced by the standard drawing number unless
modifications are to be made. If modifications are to be made, the modified
detail shall be included in the improvement plans.
         (c)   Any detail drawings from the CALTRANS Standard Plans that may be
required for the project shall be reproduced and included in the improvement
plans.
      (13)   Water system plans. Water system plans shall contain the following
information:
         (a)   Water main in plan view showing:
            1.   Location and dimensions of dedicated streets and easement;
            2.   Lots to be served;
            3.   All existing or proposed curbs, gutters and pavement;
            4.   The proposed alignment of the water main and the location of
all proposed distribution system facilities such as valves, fire hydrants,
fittings and the like;
            5.   All existing and proposed substructure utilities; and
            6.   All existing and proposed obstructions such as vaults, catch
basins, traffic islands and the like.
         (b)   Top of pipe profile for all pipes installed in non-paved
easement areas showing:
            1.   Finished grade;
            2.   Existing ground line; and
            3.   All proposed and existing utility crossings.
         (c)   Details showing all unusual proposed and existing utility
crossings.
         (d)   Additionally, all plans shall:
            1.   Show the approved permanent water source that cart supply
sufficient water for chlorination, flushing and hydrostatic testing; and
            2.   Show sufficient adjacent area to give the relation of new
facilities to existing facilities.
ARTICLE II. ROADWAY DESIGN STANDARDS
§ 23.31.020 GENERAL.
   (A)   General requirements.
      (1)   Scope. The design and construction of public and private roadways,
alleys, driveways, bike paths and all associated appurtenances such as
sidewalks, curbs, street lights, signs, barriers and the like in all
unincorporated areas of the county, shall be in accordance with these minimum
design standards, except as modified in any adopted specific plan.
      (2)   Interpretation. The County Engineer shall be the final authority in
any and all questions regarding the interpretation of these design standards,
unless otherwise specified by adopted plan line.
      (3)   Enforcement. Enforcement of these standards shall be by the County
Engineer.
   (B)   Definitions. Unless otherwise provided in this chapter, the following
definitions shall be used in interpreting the provisions of this chapter.
      ACCESS. The right of an owner of land to go and return from his or her
own land to a public road.
      ALLEY. A secondary means of access to property and is located at the rear
or side of the property.
      BICYCLE WAY. An area either within or outside the right-of-way of a
dedicated street where bicycle travel is the designated use.
      COUNTY MAINTAINED ROAD. A road for which the county has accepted rights-
of-way and maintenance responsibilities.
      CUL-DE-SAC STREET. A road open to motor vehicle use at one end only, with
special provisions for turning around, and the further extension of which is
precluded by the land division design.
      EASEMENT. The right to use another’s property. EASEMENTS are usually over
a defined area and for a specific use such as public utilities facilities,
drainage, sewers or access.
      FRONTAGE ROAD or SERVICE ROAD. A road immediately adjacent to freeways,
expressways or arterials. These roads provides access to local properties that
would otherwise front on the freeways, expressways or arterials.
      MEDIAN. That portion of a divided highway separating the traveled way for
traffic in opposite directions. A MEDIAN may be raised, landscaped or painted.
      PARKWAY. The area adjoining the outer edge of the roadbed, extending to
the right-of-way line in which sidewalks, plantings, utilities, bank slopes and
related facilities may be located.
      PART-WIDTH ROAD. Any street in which the improved width is less than the
width necessary for a normal full-width street.
      PEDESTRIAN WAY. A right-of-way designed for use by pedestrians and not
intended for use by motor vehicles of any kind. A PEDESTRIAN WAY may be located
within or outside of street right-of-way, at grade or grade separated from
vehicular traffic.
      PRIVATE RIGHTS-OF-WAY. Any of the following:
         (a)   Any right-of-way that has been offered for dedication, but has
not been accepted by the county;
         (b)   A legally established private easement for access;
         (c)   A navigable waterway;
         (d)   Roads shown on antiquated subdivision plats that are not county
maintained roads; and
         (e)   Public roads for which there is no legally established right-of-
way or easement.
      PRIVATE STREET/ROAD. A roadway within a private development or a planned
residential development whereby the street improvements remain in private
ownership.
      PUBLIC ROAD. Any road which is open for unrestricted travel by the
general public. A PUBLIC ROAD may or may not be dedicated to or maintained by
the county.
      RESTRICTED ACCESS. The right of vehicular access has been dedicated to
the county. A property owner no longer has a right to go to and from his or her
property by vehicle over a right-of-way line which has restricted access.
      RIGHT-OF-WAY. An easement for the use of roads, water and waste water
facilities, flood and  drainage works, overhead and underground utilities or
any related improvements.
      ROAD. Includes streets and highways, both public and private. The terms
streets, road, roadways and highways are used interchangeably. ROAD includes
the roadbed, all slopes, shoulders, side ditches, curb, gutters, sidewalks and
all other related facilities with the right-of-way.
      ROAD SYSTEM. The classification of streets and highways by their diverse
functions and design. The hierarchy of roads in the county and additional
definitions of road classifications are shown in §
23.31.021.
      ROADBED. That portion of the road between curb-faces or between the
outside line of improved shoulders.
      STUB STREET. A street open at one end only, without provisions for
turning around.
      TRAVELED-WAY. That portion of the road for the movement of vehicles,
exclusive of shoulders and auxiliary lanes.
   (C)   Other standards. It is recognized that it is not humanly possible to
set rigid design standards for every possible design situation that may be
encountered. When the situations arise, design of roadway improvements shall
adhere to sound engineering principals and good civil engineering practice.
State of California Department of Transportation references titled Manual of
Traffic and Highway Design Manual may be used for guidance. In all cases, final
approval of any design is left to the discretion of the County Engineer.
   (D)   Access required. All parcels in a development project shall have
access to a county maintained road either directly or by private right-of-way
or easement offered for dedication to the county. The use of private right-of-
way or easement for access shall be approved by the Planning Commission or
County Engineer.
   (E)   Improvement required. The developer shall improve all roads that are a
part of the development project or are required to serve the development
project in accordance with the requirements of this chapter. Roads must be
dedicated to the county. For a building permit, all projects along existing
roads shall construct road improvements on the project side of the roadway
along the parcel frontage as required to meet county standard road sections.
Private roads shall be developed to public road standards.
(Ord. 860, § 4 (part), 2010)
§ 23.31.021 STREET TYPES.
   (A)   Common private driveway.
      (1)   A secondary access street with improved 30 foot minimum right-of-
way;
      (2)   Private maintenance;
      (3)   Common private driveways in commercial and industrial areas shall
only be allowed with the specific approval of the Planning Commission and the
County Engineer; and
      (4)   Where new development adjoins an existing common private driveway,
improvement to the driveway shall be required if not to county standards.
   (B)   Bicycle way.
      (1)   “Bicycle way” and “bike path” are used interchangeably. Typical
width for a separated bike path is a eight-foot improved surface in a 20-foot
dedicated easement, the remainder being landscaped according to a landscaping
plan approved by the County Engineer.
      (2)   Where road right-of-way widening is required in lieu of separated
bike paths, an additional 12-foot dedicated width is required with two paved
six-foot bike ways provided, one for each direction of travel.
      (3)   On-street bike lanes shall be delineated with special marking,
striping and signage as required by the County Engineer.
      (4)   Off-street bike paths shall be delineated with special marking,
striping and signage as required by the County Engineer.
   (C)   Cul-de-sac.
      (1)   Cul-de-sac roads shall be two-lane undivided roads with
intersections at grade.
      (2)   Driveway access to abutting properties is allowed.
   (D)   Residential (through).
      (1)   Through residential roads shall be two lane undivided roads with
intersections at grade.
      (2)   Driveway access to abutting residential lots is allowed.
   (E)   Collector non-access.
      (1)   Collector non-access shall be two-lane undivided roads with
intersections at grade, designed to take a minimum interference of traffic from
driveways.
      (2)   Parking not allowed on street. Widening of the right-of-way for
turn lanes at major intersections shall be provided.
   (F)   Collector-access.
      (1)   Collector-access shall be undivided four-lane roads with
intersections at grade and partial control of access.
      (2)   On street parking may be allowed in urban or suburban areas.
Widening of the right-of-way for turn lanes at major intersections shall be
provided.
      (3)   Access from abutting single-family residential properties is
prohibited. Access from commercial, industrial and multi-family properties may
be allowed with approval of access design by the County Engineer.
   (G)   Arterials.
      (1)   Arterials shall be four- or six-lane divided roads with
intersections at grade and partial control of access.
      (2)   Major arterials require widening for turn lanes at major
intersections. On-street parking is prohibited.
      (3)   Access to abutting properties is prohibited except commercial or
industrial zoned properties may be allowed access subject to design approval of
the County Engineer. Direct access is prohibited from abutting residential
zoned properties.
   (H)   Expressways.
      (1)   Expressways shall provide no direct access to abutting properties.
Intersections are limited to freeways, major and minor arterials and rural
collector roads only. Intersections closer than one- quarter mile prohibited.
      (2)   Expressways may be two-lane or multi-lane undivided highways in
rural areas or multi-lane divided highways in urban areas at the discretion of
the County Engineer.
      (3)   A minimum standard right-of-way shall be required plus additional
widening for turn lanes at intersections. On street parking is prohibited.
   (I)   Freeways.
      (1)   Freeways shall be multi-lane divided highways with no direct access
to abutting properties and have grade separations at intersections.
Intersections are only allowed with freeways, expressways, arterials or rural
roads.
      (2)   Specific design standards, right-of-way width requirements and
required appurtenances shall be determined by the County Engineer on a case by
case basis.
§ 23.31.022 TRAFFIC STUDIES.
   (A)   Responsibility.
      (1)   The county will prepare or contract for preparation of any traffic
studies. When submitted by the applicant, the study shall be reviewed by an
independent consultant hired by the county or the county itself, and paid by
the applicant through the county.
      (2)   The developer shall deposit with the county funds for all costs
prior to county preparing any required traffic studies.
   (B)   When required.
      (1)   Unless waived by the County Engineer, the county shall prepare a
written traffic study for a development project when traffic caused by the
development project is expected to exceed 50 trip ends during any day.
      (2)   (a)   At the request of the County Engineer, the county shall
prepare a written traffic study for a development project when traffic caused
by the development project is expected to be less than 50 trip ends during any
day.
         (b)   If traffic is less than 50 trip ends during any day, a traffic
study will not normally be prepared unless there are special extenuating
circumstances, such as traffic safety concerns.
   (C)   Supplemental study required. The county may prepare a supplemental
traffic study if, after preparing an original traffic study for any development
project, the property use is changed so that total trip generation is increased
by more than 15%.
   (D)   Content. To provide consistency and facilitate review, the following
format shall be followed for organizing information gathered, traffic
assumptions, analysis, findings and mitigation measures:
      (1)   Introduction;
      (2)   Existing circulation system;
      (3)   Existing traffic conditions;
      (4)   Trip generation;
      (5)   Trip distribution and assignment;
      (6)   Traffic impacts;
      (7)   Cumulative traffic conditions;
      (8)   Cumulative impacts; and
      (9)   Mitigation measures.
§ 23.31.023 DESIGN STANDARDS.
   (A)   Soil report required. All public and private roadway designs shall be
based on the results of a soil investigation performed by a registered
geotechnical engineer or a registered civil engineer with expertise in soil
investigation. The report will address roadbed foundation conditions, grading
considerations, slope stability (for slopes in excess of 15%) and special
conditions expected, such as highly organic or soft soil or shallow bedrock,
which may affect design or construction. The report shall specifically
determine the design resistance (“R”) value of native materials at the proposed
subgrade elevation to allow proper design of the roadbed structural section.
   (B)   Structural section.
      (1)   Thickness.
         (a)   All roadway designs shall be based on the recommendations of the
required soil report. The thickness of the structural section elements shall be
determined from the structural pavement design chart in the standard plans.
         (b)   A minimum asphalt concrete (A.C.) thickness of two inches shall
be used on all streets except collectors, arterials and expressways where the
minimum A.C. thickness shall be three inches.
      (2)   Traffic indexes (T.I.). Traffic indexes shall be determined in the
traffic report or as required by the County Engineer. The following minimum
shall apply:
 T.I.
                        T.I.
Common private driveway 3.0
Cul-de-sac or loop      4.0
Local residential       4.5
Collector-non access    5.0
Collector with access   6.0
Arterial                7.0
Expressway              8.0
Freeway                 Per CALTRANS
 
   (C)   Design speed.
      (1)   Design of all roads shall be consistent with the speeds expected
and shall follow the recommendation of the traffic report. The following speeds
shall be the minimum allowed for road design:
Classification Minimum Design Speed
Classification                   Minimum Design Speed
Common-private drive             10 mph
Cul-de-sac                       20 mph
Local/residential through street 30 mph
Collector                        40 mph
Rural road                       50 mph
Arterial                         60 mph
Expressway                       70 mph
Freeway                          Per CALTRANS
 
      (2)   The County Engineer may require higher design speeds at locations
where higher speeds may occur.
   (D)   Horizontal layout.
      (1)   Intersection offsets. Streets located on opposite sides of an
intersecting street shall have their centerlines directly opposite each other,
otherwise the centerlines shall be separated by not less than 150 feet for
local roads and 300 feet for collectors. Arterials and expressways shall be
intersected only by collectors or higher classification roadways and only at
intervals acceptable to the County Engineer.
      (2)   Continuation of existing streets. New subdivision streets that are
continuations of existing streets shall be aligned so that their centerlines
coincide. In cases where straight continuations are not physically possible,
centerlines shall be continued by curves.
      (3)   Horizontal curves.
         (a)   Minimum curve radii. The minimum centerline curve radii, except
where physical conditions make compliance impractical, shall be as follows:
 Minimum Centerline Radius
                                 Minimum Centerline Radius
Expressways                      2,400
Arterials                        1,800
Collectors-access                1,200
Collectors-non access            1,200
Local/residential-through street 300
Residential cul-de-sacs          100
Common private driveway          60
 
         (b)   Tangent length between curves. The minimum tangent length
between reversing curves shall be 250 feet for expressways, 150 feet for
arterials and collectors and 100 feet for all other classifications, except 50
feet for private drives or as approved by the County Engineer. Broken back
curves are not allowed.
         (c)   Compound curves. The use of compound curves should be avoided
where possible. Where special topography or other conditions exist, the use
shall be as approved by the County Engineer.
      (4)   Corner radii. The corner property line, curb line and edge of
pavement radii at street intersections shall be as follows:
 
Type of Intersection   Required Radius Ft.
Cul-de-sac and local   20
Collectors             25
Arterial or expressway 35
The highest classification of the intersecting roads shall govern.
 
      (5)   Intersection angle. Streets shall intersect at an angle as near to
90 degrees as practical and not less than 80 degrees. The central angle on the
property line corner curve of adjacent corners shall be within ten degrees of
each other. Intersections shall be designed on tangent sections at least 50
feet beyond the right-of-ways for the intersecting roads.
      (6)   Cul-de-sac streets. Cul-de-sac streets may be allowed as follows:
         (a)   Maximum length. Cul-de-sac streets shall not exceed the lengths
specified herein. In no case shall more than 50 dwelling units be served by a
cul-de-sac street.
         (b)   Turnaround. Cul-de-sac streets shall be terminated by an
improved turnaround having a minimum right-of-way radius of 50 feet.
         (c)   Alternate turnaround. Hammerheads, loops, offset bulbs and other
geometric designs may only be used under special circumstances and only with
the approval of the County Engineer.
      (7)   Sight distance at intersections. Streets shall not be designed with
intersections on the inside of curves or at any location in general where sight
distance will be inadequate for drivers to tell if they can safely enter the
traffic flow or cross the street. The minimum distance from an intersection to
a curve shall be determined according to the California Department of
Transportation Highway Design Manual. Exceptions may be made by the County
Engineer for especially difficult design circumstances only if visibility
easements to provide adequate sight distances are established. In lieu of
visibility easements, additional street right-of-way may be dedicated.
      (8)   Horizontal sight distance.
         (a)   Where objects that may obstruct a driver’s vision are adjacent
to the roadway, the design of horizontal curves shall be such as to attain the
required stopping site distance as set forth in the California Department of
Transportation Highway Design Manual, latest edition.
         (b)   Where a driveway or roadway intersects a roadway with a curved
centerline, a limited use area, clear of obstructions, including parking,
landscaping walls and structures, shall be maintained for sight distance. The
areas shall be delineated on the improvements plans and restricted by map
provisions or by deeds.
   (E)   Profile standards.
      (1)   Minimum grades. The minimum grade in all streets shall be 0.25 %.
This minimum may be reduced to 0.20% around the outside of horizontal curves.
Flowline grades in cul-de-sac shall be maintained at a minimum of 0.25%. These
restrictions do not refer to centerline grades of vertical curves. Curb and
gutter elevations on vertical curves shall be adjusted to meet a 0.25% minimum
grade. Where matching existing conditions, minimum grade may be reduced only
with the approval of the County Engineer.
      (2)   Cross slopes. The standard cross slope shall be 2%. For street
widening projects, the minimum cross slope shall be 1.5% and the maximum cross
slope shall be 3%. Superelevated sections may deviate from this section. The
cross slope of a street widening project shall match the cross slope of the
existing pavement whenever possible. Road widening cross-slope must equal or
exceed cross-slope of existing, or overlay to a constant cross-slope will be
required.
      (3)   Vertical curves.
         (a)   Required. Vertical curves shall be required whenever the
algebraic difference of grades is 1% or greater for local streets and 0.5% or
greater for collectors, arterials, expressways and rural roads.
         (b)   Minimum length. The minimum length of vertical curves shall be
determined by consideration of passing and stopping distance requirements,
headlight sight distance, drainage control and aesthetic appearance. Where
other considerations do not govern the minimum length of the vertical curve for
collectors, arterials and expressways, shall be L=AV2/46.5 at sags and L=AV2/
150 at crests, where A is the algebraic difference in grades in percent divided
by 100 and V is the design speed in miles per hour. In no case shall less than
100 feet be used.
      (4)   Stopping sight distance. The minimum stopping sight distance shall
be measured from a point three and one-half feet above the pavement surface
(assumed height of driver’s eyes) to a point one-half feet above the pavement
(assumed object height). Minimum distances are as follows:
Recommended Design Speed Minimum Stopping Sight Distance
Recommended Design Speed Minimum Stopping Sight Distance
10 mph                   50 feet
20 mph                   125 feet
30 mph                   200 feet
40 mph                   300 feet
50 mph                   430 feet
60 mph                   580 feet
70 mph                   750 feet
 
      (5)   Intersections. Profile of intersecting streets shall have a maximum
slope of 3% within 50 feet of the curb line of the intersection. Variations to
this requirement may be approved by the County Engineer for unusually steep
terrain or other extenuating circumstances.
   (F)   Curb, gutter and sidewalk.
      (1)   Curb, gutter and sidewalk is required in urban and suburban
residential areas (minimum lot size less than five acres).
      (2)   Curb, gutter and sidewalk in commercial or industrial areas shall
conform to conditions of development approval.
      (3)   Curb, gutter and sidewalk on arterials and expressways may be
required in urban and suburban areas.
      (4)   Cross gutters are not allowed on any road except local residential
roads with the approval of the County Engineer. The developer shall submit
evidence that the intersection cannot reasonable be drained to an underground
system before cross gutter will be considered.
      (5)   Median curbs may be constructed using modified type B curb.
      (6)   Barrier curbs may be required by the County Engineer at such
locations as deemed necessary to control drainage, delineate traveled ways,
provide for safe pedestrian and vehicular passage and the like. Where required,
barrier curbs shall conform to Type A1-6 of the California Department of
Transportation Standard Plans.
      (7)   Handicapped ramps shall be constructed at all curb returns in
residential and commercial areas and at such other locations required by the
County Engineer. Ramps shall conform to standard drawing.
      (8)   Sidewalk widths shall be measured from face of curb to back of
walk. Minimum widths shall be per applicable standard drawing.
      (9)   Sidewalk widening may be required at the discretion of the County
Engineer in areas such as school zones, local commercial areas, bus stops,
rural postal drop boxes, near bicycle ways and trails or other areas deemed
appropriate. Where sidewalk widening is required, the County Engineer shall
give width, length and transition requirements.
      (10)   In special situations with the approval of the County Engineer,
sidewalks may be separated from the curb and gutter by a landscaping strip. The
developer shall submit complete detail of proposed dimensions and landscaping.
   (G)   Driveways. Driveway design shall conform to approved standard
drawings.
   (H)   Sound barrier design.
      (1)   Location requirements. Sound barriers may be required along the
rear and side property lines of residential developments adjacent to limited
access roads and other ground level noise elements to achieve the noise control
objectives of the county’s general plan noise element or conditions of
development approval.
      (2)   Sound study. When it appears to the County Engineer that a sound
barrier may be necessary or when a sound barrier is a condition of development,
a sound study prepared by an acoustical consultant shall be submitted to the
Department of Public Works before the improvement plans will be approved by the
County Engineer. The sound study shall include a recommended height and
termination points for the sound barrier including all backup material leading
to the recommendations.
      (3)   Design.
         (a)   The sound barrier shall be designed to conform to levels in the
general plan at the affected building setback line or as required by the
Department.
         (b)   The County Engineer may approve new sound barriers upon request.
The request shall include plan details and calculations prepared and signed by
an appropriate consulting engineer.
         (c)   Sound barriers shall be designed for a minimum service life of
30 years.
         (d)   Sound barriers normally will not be allowed within public
rights-of-way.
      (4)   Plan requirements. All construction details for sound barriers,
including the locations and limits, shall be shown on the site improvement
plans.
   (I)   Survey monuments.
      (1)   Required locations. The developer shall place permanent survey
monuments at the locations shown on standard drawings.
      (2)   Map Act compliance required. Qualifications of persons setting
monuments, ties to nearby permanent objects and preparation of all required
maps to be recorded shall rigidly adhere to the requirements of the State of
California Subdivision Map Act, Land Surveyors Act and Professional Engineers
Act.
      (3)   Protection of existing monuments. All improvement plans shall
contain a note stating that the contractor is responsible to preserve and
protect all existing survey monuments or other survey markers. Any monuments,
damaged, displaced, obliterated or lost shall be re-established or replaced by
persons authorized to practice land surveying at the contractor’s sole expense.
   (J)   Signage.
      (1)   Barricades. Barricades shall be required at the end of the paved
section (or traveled way for non-paved street) of all terminating streets.
Barricades shall comply with standard drawing.
      (2)   Street names.
         (a)   All street names for new streets shall be named by the developer
subject to the approval of the Communications Department. Duplicate names, near
duplicate and phonetically similar names to street names already in use shall
not be allowed. Names with more than 13 letters are not allowed.
         (b)   To the extent possible, extensions of existing streets or
streets that will in the future be part of a planned existing street extension,
shall have the same name as the existing street.
         (c)   Street names and street name sign locations shall appear on
plans submitted for approval. Sign details shall be as shown on standard
drawing.
      (3)   Street sign locations.
         (a)   Minor intersections. One street name sign installation [with two
sign plates (four faces) on each post] is required at each intersection where
each intersecting street has a right-of-way width of less than 84 feet. At a
four-way intersection, the installation shall be located on one of the far
right-hand corners of the intersection relative to the street having the
greater right-of-way width or relative to the more important street if the
right-of-way widths are equal.
         (b)   Major intersections. Two street name sign installations [with
four sign plates (four faces) on each post] are required at each intersection
where one or both of the intersecting streets has a right-of-way width of 84
feet or greater. At a four-way intersection, the installation shall be located
on both far right hand corners of the intersection relative to the street
having the greater right-of-way width or relative to the more important street
if right-of-way widths are equal.
         (c)   Asymmetric intersections. For asymmetric intersections, or for
expressways, arterials and freeways, street sign location shall be determined
by the County Engineer.
         (4)   Traffic signs. Traffic signs, including warning signs,
information signs, speed limit signs and the like shall be installed for all
streets as required by the County Engineer. Signage shall conform to the
requirements of standard details. Where required signs are not detailed in the
standard drawings, California Department of Transportation Traffic Manual,
Highway Design Manual and Manual of Uniform Traffic Control Devices (MUTCD)
shall be used for guidance on sign size, shape, lettering and location, subject
to the approval of the County Engineer.
   (K)   Striping and marking. Design of pavement striping and marker placement
shall be in accordance with State of California Department of Transportation
Traffic Manual and MUTCD subject to the approval of the County Engineer.
   (L)   Bridges and overpasses.
      (1)   Bridges and overpasses spanning 20 feet or more shall have their
structural elements designed by an Engineer with appropriate registration who
shall obtain the approval of the County Engineer for all design assumptions.
      (2)   The design width of overpasses and bridges shall be the full width
of the right-of-way unless narrower widths are approved by the County Engineer.
      (3)   Bridges over water courses shall be designed such that a three-foot
freeboard is provided between the 100-year design flow water surface elevation
and the lowest portion of the bridge span. Detailed hydrologic and hydraulic
calculations shall be submitted by a Registered Civil Engineer to document the
100-year water surface elevation.
      (4)   The geometric design on bridges and the approaches on either side
shall consider the potential for bridge icing during extreme weather
conditions, particularly in higher elevation areas of the county. Curved
alignments should be avoided.
   (M)   Street lights.
      (1)   When required.
         (a)   Street lights shall be required whenever the County Engineer
deems them necessary to provide vehicular safety during hours of darkness. In
general, street lights are required in urban and suburban areas, at local
street intersections, along collectors, local commercial and industrial roads
and minor arterials. Expressways, major arterials and freeways shall have
special lighting considerations at turning pockets, intersections and
interchanges.
         (b)   Street lights are generally not required in rural areas along
rural roads except at intersections or at the direction of the County Engineer.
      (2)   Relocation. Existing street lights that must be relocated,
repositioned or reconfigured as a result of construction of new streets,
widening of existing streets or construction of driveways into a development
shall be the responsibility of the developer.
      (3)   Utility company authorization. A written notice from the serving
utility company stating that line clearances and service requirements have been
checked and are adequate shall be submitted to the County Engineer for all
developments.
      (4)   Luminaries. The type of street light and the appropriate wattage
shall be specified on the plans. Luminaries shall be high pressure sodium type
with internal ballast unless otherwise specified by the County Engineer.
      (5)   Existing utility-owned poles.
         (a)   Where there are existing or planned utility owned poles adjacent
to the roadway, street light installation must be coordinated with the utility
company. Whenever possible street lights should be installed on existing
utility poles, and planned street light locations may be adjusted up to 25 feet
to use an existing utility pole.
         (b)   In the Pacific Gas and Electric Company (PG&E) service area, the
developer shall arrange with PG&E to install PG&E owned and maintained street
lights on PG&E poles in accordance with current utility rate schedules.
      (6)   Design standards. Street lighting shall be designed in accordance
with these standards, the construction specifications and the American National
Standards Institute, “American National Standard Practice for Roadway
Lighting”.
      (7)   Calculations required. All data and calculations supporting the
street light design and location shall be submitted to the County Engineer for
review with the improvement plans.
ARTICLE III. STORM DRAINAGE DESIGN STANDARDS
§ 23.31.040 DESIGN STORM.
   (A)   Storm frequency generally. The storm frequency to be used in drainage
system design will be the storm frequency applicable for the design point under
consideration. The following guidelines give a general rule for determining
applicable design storm frequency.
   (B)   Frequency determined by Engineer. The actual storm frequency used will
be specified at the discretion of the Engineer.
      (1)   Ten-year storm. The drainage system for the ten-year storm is to be
designed to minimize inconvenience, protect against minor damage and reduce
maintenance costs. Improvements to be designed for the ten-year storm shall
generally include on-site and non-sump conditions and local drainage facilities
for residential, commercial, office and industrial development. This will
almost always include all on-site closed conduit design and minor channel
sections.
      (2)   Twenty-five-year storm. Twenty-five- year storm is required for
sump conditions in the public right-of-way.
      (3)   One hundred-year storm. The drainage system for the 100-year storm
is to be designed to protect against loss of life or substantial property
damage. Improvements requiring 100-year design capacity are channels, detention
ponds and retention basins. Major channels and closed conduit systems shall
also meet the requirements for the 100-year storm as specified in these
standards.
§ 23.31.041 DESIGN STORM RUNOFF.
   (A)   Rational formula.
      (1)   The rational formula shall be used to determine the peak flow rate
for the design storm:
         Q = CIA where         Formula 2.1
         (a)   Q = peak rate of flow in cubic feet per second.
         (b)   C = coefficient of runoff having a value between 0.0 and 1.0
depending on surface characteristics (
23.31.041(1)).
         (c)   I = the average intensity of rainfall in inches per hour for a
duration equal to the critical time, usually the time of concentration.
         (d)   A = the tributary area in acres corresponding to the critical
time above.
      (2)   The procedure for determining the values of C, A and I are given in
the following sections.
   (B)   Runoff coefficient, C. 
Table 23.31.041(1) shows the basic coefficient, C, to be used for various types
of surfaces. Where a tributary area contains more than one type of surface, the
value of C shall be the weighted average of the respective values shown on
Table 23.31.041(2) based on percentage of each surface area to the total area.
 
Table 23.31.041(1) Basic Runoff Coefficients
Surface                                             Coefficients
Pavement                                            0.95
Roofs                                               0.80
Compacted earth or aggregated base without paving   0.75
Hillside areas (based on slope and soil character)  0.30 - .50
Lawns, open lands, agricultural fields and orchards 0.20
 
Table 23.31.041(2) Composite Runoff Coefficients & Minimum Inlet Times for
Various Land Uses
Land Use Runoff Minimum (Tci) Residential (1)
Table 23.31.041(2) Composite Runoff Coefficients & Minimum Inlet Times for
Various Land Uses
Land Use                     Runoff Minimum (Tci) Residential (1)
Rural density (zones with 5  .25                  30 or larger minimum lot size
acre
Suburban density (0.5 - 4.99 .30                  30
acre min.)
Low density (single family)  .35                  25
Medium density (multi-       .50                  20
family)
High density (apartments)    .70                  15
Business and commercial      .90                  10 industrial (2)
Light                        .70                  15
Heavy                        .90                  10 other (2)
Community park               .25                  30
Recreation                   .30                  25
Schools                      .40                  20
(1)    Refer to general plan for description.
(2)    In lieu of using this table, composite coefficients may be determined
for land uses within a development by using the basic coefficients shown in
Table 23.31.041(1), subject to review and approval of the County Engineer.
 
   (C)   Rainfall intensity, I. Runoff for the ten-year storm must be based on
the rainfall zone map and the rainfall intensity - duration curve.
   (D)   Tributary area, A. The tributary area in acres for each point of
computation shall be based on actual field reconnaissance or use of
appropriately scaled maps that certainly depict the drainage boundaries. All of
the area that will contribute runoff to the drainage system shall be
considered, regardless of the limits of the particular development under
consideration.
   (E)   Critical flow time.
      (1)   The critical flow time is the time that results in the maximum flow
rate for a given point in a drainage system. Maximum flow occurs when the
product of the intensity and the contributing area corresponding to the flow
time is a maximum. The time required for water to flow from the most hydraulic
remote point in the watershed to the point in question is called the time of
concentration. Using the intensity corresponding to this time and the entire
drainage area in the rational formula usually results in the maximum flow rate
for the point.
      (2)   The nomograph shall be used to determine the time of concentration
to the first inlet of the drainage system. If this time is less than the
minimum inlet time, the values shown in the table shall be used.
      (3)   When any part of the storm waters are conveyed to the point in
question by pipes or open channels, the flow time in these conveyances shall be
added to the inlet time to compute the total flow time. In complex drainage
situations more than one computation may be required to determine the
combination of contributing area and flow time that results in the maximum flow
rate.
      (4)   The rational method tends to result in more conservative values for
peak flows as the time of concentration becomes quite large and when several
branches of varying times of concentration are involved; therefore, the
designer may consider using a hydrograph method for determining runoff when the
drainage basin is larger than 100 acres.
   (F)   Off-site flows. Flows entering the proposed development from outside
the property are off-site flows. The off-site storm runoff must be determined
and included in the drainage system design. Available drainage reports for off-
site developed areas affecting the property must be reviewed and considered in
the drainage system planning and design. Runoff entering the site from off-site
must be computed using runoff coefficients based upon existing development, or
for undeveloped land, based on zoning, whichever is greater. Allowable
discharge for the developed area shall be limited to the ten-year event pre-
development discharge, or the channel capacity, whichever is the lesser.
   (G)   Figures. See figures on following pages.
COUNTY OF SAN BENITO DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS
ISOHYETAL MAP - MEAN ANNUAL PRECIPITATION
FIGURE 23.31.041(1)
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/fb9621aeb40cfcace25e7d8581ab7f5ecac73a18/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4127.jpg]
 
Click_here_for_PDF_version_of_FIGURE_23.31.041(1)
COUNTY OF SAN BENITO DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS
INTENSITY DURATION CHARTS
FIGURE 23.31.041(2)
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/fb9621aeb40cfcace25e7d8581ab7f5ecac73a18/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4130.jpg]
 
Click_here_for_PDF_version_of_FIGURE_23.31.041(2)
COUNTY OF SAN BENITO DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS
TIME OF CONCENTRATION (RURAL WATERSHEDS)
FIGURE 23.31.041(3)
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/fb9621aeb40cfcace25e7d8581ab7f5ecac73a18/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4133.jpg]
 
Click_here_for_PDF_version_of_FIGURE_23.31.041(3)
COUNTY OF SAN BENITO DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS
INLET TIME (SUBURBAN-URBAN)
FIGURE 23.31.041(4)
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/fb9621aeb40cfcace25e7d8581ab7f5ecac73a18/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4136.jpg]
 
Click_here_for_PDF_version_of_FIGURE_23.31.041(4)
COUNTY OF SAN BENITO DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS
VOLUME
FIGURE 23.31.041(5)
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/fb9621aeb40cfcace25e7d8581ab7f5ecac73a18/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4139.jpg]
 
Click_here_for_PDF_version_of_FIGURE_23.31.041(5)
§ 23.31.042 HYDRAULIC CRITERIA.
   (A)   Manning Equation.
      (1)   The Manning Equation shall be used to determine the capacity of
open channels and enclosed gravity conduits:
         Q = AV = 1.486 R 2/3 S 1/2 A n
         (a)   Q is the flow rate in cubic feet per second.
         (b)   R is the hydraulic radius in feet.
         (c)   A is the cross sectional area of the flow in square feet.
         (d)   S is the slope in feet per foot
         (e)   V is the flow velocity in feet per second.
         (f)   n is the Manning coefficient
      (2)   Values of the Manning coefficient for various pipes and open
channels are given in Table 23.31.042(1).
Table 23.31.042(1) Manning Coefficient
Conduit Material Manning Coefficient
Table 23.31.042(1) Manning Coefficient
Conduit Material                     Manning Coefficient
CLOSED CONDUITS
   Cast iron pipe                 .013
   Concrete pipe                  .013
   Corrugated metal pipe
      Plain                    .024
      Paved invert             .020
      Fully paved              .015
   Plastic                        .013
   Vitrified clay                 .013
OPEN CHANNELS
   Lined channels
      Asphalt                  .015
      Concrete                 .015
      Rubble or rip rap        .030
      Vegetal                  .040
   Excavated or dredged
      Earth, straight and unifo.030
      Earth, winding, fairly un.040m
      Unmaintained             .100
NATURAL CHANNELS (MINOR STREAMS)
   Fairly regular section         .050
   Irregular section with pools   .100
Adapted from Table XIV, ASCE Manual No. 37, 1970
 
   (B)   Pipe flow criteria.
      (1)   Catch basin laterals shall be not less than 12 inches in diameter.
All mains or trunk lines shall be not less than 18 inches in diameter.
      (2)   The minimum velocity in closed conduits shall be one fps when
flowing full. Maximum velocity shall be ten fps.
      (3)   The hydraulic grade line (HGL) of the design storm flow must be
computed for all storm drain systems and must be shown on the design profile
when it is above the top of the pipe. The HGL shall be a minimum of one-half
feet below the elevation of the inlet grates and manhole covers of all
structures within the system.
   (C)   Open channel flow.
      (1)   Maximum velocities in open channels shall be as follows on
Table 23.31.042(2).
Table 23.31.042(2)
Channel Material Max. Allowable Velocity (fps)
Table 23.31.042(2)
Channel Material                       Max. Allowable Velocity (fps)
Fine sand*                             2.0
Sandy loam*                            2.5
Alluvial silt*                         3.0
Firm loam*                             3.5
Fine gravel*                           4.0
Stiff clay*                            4.5
Coarse gravel                          5.0
Bottom paved channels (A.C. or P.C.C.) 8.0
Fully lined channels                   10.0
*One fps may be added to the above when turf is maintained in channel.
 
      (2)   Freeboard requirements shall be set by the Engineer or the agency
governing the proposed channel facilities.
      (3)   Channel flow shall be placed in closed conduits where the flow
requires a concrete pipe of 48 inches diameter or less.
   (D)   Backwater effects. When obstructions, transitions, junctions,
constrictions or other irregularities in an otherwise uniform channel system
create backwater conditions in the system, the consulting engineer shall make
computations to determining the effects of the backwater condition. The
consulting engineer shall use careful consideration in determining when losses
due to channel irregularities are small enough to neglect or when they are
large enough to create considerable backwater effects.
   (E)   Detention basins.
      (1)   Detention basins other than those shown on the Master Storm
Drainage Map may be used for revisions to the Master Plan or the staged
development only upon approval of the Engineer.
      (2)   The volume of water to be stored shall be computed from the
following basic formula with credit for outlet flow per division (E)(2)(d)
below:
 
V = CAR Formula 3-5
    12
 
         (a)   V = the volume in acre-feet.
         (b)   C = the runoff coefficient (see Tables
23.31.041(1) or
23.31.041(2)).
         (c)   A = the contributing area in acres.
         (d)   R = the total rainfall in inches for the 24-hour storm period,
using a 100-year storm frequency.
      (3)   The volume of detention basins shall be determined with no
allowance for percolation.
      (4)   All detention basins shall have outlet facilities providing
terminal drainage capable of emptying a full basin within 24 hours. Allowance
for outlet facilities to reduce the total volume of the basin can be made only
if the consulting engineer can demonstrate by routing computation that the
basin will operate properly.
      (5)   The bottom of the basin shall be above the highest recorded
groundwater elevation and shall also meet the requirement of the state’s Water
Quality Control Board. It is the responsibility of the developer’s consulting
engineer to coordinate with the state’s Water Quality Control Board and submit
evidence of their approval to the Engineer.
      (6)   The design water surface elevation of basin shall be a minimum of
one foot below all berm, and of roads, and/or top of curb elevations upstream
from the basin.
   (F)   Retention ponds.
      (1)   Developments will be required to provide terminal drainage where
developments are within one mile of a terminal drainage facility.
      (2)   When terminal drainage is not available, retention ponds utilizing
percolation as a means for emptying the basin may be used only upon approval of
the Engineer.
      (3)   Retention ponds that utilize percolation as a means of emptying the
retention ponds shall not be permitted unless bottom elevation of the retention
pond is two feet or more above the highest recorded groundwater elevation in
the previous ten years.
      (4)   Retention ponds that utilize percolation as a means of emptying the
retention pond shall conform to the following design criteria:
         (a)   The retention pond design shall be the responsibility of the
developer’s engineer and subject to review by the county.
         (b)   Permeability and differential head available must be considered
for the life of the project, not just present values.
         (c)   Earth material and groundwater condition evaluations shall be
made on a site-specific basis by a qualified Geotechnical Engineer and include
project-specific subsurface data and tests, all subject to review by the
county.
         (d)   The volume of storage required shall be 100% of the computed
volume of storage for the 100-year storm.
         (e)   Retention ponds shall be designed to empty 100% of the required
volume of storage within ten calendar days.
         (f)   Levees shall be discouraged around retention ponds.
   (G)   Culvert criteria.
      (1)   Culverts shall be designed per CALTRANS standards. Maximum
headwater depth at inlets shall not exceed one and one-half times the pipe
diameter without approval of the Engineer.
      (2)   The constants Ke = 0.25 and Ko = 0.75 shall be used for concrete
pipes and box culverts. For corrugated pipes, Ke = 0.50 and Ko = 1.0 shall be
used.
      (3)   Cross culvert conduits and box structures shall be designed to pass
the peak flow from the ten-year storm without damage to the roadway and shall
be checked on the basis of the ten-year runoff plus 50% to determine that no
serious damage will be incurred upstream as a result of the higher design
storm.
      (4)   Cross culvert profile will be determined by an examination of the
overall profile of the channel for a minimum distance of 500 feet each side of
the installation.
      (5)   Outlet velocities of all culverts must be checked. When outlet
velocity exceeds the maximum permissible channel velocity listed on
Table 23.31.042(2), energy dissipaters must be provided to minimize potential
erosion at the outlet.
   (H)   Inlet criteria.
      (1)   Inlets shall be spaced so that the flow capacity of the inlet is
not exceeded by the design storm flow rate or so that the length of gutter flow
does not exceed 700 feet, whichever is less. The maximum flow capacity of a
single standard storm: Drain Inlet No. 1 at a sag point is 2.0 cfs. On a
continuous grade greater than 0.5%, the maximum capacity is approximately one
cfs, and 0.50 cfs on grades less than 0.5%. Larger Basin No. 2 may be used in
industrial or commercial areas or when approved by the Engineer. Industrial/
commercial catch basins shall conform to county standards, and will have
capacities approximately 50% greater than the Standard Drain inlet No. 1.
      (2)   Drainage in a sump area must be provided with a secondary outlet
for flows greater than the ten-year design capacity of the drain inlet. This
outlet must be provided as overland, street or
other above ground means of carrying flow, unless it can be shown that a
secondary drain inlet to the underground system, along with that underground
system can convey the 100-year storm without flooding beyond the limits shown
in division (I) below.
      (3)   Eighteen inch storm drain inlets may be used at sag point only as
approved by the Engineer. Capacity of this inlet is dependent on maximum
allowable submergence and will be reviewed on a case by case basis.
   (I)   Surface flow in street and allowable inundation of 100-year storm.
      (1)   The primary use of roads is for traffic. The allowable depth of
flow in streets shall be limited to the following:
 
Table 23.31.042(3)
Street Classification 10-Year Storm Encroachment 100-Year Storm Encroachment
                      No curb overtopping; flow  Depth of flow above street
Local residential     spread must leave at least crown must not exceed 12
                      one lane in each direction inches; flow spread shall not
                      free of water              exceed building setback lines
                      No curb overtopping; flow  Depth of flow above street
Collectors            spread must leave at least crown must not exceed six
                      one lane in each direction inches; flow spread shall not
                      of free of water           exceed building setback lines
                      No curb overtopping; flow  Depth of flow above shall not
Arterial, expressway, spread must leave at least exceed three inches; flow
freeway               one lane in each direction spread shall not exceed
                      of free of water           building setback lines
 
   (J)   On-site drainage.
      (1)   Minimum pipe size shall be 12 inches or as approved by the
Engineer.
      (2)   Maximum area to be drained to a single inlet is two acres.
§ 23.31.043 CONSTRUCTION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Alignment of drainage facilities.
      (1)   The diversion of natural drainage will be allowed only within the
limits of the proposed improvement. All natural drainage must enter and leave
the improved area at its original horizontal and vertical alignment unless an
agreement, approved by the Engineer, has been executed with the adjoining
property owners.
      (2)   Alignment of drainage facilities must coordinate with other
utilities and street designs.
      (3)   Closed conduit must usually be placed straight between manholes.
Long radius curves are permitted for pipe 24 inches and larger. The radius of
curvature must not be less than 100 feet or the manufacturers recommendation
for curved alignment, whichever is greater. Curves, radii and length of pipe
joints must be shown on the improvement plans.
   (B)   Easements. Easements for drainage facilities shall meet the
requirements of the county improvement standards and the following design
standards:
      (1)   Closed conduit. Easements for closed conduits shall meet the
following requirements:
         (a)   For pipes 24 inches in diameter and less with trench depth less
than or equal to five feet, the minimum width of the easement shall be ten feet
with the centerline of the pipe at quarter point; pipe may reverse sides at
angle points.
         (b)   Temporary access and working easements must be obtained for work
outside of the easement.
         (c)   For pipes exceeding 24 inches in diameter or trenches greater
than five feet deep, the easement shall have additional width to provide ample
working space as required by the Engineer.
      (2)   Open channels. Easements for open channels shall have sufficient
width to contain the open channel with side slopes, fencing where required, and
a 15-foot service road when required by the Engineer. Suitable ramps must be
provided for access to the bottom when bottom is used for maintenance access.
   (C)   Closed conduit design.
      (1)   Closed conduits shall be either cast-in-place concrete pipe,
precast reinforced concrete pipe, non-reinforced concrete pipe, corrugated
steel pipe or corrugated aluminum pipe, or other type approved by the County
Engineer.
      (2)   The specified type of pipe or alternate pipes must be shown on the
plans. Revised plans must be submitted to the county for approval if use of
pipe not shown on the plans is desired.
      (3)   Cover requirements shall be as shown on standard drawings. Where
the minimum cover requirement cannot be provided, the conduit shall be encased
in concrete or provided with a concrete cover or other method of pipe
protection approved by the Engineer. These charts are based on Type I bedding
and backfill per standard drawing. Type I bedding and backfill shall be used
for storm drain conduit unless otherwise specified by the Engineer. Other
trench requirements can be found in the standard specifications sections.
      (4)   Where different size pipes meet at a junction, the pipe crown
elevations shall be matched unless otherwise approved by the Engineer.
   (D)   Manholes and junction boxes.
      (1)   Standard precast concrete or saddle type manholes per Standard
Drawings D-1 and D-2 shall be used where feasible. For cases where special
manholes or junction boxes are necessary, the design must be approved by the
Engineer. In no case shall manholes or junction boxes be allowed that are
smaller than 24 inches inside dimensions. All manholes and junction boxes other
than inlets shall have standard manhole covers per standard drawings. Slotted
manhole may be used when approved by the Engineer to back up minor drainage in
non-traffic areas. These covers will not be allowed in gutters, pedestrian,
bicycle or vehicle access areas.
      (2)   Manhole shall be constructed at junction points, angle points
greater than 15, changes in grade and changes in pipe size. On curved pipes
manholes must be located at the B.C. and E.C. of the curve. Where approved by
the Engineer, inlet pipe with diameter 20% or less in size than the main line
may not require a manhole at the connection. Manholes located in major
intersections shall be avoided wherever possible.
      (3)   Maximum spacing of manholes shall be as follows:
         (a)   For pipe sizes 24 inches or less in diameter the maximum spacing
of manholes shall be 500 feet.
         (b)   For pipes greater than 24 inches in diameter the maximum spacing
may be up to 600 feet.
         (c)   For curved pipe with radii less than 400 feet, maximum spacing
shall be 300 feet.
         (d)   For curved pipe of radii 400 feet or greater, the maximum
spacing shall be 400 feet for pipe 24 inches or less in diameter and 500 feet
for pipe greater than 24 inches in diameter.
   (E)   Inlets.
      (1)   Drain inlets shall be constructed per standard drawings. Deviations
from the standard inlets must be approved by the Engineer.
      (2)   A drain inlet must be placed at all gutter sag points. Inlets
located within street crosswalks shall be avoided whenever possible. Spacing of
inlets shall meet the hydraulic criteria as set in these standards.
   (F)   Open channels.
      (1)   Natural channels. Natural or grass lined channels shall have a
minimum side slope of two to one. For locations of unstable soils, the minimum
side slope may be three to one at the discretion of the Engineer. The minimum
bottom width shall be six feet with no shrubs or trees within the flow limits
of the channel.
      (2)   Concrete lined channels.
         (a)   Concrete lined channels may be constructed if a natural channel
is not feasible and one or more of the following conditions are met:
            1.   The capacity of a 66 inch pipe is exceeded;
            2.   The cover requirements for buried pipe cannot be met;
            3.   The required pipe or natural channel grade cannot be
maintained; or
            4.   Slope lining is required to maintain the desired channel side
slope.
         (b)   Rectangular concrete channels must be structurally designed to
retain resultant earth pressures. Calculations must be submitted to the county.
         (c)   Trapezoidal concrete sections shall be designed per the standard
drawings. The minimum bottom width shall be six feet. A ten-foot wide access
road will be required on either bank and will be provided with adequate ramping
per standard drawings for access of maintenance equipment to the channel
bottom. At the discretion of the Engineer, a bank side road may not be required
where channel bottom width is greater than or equal to ten feet and vehicular
access to the channel bottom is included.
         (d)   All concrete lined channels shall be enclosed by a minimum six-
foot high chain link fence.
      (3)   Rock lined channel. Rock lined channels may be constructed in lieu
of concrete channels, but must maintain a minimum two to one side slope and
must conform to standards and specifications of the California Department of
Transportation.
      (4)   Inlet and outlet structures.
         (a)   Inlets from channels to pipes shall be designed per approved
standard drawing. A trash rack will be required in instances where the Engineer
deems that significant amounts of debris may occur at the inlet. Trash racks
will be designed per approved standard drawing.
         (b)   Outlets from pipes to natural or grass lined channels shall
include erosion control provisions per standard drawings.
   (G)   Culverts.
      (1)   The U.S. Bureau of Public Roads nomograph shall be used to compute
the capacity of all cross culverts that are not to become a part of a closed
conduit system.
      (2)   All headwalls, wingwalls and endwalls shall be considered
individually and shall be, in general, designed in accordance with the
Standards and Specifications of the California Department of Transportation.
   (H)   Detention and retention systems.
      (1)   General.
         (a)   The maximum side slope for retention ponds or detention basis
shall be two to one where adequate side slope stability can be demonstrated.
All ponds or basins with depth of 18 inches and with side slopes steeper than
five to one shall be completely enclosed by a six-foot high chain link fence.
Ponds or basins with slopes five to one or flatter will have no fencing
requirements. Where side slopes are steeper than five to one, a vehicular
access ramp shall be included into the pond.
         (b)   Vegetation other than trees or landscape shrubs on side slopes
and banks of basins and ponds must be mowed, burned or treated with herbicide
so as to not reach a height greater than six inches during the non rainy season
(March 15 to November 15).
      (2)   Detention basins.
         (a)   Detention basins may be constructed to facilitate other public
uses where possible.
         (b)   Detention basins shall be designed with gravity in-flow and
gravity out-flow whenever possible. (i.e., large pipe in/smaller pipe out, or
overflow in/flap gated outlet). Detention systems requiring pumping facilities
must meet the requirements of these standards and must be approved by the
Engineer.
         (c)   The bottom of a detention basin shall be sloped at a minimum of
1% towards the outlet works. Whenever possible, a low flow channel or pipe
through the basin shall be incorporated into the design.
      (3)   Retention ponds. Retention ponds shall be constructed per standard
drawings. Deviation from this design must be approved by the Engineer. The
number and depth of percolation pits necessary will be based on recommendations
of a certified soil or geotechnical engineer.
   (I)   Pump stations.
      (1)   General.
         (a)   The use of drainage pumps shall be avoided whenever possible and
used only with the specific approval of the Engineer.
         (b)   If the use of drainage pumps is permitted, the drainage system
shall be so designed as to provide for gravity outfall during the summer months
and other periods of low water stages. If a low stage gravity outfall is
impossible or impractical, an alternate pump of smaller capacity for low stage
flow shall be provided.
         (c)   Pumping installations shall be so designed to accommodate a
design storm as specified in these standards. When a station contains gravity
discharge, discharge capacity must be equal to the allowable outflow. When the
station does not have a gravity discharge, pumping units must be designed to
furnish 100% of allowable outflow with any one pump out. Any deviation from
this criteria must receive the specific approval of the Engineer.
         (d)   Each pumping installation shall require approval for each of the
following items: electrical system, piping system, pumps, housing installation
and other miscellaneous design features.
         (e)   For facilities to be maintained by the county, a multi-pump
system shall be provided and a pump house shall be required for the electrical
control equipment conforming to the improvement standard drawings.
      (2)   Design.
         (a)   Pumping plant sites shall be fenced with a six-foot high chain
link fence with three strand barbed wire and a ten-foot minimum width gate. The
site shall also be provided with a paved access road. Unpaved areas within the
fence boundary shall be sterilized with a soil sterilant.
         (b)   Adequate access shall be provided for cleaning the pump sump.
         (c)   Trash racks shall be provided upstream from the pumping plant.
Provisions shall be made for easy cleaning of the trash racks.
         (d)   Hatch covers, where used, shall be of raised pattern aluminum
floor plate, or other approved lightweight cover. Dissimilar metals shall be
insulated from each other when necessary.
         (e)   Ladder rungs, where used, shall be of a non-slip variety.
   (J)   Temporary drainage diversion.
      (1)   Temporary drainage diversions, such as dams and pipe plugs, shall
be located and constructed in such a fashion as to permit their removal during
adverse weather.
      (2)   Locations and removal procedures for temporary drainage
installations shall be approved by the Engineer, and these installations shall
be removed when necessary to prevent damage to adjoining property.
   (K)   Fence requirements.
      (1)   Where required.
         (a)   Improved channels, detention basins and retention ponds in
developed areas exceeding one and one half feet in depth and with side slopes
steeper than five to one shall be fenced with six-foot chain link fence. In all
other areas, fencing shall be placed only upon the recommendation of the
Engineer.
         (b)   The fence shall be located six inches within the required
drainage easement lines.
      (2)   Access. Double panel access gates shall be required for all
vehicular access. The minimum width shall be ten feet and shall be based on the
specific application.
§ 23.31.044 DRAINAGE REPORT.
   (A)   Required. For subdivisions larger than two acres, a drainage report
shall be submitted with the submittal of the improvement plans. Subdivisions
less than two acres will be checked on a case by case basis with requirements
determined by the Engineer.
   (B)   Format. The following format shall be followed in preparation of the
drainage calculations:
      (1)   Title page.
         (a)   Type of calculations (preliminary or final);
         (b)   Project name;
         (c)   Preparer’s name, firm and date; and
         (d)   Stamp and signature of engineer who prepared the calculations.
      (2)   Introduction.
         (a)   Site location:
            1.   City, county, street grid; and
            2.   Adjacent development.
         (b)   Site description:
            1.   Existing topography, land use and the like; and
            2.   Existing drainage facilities.
         (c)   Proposed project description; and
         (d)   Reference to flood hazard reports or other related drainage
reports or flood insurance rate maps (FIRMs).
      (3)   Existing drainage system.
         (a)   Basin drainage characteristics;
         (b)   Existing drainage patterns; and
         (c)   Off-site flows and effects of historic flows or adjacent
properties.
      (4)   Proposed drainage system.
         (a)   Discussion of criteria:
            1.   Basin and sub-basin sizes;
            2.   Hydrologic method;
            3.   Storm frequencies analyzed;
            4.   Proposed flow patterns; and
            5.   Hydraulic controls for terminal drainage outfall.
         (b)   Major facilities:
            1.   Discuss location, size and configuration of major trunk lines,
open channels, culverts and the like and relate to existing or proposed
terminal drainage facilities; and
            2.   Discuss need for and sizes of detention or retention
facilities and means of releasing stored runoff.
      (5)   Conclusions. Discuss impacts of improvements:
            1.   Benefits - Does the improvement reduce existing drainage
problems; and
            2.   Adverse impacts with solutions to mitigate impact.
      (6)   Appendices containing hydrologic and hydraulic computations.
         (a)   Runoff calculations:
            1.   On-site map shall be a reproducible watershed map, which
includes:
               a.   Sub-area acreage;
               b.   Sub-area design flow rates;
               c.   Sub-area runoff rates; and
               d.   Plan view of improvements with respective design flow
rates.
            2.   Off-site watershed shall be shown on USGS quad map and shall
indicate:
               a.   Watershed acreage;
               b.   Design flow rate and location of discharge;
               c.   Flow patterns; and
               d.   Runoff coefficients used.
            3.   Table of runoff for each sub-area showing acres, runoff
coefficient, time of concentration and intensity used.
         (b)   1.   Hydraulic calculations:
               a.   Main line pipe and channels; and
               b.   Calculation sheets shall include:
                  (i)   Contributory drainage areas;
                  (ii)   CFS in each pipe or channel reach;
                  (iii)   Invert elevations of each pipe or channel reach;
                  (iv)   Hydraulic grade line control;
                  (v)   Hydraulic gradient;
                  (vi)   Hydraulic grade line elevations;
                  (vii)   Pipe sizes, lengths and slopes; and
                  (viii)   Channel dimensions and water surface profile
computations. The standard storm drain design sheet shall be per standard
drawings.
            2.   Detention or retention ponds. Calculations must include:
               a.   Volume or routing computations for ten-year storm;
               b.   Ponding elevations;
               c.   Discharge rates to show that ponds will regain adequate
capacity; and
               d.   Ponds with no outlets for retention shall include soil
information and percolation rates from a certified geotechnical engineer
showing that the necessary volume will be regained in the specified time.
            3.   Pump stations:
               a.   Pump sizing calculations;
               b.   Sump sizing criteria; and
               c.   Sketch of station layout.
§ 23.31.045 DRAINAGE IMPROVEMENTS PLANS.
   (A)   A plan and profile shall be shown for all drainage facilities that
carry natural drainage that originate upstream of or within the limits of the
development.
   (B)   The plan view shall show all pipelines, pipe sizes, flow directions,
manhole locations, inlets, channels, culverts, centerlines, stationing and
curve data on centerline or as an offset from another construction centerline.
Catch basin and connector pipe invert elevations will also be shown on the plan
view.
   (C)   The profile shall show pipe length, slope, size and construction
material used for each mainline pipe or channel section. Manhole locations,
inverts and stationing shall also be shown.
   (D)   Channel profiles will include the channel flowline and existing ground
elevation along the channel centerline. Invert elevations will be shown at the
grade changes.
   (E)   The hydraulic grade line of the design storm shall be shown on all
channel profiles and the 100-year as required by the Engineer for major
channels. In closed conduit, the hydraulic grade line shall be shown when it is
above the soffit of the pipe.
ARTICLE IV. WATER SYSTEM DESIGN STANDARDS
§ 23.31.060 GENERAL.
   (A)   Authority. These standards apply to any facility or system in the
county, except individual residential parcels not served by a system and small
water systems servicing four or less services, that meets any one or more of
the following conditions:
      (1)   Is or may be a county (or county-operated service area) owned
system; and/or
      (2)   Serves, or plans to serve, water to any land development project
that is subject to approval of the county’s Board of Supervisors, Planning
Commission, Fire Marshal or Department of Public Works.
   (B)   Water system expansion/repair. Expansions or repair of an existing
system shall meet the standards provided herein without reducing the supply,
flow or storage presently available to the existing system, unless the
reduction does not reduce the quality or quantity below the requirements for
the whole system based on these standards and if approval of the County
Engineer is obtained.
   (C)   Calculations required. Calculations showing compliance with this title
are required.
   (D)   Definitions. As used in these standards, the words defined in this
section shall have the meanings herein ascribed.
      DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM. Water mains, together with all appurtenant and
necessary valves, fire hydrants, meters, service laterals and associated
material and equipment that carry water and distribute it to individual
consumers.
      MAIN EXTENSION. An extension to the distribution system that is needed to
serve a new development.
      MAIN REPLACEMENT. A replacement of an existing portion of the
distribution system.
      PRIVATE PIPE EXTENSION. An extension that provides on-site domestic
service or fire protection service on the consumer’s side of the water meter or
service stop.
      SERVICE LATERAL. The pipe or tubing, fittings, valves and appurtenances
necessary to convey water from the water main to the meter.
      SUPPLY SYSTEM. A general term covering all facilities related to
obtaining service water and delivering it for residential, commercial,
industrial, agricultural, irrigation or other end use.
      TAP. Physical connection to a water main which, together with appropriate
metering, effects water service to individual consumers.
      TRANSMISSION LINE. A pipeline together with all appurtenances primarily
used to transport raw or treated water between two points.
      WATER PURVEYORS. A public utility, a mutual water company, a governmental
body or other entity, owning and operating a water system and holding a valid
permit to purvey water from the state or county health department/district.
Also, the owner of a planned development served by its own well and holding a
valid permit. In the case of a public utility, it must also hold a valid
“certificate of convenience and necessity” from the California Public Utility
Commission.
§ 23.31.061 WATER SUPPLY REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Quality. Water supplied for use in domestic water systems in San
Benito County shall conform to the latest revisions of §§ 3, 4 and 5 of the
United States Public Health Service Drinking Water Standards, the requirements
of the California Health and Safety Code and the Cal. Administrative Code Title
22 and local ordinances.
   (B)   Supply source.
      (1)   General requirements. The following general requirements shall
apply to all development requiring facilities and services for water supply,
unless otherwise specified in this chapter:
         (a)   Private water supply systems; compliance with Health Department
requirements. When connection to an existing public water supply system or the
creation of a new system is not required by the county, water supply facilities
shall comply with the requirements of the San Benito Health Department;
         (b)   Letter of approval from Health Department. The application for a
building permit shall be accompanied by written approval from the San Benito
County Health Department;
         (c)   Public water supply systems; approval by agencies for public
water systems. For developments and subdivisions requiring a public water
system, the water system shall conform to the requirements of the county’s Fire
Marshal, the San Benito Health Department, the county’s Public Works Department
and applicable state and federal standards.
      (2)   Incorporated urban centers. Within an urban center with an
incorporated area, water supply shall be provided by an existing agency as
follows:
         (a)   Major and minor subdivisions shall connect to a public water
system having adequate capacity for the subdivision. If a public water system
with adequate capacity is not immediately available, the developers shall
provide for adequate capacity.
         (b)   Development on existing parcels shall connect to a public water
system. Main extensions for the purpose of serving development shall be
constructed across the full frontage of the property served unless otherwise
directed by the water purveyor. The developer shall fund needed main extension.
      (3)   Unincorporated urban centers. Within an unincorporated urban
center, water supply shall be provided by an existing agency or if there is no
existing agency, a new district shall be formed.
         (a)   Major and minor subdivisions shall connect to a public water
system having adequate capacity for the subdivision. If a public water system
with adequate capacity is not immediately available, the developer shall
provide for adequate capacity by developing a potable water system to serve the
subdivision. The public water system so developed shall be designed to
ultimately connect to the existing system and be approved by the existing
agency if any.
         (b)   Development on existing parcels shall connect to a public water
system. Main extensions for the purpose of serving development shall be
constructed across the full frontage of the property served unless otherwise
directed by the water purveyor. The developer shall fund needed main extension.
      (4)   Industrial areas. Development within planned industrial areas shall
connect to a water system approved by the County Engineer planned to serve the
entire industrial area or connect to an existing public water system with
adequate capacity. Any water supply system serving more than one parcel shall
be a public water system. If there is no existing agency to provide service, a
new district shall be formed. Industrial uses may be permitted to develop using
an on-site well system.
      (5)   Highway service areas. Development within highway service areas
shall connect to a water supply system planned to service the entire highway
service area. Any water supply system serving more than one parcel shall be a
public water system approved by the County Engineer. If there is no existing
agency to provide service, a new district shall be formed.
      (6)   Rural communities. Within rural communities, water supply shall be
as follows:
         (a)   Major and minor subdivisions may develop using on-site well
systems. If on-site water is unacceptable for well systems, water supply shall
provided by a public water system approved by the County Engineer, planned to
serve the entire residential area. If there is no existing agency to provide
service, a new district shall be formed.
         (b)   Major subdivisions with parcels less than two acres shall
require a public water system serving the subdivision and planned to serve the
entire rural community. If there is no existing agency to provide service, a
new district shall be formed.
         (c)   Development on existing parcels shall connect to a public water
system if water main is within 1,000 feet of the nearest property line. If an
existing water main is not within 1,000 feet, an on-site well may be allowed if
the design is approved by the County Engineer and county’s Health Department
and the well and on-site water system meet the general requirements.
      (7)   Commercial recreation area. Commercial recreation areas shall
comply with standards for industrial areas.
   (C)   On-site wells.
      (1)   General requirements.
         (a)   For those projects for which an individual well on each parcel
is an acceptable supply, test wells shall be developed and tested for quality
and quantity prior to filing of a final or parcel map, or issuance of a
building permit where allowed by the County Engineer as follows:
 
Proposed Development               Number of Test Wells Required
Parcels 20 acres or larger         One per parcel
Parcels of less than 20 acres each One per 40 acres
Less than 20 total acres           One per development
 
         (b)   Where topography, geological conditions or little information
from existing wells is available, additional test wells may be required on each
and every lot. Test wells shall be pumped in a manner satisfactory to the
county’s Health Department for quality as well as quantity, as regulated under
state law, the county’s Local Water Systems ordinance, or other applicable
laws. Wells to serve other uses shall produce a minimum of the design source
capacity. The provisions of this section may be waived by the Health Officer if
sufficient well information has been developed in the area to assure adequate
potable water. A statement to the Health Department by a licensed well driller
and a report by a recognized engineering geologist or hydrologist may be
required in this case.
         (c)   Where the water supply for a subdivision is proposed to be by
new wells, the new wells shall, prior to filing the final or parcel map, be
developed and tested for quality and quantity. The wells shall be pumped in a
manner satisfactory to the county’s Health Department and Public Works
Department and shall produce a minimum of the design standard for source
capacity. If necessary to meet the minimum quality standards, additional
treatment facilities must be constructed prior to putting the well into
service. Supply minimum of one well log when available; additional logs shall
be required for more than ten test wells or when determined by the Engineer
that there is a significant change in strata.
      (2)   Well construction. Any well to be constructed for use as a domestic
water supply of a single family dwelling shall be constructed to the latest
revision of the standards as specified in Bulletin 74, Water Well Standards,
State of California, Department of Water Resources. A separate utility service
or sub-panel is required for fire suppression water supply, pursuant hereto.
   (D)   Community water system.
      (1)   General requirements. For those projects for which a community
water system is required, new or as a connection to an existing system, the
following shall serve as the minimum water requirements when determining
adequate capacity.
      (2)   Domestic supply. A community water system shall be designed to meet
the criteria of water supply requirements for domestic supply, set in
California Waterworks Standards, Cal. Administrative Code Title 22 or Public
Utilities Commission General Order 103; whichever is the more restrictive.
      (3)   Fire flow. Fire flow shall be as provided herein. The total
calculated fire flow required for residential development may be reduced by 250
gpm where fire sprinkler systems are installed in the residence, the attic
areas and accessory buildings in the development. Sprinkler systems must be
enforceable through recorded deed restriction to allow the fire flow reduction.
      (4)   Storage. Where emergency power is not provided for water production
facilities meeting the required fire flow, sufficient storage for a volume of
water equal to two hours production of the needed fire flow shall be required.
§ 23.31.062 WATER DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM DESIGN.
   (A)   Distribution system sizing and layout.
      (1)   General.
         (a)   Distribution facilities shall be designed to provide the lowest
cost over their expected life. This may not necessarily result in the lowest
initial cost when long term operation and maintenance costs are considered.
This policy, however, results in a water supply system that yields optimum
quality at the lowest total cost to the consumer.
         (b)   System design shall be based on C-110, and all mains shall be
sized to provide a minimum of 20 psi residual pressure at the fire hydrant
under either maximum hour demand or maximum day demand plus fire flow. Maximum
velocities shall not exceed ten feet per second in design.
      (2)   Location of water mains.
         (a)   General. All pipelines designed for the transmission or
distribution of domestic water supply shall be located within rights-of-way
dedicated for public streets or roads unless the use of an easement is
specifically approved by the county.
         (b)   Location. In all new subdivisions, when the water mains are to
be within the road right-of-way, they shall be located on the north or west
side of the street. When water lines are to be constructed in existing streets,
they shall be placed in the same location when practicable. However, traffic
conditions, existing utilities and other physical features shall be considered.
The horizontal distance between parallel water and sanitary sewer lines shall
not be less than ten feet unless authorized by the Engineer.
      (3)   Distribution system.
         (a)   General. Whenever possible, the distribution system shall be in
grid form so pressures throughout the system tend to equalize under varying
rates and locations of demands.
         (b)   Layout of mains.
            1.   The minimum size pipe supplying fire suppression flow shall be
not less than six inches inside diameter. Where over 1,000 feet of main with no
side connectors would result, eight-inch or larger mains shall be used.
            2.   Larger mains shall be provided to serve multiple housing,
school, commercial or industrial areas as determined by an engineering study.
            3.   The distribution system grid normally will contain an eight-
inch or larger cross-connecting main at intervals of approximately 1,300 feet.
            4.   Dead-end mains shall be avoided if at all possible. If used, a
dead-end main shall be provided with an acceptable means of flushing at the
velocity required by Title 22, § 4642. In hilly areas, air release valves and
vacuum breakers shall be placed at high points as required.
            5.   Whenever an area outside a tract can be logically served by
future extension of a tract main or mains, the mains shall extend as close as
practicable to the tract boundary, and be provided with a means of flushing.
            6.   Whenever a water main is to cross a sewage force main, the
water main shall be installed a minimum of two feet above the sewer line where
possible and shall be of ductile iron or AWWA C-900, Class 150 PVC pipe
extending at least nine feet on each side of the force main. If the water main
crosses a sewer line closer than two feet, the pipe shall be completely encased
in Class B concrete for the same distance specified above.
            7.   If there is a situation where a sewer line must cross above a
water line, the design of such a crossing must conform to state and local
health laws and be approved by both the county’s Health Department and state’s
Health Department.
            8.   All non-metallic water mains shall have a No. 10 gauge, solid,
bare, soft-drawn copper wire laid along the pipe accessible in each valve box
or other access opening to the system, to facilitate locating the pipe.
            9.   Cement coated and lined steel pipe shall not be used for mains
in areas where service taps can be anticipated, or where active soil conditions
exist. Welded steel, or ductile iron pipe shall not be used where active soil
conditions exist.
            10.   Any requirements of this section that cannot be met due to
terrain or other factors may be varied with the specific approval of the
Engineer.
         (c)   Valves. The distribution system shall be equipped with a
sufficient number of valves located such that no single “shut down” will result
in shutting down a transmission main, necessitate the removal from service of a
length of pipe greater than 660 feet in multiple-family residential, school,
commercial or industrial districts, or greater than 1,320 feet in other areas,
and in no case shall more that two fire hydrants be removed from service.
Valves shall be located such that any section of main can be shut down without
going to more than three locations to close valves. Insofar as practicable,
resilient seat gate valves shall be located at street intersections opposite
the curb return. If it is necessary to locate valves between intersections,
they should be installed on a property line. Valves shall be of the same size
as the pipeline in which they are installed.
         (d)   Fire hydrants.
            1.   Fire hydrants shall be placed at street intersections whenever
possible, and shall be located to minimize the hazard of damage by traffic.
Fire hydrants located at intersections normally will be installed at the curb
return. All others should be located on a property line. They shall have
maximum spacing as described in
Chapter 23.27 of this title. Additional hydrants may be required on property
frontage or on-site as indicated by the Uniform Fire Code.
            2.   The minimum size main serving a fire hydrant and the pipeline
connecting the hydrant, shall be not less than six inches in diameter. Unless
prior approval is obtained from the county and the governing fire district. Not
more than one fire hydrant shall be placed on a six-inch main and not more than
two on an eight-inch main, unless the mains are in a looped portion of the
distribution system.
            3.   The type of fire hydrant installed shall be as specified by
the water purveyor, fire district or local agency. The following shall be
considered the minimum requirements for a fire hydrant unless otherwise
approved:
               a.   Have a minimum of one four and one-half inch NFPA standard
thread outlet, and two two and one-half inch NFPA standard thread outlets.
               b.   Hydrant valve should normally be located a minimum of ten
feet from the hydrant and shall be connected to the main with a flanged
fitting.
         (e)   Service lines.
            1.   Service lines from the water main to the property line shall
be installed at the time the main is constructed wherever it is known or
wherever it can be reasonably assumed that a connection is or will be required.
            2.   Minimum size of a service line shall be one inch inside
diameter to serve single- family residences only. All service lines shall be
designed to provide adequate service to the facility to be served, and shall be
identified on the plans. Service lines shall be non-cemented joint type
(compression fittings).
            3.   Service lines shall be equipped with angle ball curb stop or
gate valve at the property line. A gate valve may be used only when service is
two inches in diameter or larger. Installation of a valve or meter box is
required.
            4.   Service lines shall not be allowed to tap into transmission
lines, unless written approval is obtained from the county’s water purveyor.
            5.   The location of water service lines shall be permanently
indicated by embedding the letter “W” in the curb, directly above the line. It
shall be the developer’s responsibility to so mark any curb which is poured
after the installation of the service lines. Where curbs do not exist and are
not planned during the improvement project, a two-inch by two inch x 24 inch
construction grade redwood stake shall be driven into the ground directly above
the curb stop at the property line, and shall be painted bright blue and have a
nail and washer with “W” stamped in the top.
            6.   If a lot is served by both treated and untreated water
systems, the location of the service lines shall be at opposite ends of the
front lot line, or as widely separated as is practical, and with the approval
of the county’s Health Department. Backflow prevention devices are required in
the treated (potable) water service line of all lots having both treated and
untreated systems.
         (f)   Thrust blocks. All tees, bends, plugs, fire hydrants and other
sections of piping and appurtenances that might be capable of being displaced
by the action of either working pressures or test pressures within the water
system shall be anchored in place by the use of thrust blocks, thrust backing
or harnesses as shown on the standard drawings. The bearing areas of thrust
blocking on the supporting soil shall not exceed that allowable for the soil
involved. Required thrust block bearing areas shall be in accordance with
standard drawings.
         (g)   Valve boxes and vaults. A valve box or vault or capped standpipe
shall be provided for every valve installed below ground surface. The cover for
all valve boxes and vaults placed in the street pavement or any location where
there is vehicular traffic shall be capable of withstanding HS20 and
alternative loading, and shall be metallic or of reinforced concrete.
         (h)   Backflow and backflow prevention devices.
            1.   Backflow, which is the flow of water or other liquid or
foreign materials into the distribution mains of the Department’s system from
another source, is strictly prohibited and shall be prevented by the
installation of an appropriate, approved backflow prevention device, purchased,
installed and maintained by the consumer, and certified, all at their own
expense.
            2.   The type and complexity of the backflow prevention device
shall be determined by the county and backflow prevention foundation and shall
be based upon the degree of hazard caused to the public from contamination by
toxic or non-toxic substances.
         (i)   Meters. Meters (when required by the county) shall meet the
requirements of the latest revision of AWWA Standard C704 or the county,
whichever is higher. All meters shall be installed in a meter box set flush
with ground surface. The meter boxes shall be clearly marked as containing
water meters and shall be capable of withstanding vehicular traffic if set near
driveways, sidewalks or other areas subject to vehicular traffic. Meters shall
not be placed in driveways.
         (j)   Corporation valves, curb valves and bronze fittings.
Miscellaneous bronze fittings (i.e., elbows, insulation couplings) shall be
used where appropriate throughout the system, subject to the approval of the
county. Corporation and curb valves and miscellaneous bronze fittings shall
conform to the materials specifications.
         (k)   Pressure regulating stations. Pressure regulating stations shall
be required within the distribution system to control pressures between
different pressure zones. Whenever pressure reducing stations are installed
within the system they shall be located in a concrete vault and installed as
per standard drawings, and installed with enough shutoff valves and bypass
piping to facilitate quick removal and repair.
         (l)   Blow-offs (flushouts). AU blow-offs (flushouts) shall be a
minimum outlet size of and shall be designed for a minimum operating pressure
of 150 psi. A blow-off or fire hydrant shall be installed at the terminus of
all dead-end water mains or non-circulating flow water mains. The blow-off
shall be sized to provide a minimum of two feet per second velocity in the
attached main.
         (m)   Air and vacuum release valves. Air and vacuum release valves
shall be installed in the water system at all points where it is indicated that
air pockets may form. The design shall be such as to insure the release of air
automatically from the water main. These valves may also insure the entrance of
air into the water main when the pressure inside the line is below atmospheric
pressure. All valves shall be designed for a minimum of 250 psi operating
pressure. The inlet to each valve shall be provided with a gate valve or
corporation stop to provide a positive closure between the main pipeline and
the air and vacuum release valve, and the air and vacuum release vent outlet
shall be installed above ground in such manner as to preclude back-flow.
         (n)   Check valves. All check valves shall seat readily and completely
to assure water tightness. The face of the closure element and valve seat shall
be bronze, composition or other non-corrodible material that will seat lightly
under all prevailing conditions of field use. All check valves, four-inch and
larger in size, for use on distribution mains, shall be designed for a minimum
of 125 psi cold water working pressure.
      (4)   Sizing and selection of pipe.
         (a)   General. All mains will be sized by the applicant in accordance
with these standards or the supplying water agency standard, whichever is
higher. The county reserves the right to deny use of certain types of materials
in specific circumstances.
         (b)   Pipe fittings.
            1.   Joints.
               a.   Joints and fittings shall conform to applicable AWWA
specifications. Mechanical joints for straight lengths of pipe will be allowed
only when specifically approved by the Engineer.
               b.   Flange joints are required when installing four-inch and
larger line valves in steel pipe, four-inch and larger tapping sleeves, and
other fittings. No other type of joint shall be used without the specific
approval of the Engineer.
            2.   Closure fittings.
               a.   Mechanical couplings shall be of a gasketed, sleeve-type,
with diameter to properly fit the pipe; tolerance on pipe and coupling,
together with proper bolt and gasket arrangements, shall be sufficient to
ensure permanent watertight joints under all conditions.
               b.   Where pipes of different outside diameter are connected
together, or where pipe is connected to fittings of different materials, great
care shall be taken to ensure that the proper ring or adapter is selected.
            3.   Repair fittings. Repair clamps, repair sleeves, joint clamps
and similar devices shall not be used to repair or join new water mains. Pipe
damaged during installation shall be removed and replaced.
            4.   Miscellaneous pipe fittings. Adapters, plugs, end caps,
bulkheads, slip sleeves, anchor boxes, lock-joint gaskets, yokes and rods, and
other appurtenances shall be used where appropriate throughout the system,
subject to the approval of the Engineer. The county does not intend to
unreasonably limit the installation of any type of fittings, joint or
proprietary device; however, the installation of any such fitting, not
specifically approved by these standards, is subject to the approval of the
Engineer. Written request for approval of deviating items shall be made in
advance through the Engineer.
            5.   Tapping sleeves. Tapping sleeves or clamps shall be used to
tap existing water mains that are in service and under pressure without
interrupting service. No tap shall be made on any existing water main without
written consent of the County Engineer and water purveyor. Notification shall
be made a minimum of 48 hours in advance. Care shall be exercised to select
sleeves and gaskets that are properly sized to fit the type and class of pipe
to be tapped. Where four-inch or larger tapping sleeves or clamps are used, a
thrust block shall be formed and poured behind the sleeve to prevent possible
damage to the main from pressure shocks, which develop as valves are first
opened.
            6.   Line valves. Line valves shall be gate valves conforming to
the county specifications. Line valves shall be the same size as the main and
shall open to the left (counterclockwise) with resilient seat. Line valves in
ductile iron or P.V.C. pipelines shall have push-on ends. Line valves in welded
steel pipelines and in ductile iron, and cast iron, pipelines in connection
with tapping sleeves or clamps, or tee’s shall have flange ends.
         (c)   Corrosion mitigation. For all steel, cast iron or ductile iron
replacements/installations, the applicant shall provide the county with a soil
resistivity survey of the work area conducted by a corrosion specialist
certified by the National Association of Corrosion Engineers or a corrosion
engineer registered by the State of California. The submitted survey shall form
the basis for proposed mitigation measures to be submitted with the plans and
specifications for county review.
      (5)   Storage facilities.
         (a)   Design. All steel tanks, standpipes, reservoirs and elevated
tanks for water storage serving more than four services shall comply with “AWWA
D100" or A.P.I. Standard 12B Bolted or Welded Equivalent and also meet all
foundation and seismic requirements of the Building Code, and all environmental
conditions required by the project’s conditions of approval.
         (b)   Venting. Venting shall equal one and one-half times the
discharge area. A minimum four-inch discharge is required.
         (c)   Repairing and painting. All inspection, repairing, painting and
repainting of steel tanks, standpipes, reservoirs and elevated tanks for water
storage shall comply with “AWWA D102".
      (6)   Booster stations.
         (a)   General.
            1.   Pumping facilities may be needed to provide adequate water
pressure in the distribution system. The type, size and location of all pumping
stations within the distribution system shall be specifically authorized by the
Engineer. The county will prohibit the installation of pumping facilities
where, in its opinion, the installations would be injurious to the operation,
or future operation, of the distribution system.
            2.   All plans and specifications submitted to county for review
and approval of pumping stations shall be signed by and prepared by, or under
the direct supervision of, the Design Engineer.
         (b)   Environmental documentation. Environmental documentation for
pumping stations should be dealt with at an early date so that the cumulative
impacts of development can be considered. Normally, this means that special
water supply facilities, such as pumping stations, should be discussed in the
project’s environmental document. Performing environmental documentation on a
pumping station as a separate project may result in significant delays to the
applicant and can be against CEQA policies.
         (c)   Engineering and geology. It is extremely critical that no
grading occur on a potential pumping station site prior to obtaining
engineering and geologic approval of the grading plan.
      (7)   Telemetry and control systems.
         (a)   Telemetry and/or data acquisition and control systems installed
for use by the county to collect data, monitor, remotely control and coordinate
the operations of its water system, or the operations between a distributor’s
water system and the Department’s system, shall be designed and installed by
the applicant following county approval. Maintenance shall be the
responsibility of the water supplying agency.
         (b)   Connections to the existing distribution system or supply mains
will be made by the county’s water purveyor unless the county’s water purveyor
specifically grants written permission to the applicant or a contractor to make
the connection. The county’s water purveyor may install all fabricated pipe,
tapping sleeves, valves and the like supplied by the applicant/contractor that
are necessary to construct the connection and charge the applicant for any
required work.
      (8)   Materials.
         (a)   All materials furnished shall be new, undamaged and clearly
marked to allow identification during installation. Everything necessary to
complete all installations in accordance with the engineering standards of the
county shall be furnished and installed whether shown on approved drawings or
not, and all installations shall be completed as fully operable functioning
parts of the water system.
         (b)   Where mains are extended (or replaced) by the applicant, it
shall be the applicant’s responsibility to provide all materials necessary for
the installation.
         (c)   Acceptance of materials, or the waiving of inspection thereof,
shall in no way relieve the applicant of the responsibility for furnishing
materials meeting the requirements of the Materials Specifications.
         (d)   New water industry products or materials will be evaluated by
the county if the Engineer feels the product or material has some merit. The
county will establish the criteria for testing and evaluating the product.
Adequate lead time shall be allowed for testing of previously unapproved
materials so as to not delay the project. The Department reserves the right to
accept or reject any product or material regardless of the test results. The
cost of testing and evaluating shall be incurred by the applicant.
TITLE 22 CHART 1
FIGURE 23.31.062(1)
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/fb9621aeb40cfcace25e7d8581ab7f5ecac73a18/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4172.jpg]
 
Click_here_for_PDF_version_of_FIGURE_23.31.062(1)
TITLE 22 CHART 1
FIGURE 23.31.062(2)
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/fb9621aeb40cfcace25e7d8581ab7f5ecac73a18/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4175.jpg]
 
Click_here_for_PDF_version_of_FIGURE_23.31.062(2)
PUC G.O. 103
FIGURE 23.31.062(3)
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/fb9621aeb40cfcace25e7d8581ab7f5ecac73a18/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4178.jpg]
 
Click_here_for_PDF_version_of_FIGURE_23.31.062(3)
ARTICLE V. SEWER SYSTEM DESIGN STANDARDS
§ 23.31.080 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   General requirements.
      (1)   Scope.
         (a)   The design and construction of sanitary sewers, sewer pump
stations, sewer treatment plants and sewer systems, in the unincorporated area
of San Benito County subject to control or permit requirements of the county,
shall be in accordance with these minimum design standards. The work shall
comply with these standards except where specific modifications have been
approved by the County Engineer in writing.
         (b)   These requirements are applicable only when sanitary sewers do
not fall within the jurisdiction of other special districts or agencies. In the
event that such sewers are within the jurisdiction of another agency, then all
sanitary sewer improvements shall be designed and constructed in accordance
with the requirements of that agency.
         (c)   Whenever sewerage systems are to be installed in an area that
has a master sewerage plan, the facilities shall be designed as much as
possible to conform with the various elements of this plan.
      (2)   Interpretation. The County Engineer shall decide all questions of
interpretation of these design standards.
      (3)   Plumbing Code. All work on house laterals, house sewers, building
sewers, outside of public rights-of-way or sewer easements will be governed by
the provisions of the Uniform Plumbing Code as amended by these standards and
other applicable ordinances of the local sewerage agency.
      (4)   Other standards.
         (a)   Where the sections of this design manual do not cover fully, the
following additional references (latest edition) can be used, subject to
approval by the County Engineer:
            1.   “Design and construction of Sanitary and Storm Sewers” (ASCE
Manual of Engineering Practice No. 37 or WPCF Manual of Practice No. 9).
            2.   “Sewage Treatment Plant Design” (ASCE Manual of
Engineering Practice No. 36 or WPCF Manual of Practice No. 8).
            3.   “Gravity Sanitary Sewer Design and Construction” (ASCE Manual
of Engineering Practice No. 60 or WPCF Manual of Practice No. FD-5).
            4.   The Vitrified Clay Pipe Institute Engineering Handbook.
            5.   The State of California, Standard Specifications. Further
reference is made to the Health and Safety Code and Cal. Administrative Code
Title 17 relating to sewers and sewer districts. Ali work contemplated in the
county shall comply with the applicable regulations of these codes.
         (b)   In case of conflict, these county standards shall have
precedence.
   (B)   Enforcement. Provisions of these design standards shall be enforced by
the County Engineer.
      (1)   Deviations. Requests for deviations from the standards contained in
this manual should be submitted to the County Engineer. The county staff shall
make a recommendation to the County Engineer on the deviation. The final
decision on deviations from the standards will be decided by the County
Engineer.
      (2)   Waiver. The requirement for review by, and approval of, the County
Engineer for sewer plans may be waived when all of the following conditions
exists:
         (a)   The facilities are to be accepted and maintained by an
established public district or agency.
         (b)   The agency or district has adopted standards that are equivalent
to, or more restrictive than, the adopted county standards.
         (c)   The plans are prepared by the developer’s engineer and approved
by the agency’s or district’s engineer.
         (d)   The agency’s or district’s engineer is independent of the
developer and the developer’s engineer and no organizational conflicts of
interest exist.
         (e)   The agency or district’s engineer shall state by certificate
that the plans meet or exceed the minimum county standards.
         (f)   The district or agency has received written approval of the
County Engineer for waiver of the requirement by the County Engineer’s review
and approval of the plans.
   (C)   Definitions. Wherever any of the following words, or expressions or
pronouns in place of them, are used in these specifications, they shall be
understood to have the meanings given as follows.
      ADWF. Average dry weather flow.
      AWWF. Average wet weather flow = ADWF.
      INFILTRATION. The quantity of groundwater on surface water that leaks
into a pipe through joints or breaks.
      PDWF. Peak dry weather flow = ADWF x Peak Factor (PF).
      PWWF. Peak Wet Weather Flow = [ADWF x PF].
      SEWER. Sanitary sewer main.
      SEWERAGE AGENCY. The public agency or private company who owns and
operates the sewerage system.
      SEWERAGE AGENCY’S ENGINEER. Civil Engineer registered in California
employed by the sewerage agency.
§ 23.31.081 COMMUNITY SEWAGE SYSTEM DESIGN.
   (A)   Sewerage quantities.
      (1)   The following guidelines shall be used to compute average dry
weather daily flow contributing sewage.
         (a)   The quantity of wastewater that originates from a given area or
development shall be calculated from
Table 23.31.081(1).
         (b)   
Table 23.31.081(1) is based on three people per dwelling unit and 83 gals/day/
person.
         (c)   Developments that have a substantially different dwelling unit
count per acre may calculate the contributing flow instead of using
Table 23.31.081(1).
   ADWF = Dwelling units x gals/day/unit
         (d)   High density zones such as PUD or overlay (M or C) zones require
specific calculations for each development. Developments obtaining variances
from zoning restrictions and regulations, require calculations for determining
wastewater flows.
         (e)   
Table 23.31.081(1) is based on gross acreage.
         (f)   The average dry weather flow rate for each zoning area shall be
the ADWF from
Table 23.31.081(1) times the gross acreage.
   ADWF = Average Dry Weather Flow (from Table A) x gross acreage
         (g)   Computed ADWF for multi-family zoning shall be the number of
units per acre times 250 times the gross acreage.
   ADWF = Units/Acre x 250 gallons/day/unit x gross acreage
Table 23.31.081(1)
Land Use Minimum Lot Zone Name Flow Cfs/AC
Table 23.31.081(1)
Land Use Minimum Lot             Zone Name          Flow Cfs/AC
AR       40 AC                   Ag. Rangeland      .0001
AP       5 AC                    Ag. Productive     .0010
R        5 AC                    Rural              .0010
RT       2.5 AC                  Rural Transitional .0020
RR       .5 ac /1 AC             Rural Residential  .0025
R1       7,200/1 AC (W)12.5 AC   Single Fam. Res.   .0030
RM       125 ac/1 AC (vv)/2.5 AC Multiple Res.      .0040
C        All                     Commercial         .0040
M        All                     Industrial/Inst.   .0060
 
         (h)   Computed ADWF for a hotel/convention center shall be the number
of hotel units times 150 gallons/day times the gross acreage.
      (2)   Infiltration. Infiltration allowance is included in the wastewater
flows calculated above.
      (3)   Peaking factor. To compute the peak flow from the average flow, the
following peaking factor chart shall be used (Figure
23.31.081(1)).
   (B)   Sewer capacities.
      (1)   General.
         (a)   Sewers shall be designed to carry the peak flow rates (PWWF)
from all areas tributary to them. Sewers shall be designed for both size and
depth to accommodate developments in upstream tributary areas which would
logically be served by them. The peak flow rate at any point shall be the
average dry weather flow of all tributary areas times the peaking factor
(Figure 1) plus infiltration.
         (b)   Zoning shown in this section is that in effect in the San Benito
County Zoning Ordinance. Changes under consideration shall be acknowledged in
computing flows. Main sewers shall be designed and constructed to transmit the
sewage that will result from the ultimate development of the tributary area in
the subdivision. Consideration of the type of development anticipated or
existing shall be given in arriving at the design flow but in no case shall any
sewer mains be smaller than the size required by the zoning in the areas
determined by these standards with the sewer mains flowing half full. In no
case shall any sewer by less than six inches in actual inside diameter. Sewers
larger than ten inches in diameter may be designed for three-fourths flow. In
no case shall a smaller pipe be used in any location than that upstream of the
location. Sewer mains shall be designed to withstand the vertical loads that
will be imposed on them.
      (2)   Hydraulic design.
         (a)   Minimum velocity for any sanitary sewer shall be two feet per
second for pipes flowing at design capacity.
         (b)   Design velocities for sanitary sewers shall be computed using
Mannings formula with an “n” value of 0.013 flowing full. The hydraulic
elements nomograph shall be used to correct to “n” variable with depth of flow
(
Figure 23.31.081(2)).
RATIO PEAK FLOW TO AVERAGE DAILY FLOW
(Cfs x 1.7 = cu m/min)
FIGURE 23.31.081(1)
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/fb9621aeb40cfcace25e7d8581ab7f5ecac73a18/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4203.jpg]
 
Click_here_for_PDF_version_of_FIGURE_23.31.081(1)
HYDRAULICS OF SEWERS
FIGURE 23.31.081(2)
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/fb9621aeb40cfcace25e7d8581ab7f5ecac73a18/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4206.jpg]
 
Click_here_for_PDF_version_of_FIGURE_23.31.081(1)
            1.   Because sanitary sewers are to be designed with no head on the
inlet, the maximum design discharge shall not exceed the flow at critical slope
and velocity. Due to the unstable flow conditions at critical slope and
critical velocity, sanitary sewers should not be designed for these conditions,
but maximum design discharge shall not exceed flow under these conditions
regardless of greater slope.
            2.   Maximum velocities shall not exceed 16 fps.
            3.   Note. Under normal conditions, a gravity sewer shall not be
designed to flow under a head.
         (c)   Minimum size. Minimum street sewer size shall be six inches.
         (d)   Minimum sewer slopes.
            1.   Purpose. Minimum slope requirements are necessary to assure
self-cleansing and self-oxidizing velocities in order to avoid significant
generation of hazardous, odorous and corrosive sulfur compounds.
            2.   Minimum slopes. Slopes of sewers shall equal those needed to
assure the required minimum velocity.
            3.   Substandard slopes. Slopes below the minimum slopes may be
used to avoid pumping only upon specific approval of the Engineer. The approval
should be solicited well in advance of completion of design.
            4.   Pipe for substandard slopes. Pipe in substandard slope areas,
and pipe in all areas downstream from substandard slope areas to the point
where the peak flow rate is four times that in the section with substandard
slope, shall be corrosion-resistant sewer pipe.
   (C)   Sewer location.
      (1)   Roads.
         (a)   The centerline of sewers constructed in county roads shall not
be closer than four feet to the centerline of the road or closer than two feet
to the curb. In existing roads, the preferred sewer locations shall be off the
pavement edge at least two feet. Exceptions to these location requirements may
be made only on approval of the Engineer.
         (b)   The entire sanitary system shall be located as mentioned above
and shall be designed to clear all other existing or proposed utilities by a
minimum of six inches.
      (2)   Water-sewer separation. The state’s Department of Health
requirements for separation shall be met in locating sewers. A minimum of ten
feet horizontal separation between water and sewer lines shall be maintained.
      (3)   Easements. Location of sewer lines in easements shall be kept to a
minimum. Whenever possible, sewers shall be placed in the public roadway. Where
sewer lines are located within easements, the easements shall be as follows:
         (a)   Granted with final map;
         (b)   Be granted to the entity accepting and maintaining the sewers;
         (c)   Be dedicated to and accepted by San Benito County;
         (d)   The minimum width of any easement for sanitary sewer purposes
shall be ten feet. In special cases of terrain, depth of sewer line and the
like, the required width may be modified with the approval of the County
Engineer; and
         (e)   All easements shall include right of ingress and egress over
adjoining property for maintenance, replacement and operation. No permanent
structures shall be constructed in such easements, except fences, and except
utilities that are subject of any overlapping easement.
      (4)   Future extensions. When an area outside the proposed project can be
logically served by future extension of a proposed sewer, the proposed sewer
shall extend to the proposed project boundary or to the end of a paved street
as determined by the County Engineer in a manner to facilitate the future
extension.
      (5)   Alignment. Sewers shall be laid on a straight alignment and grade
between manholes except that curved sewers may be used subject to the following
requirements:
         (a)   All curve data shall be shown on plans.
         (b)   Minimum radius of curvature and joint deflections shall be as
recommended by the pipe manufacturer and approved by the Public Works
Department.
         (c)   All deflections shall be at the pipe joints or by specially
metered pipe sections. Actual bending of the pipe itself will not be allowed.
         (d)   A manhole shall be constructed at either the B.C. or E.C. of all
curves.
         (e)   Vertical curves may be used in combination with horizontal
curves. Where vertical curves are used, the sewer shall be sized for the
flattest slope within the curve.
         (f)   Maximum combined horizontal and vertical deflection at any joint
shall be as recommended by the manufacturers but in no case more than three
feet.
         (g)   The arithmetic sum of all horizontal and vertical deflection in
curved sewers between adjacent manholes shall not exceed 60 degrees.
   (D)   Depth of sewers.
      (1)   Basic requirements. Sewers shall be installed at a depth that will
provide suitable service to the properties connected and will allow subsequent
installation of water lines in accordance with the water/sewer separation rules
so as to require a minimum of special construction of the water lines other
than joint spacing.
      (2)   Standard depths. Minimum cover for any sewer main shall be four
feet within the street section, and three feet in sewer easements. Any
deviation from this cover shall require special design and approval by the
County Engineer.
      (3)   Exceptions.
         (a)   Special pipe cover shall be used when total cover over public
and house connection sewers is less than four feet, and may be required when
total cover will not be placed immediately after pipe installations, or when
other special conditions exist.
            1.   Two to four feet of cover shall require the use of ductile
iron pipe or other approved bedding or encasement.
            2.   Less than two feet of cover shall require encasement. In no
case will cover less than one foot be permitted.
         (b)   All pipelines shall be designed and constructed to a safety
factor of one and one-half. The Engineer, during design, shall consider impact
and dead loads imposed upon the pipe both during construction and after
construction. The construction plans shall show any required special pipe-zone
considerations.
   (E)   Structures.
      (1)   Manholes.
         (a)   Locations.
            1.   Manholes shall be located at all abrupt changes in alignment
or grade and at all junctions.
            2.   Manholes shall be located at least every 400 feet along lines
smaller than 24 inches in diameter and larger will usually be at 400 feet but
may be extended subject to the approval of the Engineer.
         (b)   Drop manholes. Drop manholes shall be constructed in accordance
with standard drawings and shall be used wherever sewers enter manholes at more
than 24 inches above the outlet elevation of the manhole. Vertical curves may
be used to eliminate drop manholes with approval of the Engineer.
         (c)   Design.
            1.   Manholes shall be constructed in accordance with standard
drawings. Manhole designs, which in the opinion of the Engineer, provide access
to the mains, a stable working platform, and freedom from splash and
turbulence, equivalent to or better than the design shown herein, will be
approved.
            2.   Grades of the channels within manholes shall be as follows
(except where the sewerage agency has different requirements):
               a.   When the main channel flows straight through the manholes,
carry the upstream and downstream pipe grades to the center of the manhole.
               b.   When the main channel curves through the manhole, in
addition to the pipe grades, provide additional fall in the invert equal to the
loss in energy head to be expected.
            3.   For side inlets to manholes where the pipe size is less than
the main line, align the pipe soffit of the side inlet with that of the main
inlet.
            4.   For side inlets to manholes when the pipe size is the same as
the main, provide a drop of 0.1 feet between the inlet invert and the invert of
the outlet of the main line.
         (d)   Protection. Where new proposed sewers are to be connected into a
manhole in active use, the designer shall call for such protection as is
necessary to prevent construction debris from being washed into the active
sewers. Plugged inlets or other suitable protection shall be called for in the
active manhole before beginning manhole modifications or proposed sewer
cleaning.
         (e)   Elevations. Finished elevations of frames and covers shall be
set in relation to finished grades of the completed road surface or finished
surrounding grade when outside of roads.
      (2)   Cleanouts.
         (a)   Requirements. Dead end sewers not over 200 feet in length shall
terminate in standard manholes or cleanouts. Dead ends over 200 feet long shall
terminate in standard manholes unless future extension of the dead end will
include a manhole within 400 feet of the upper-most manhole, in which case a
temporary cleanout is permitted. Where dead ends are on a slope of 0.01 or
greater, the length for use of a cleanout may be extended to 300 feet.
         (b)   Location. Unless greater length is necessary to serve the
property, end structures shall be placed ten feet beyond the down grade
property line on the last lot served.
         (c)   Design. Cleanouts shall be constructed generally in accordance
with standard drawings.
      (3)   Service laterals.
         (a)   Requirements. Wherever it is known or can be reasonably assumed
that a building sewer connection is required, a service lateral shall be shown
on the plans and installed to the property line as a part of the street sewer
construction, prior to paving. Service laterals shall be installed whenever
possible during construction of the sewer main using prefabricated fittings.
         (b)   Size. Service laterals for single dwellings and small single
stores or offices shall be four inches or larger providing the Plumbing Code
does not require the building sewer to be larger than four inches. All other
service laterals shall be six inches or larger and at least equal to the size
of the building sewer.
         (c)   Depth. Service laterals shall be at the minimum depths herein
provided and in addition such depth shall be sufficient to provide a connection
to any point on the lot within the established building setback lines (eluding
any area steeper than five horizontally to one vertically) with a cover of one
foot and a slope of not less than 0.02. Any exception to this requirement must
have approval by the County Engineer.
         (d)   Design. Service laterals shall be constructed in conformity with
standard drawings.
         (e)   Future connections. Unused openings shall be tightly sealed and
supported in a manner to facilitate their future location and use.
         (f)   Backflow prevention. Sewers shall be designed to preclude the
backflow of sewage into laterals. If it is infeasible to install the waste
receiving inlets from any building at least one foot higher than the rim
elevation of the next upstream manhole, or other structure providing hydraulic
relief, then backflow prevention devices shall be provided.
         (g)   Connection to cesspools or septic tanks. Cesspool seepage pits
shall not be connected to any public sewer. Septic tanks shall not be connected
to any public sewer except where part of an approved septic tank effluent
pumping (STEP) design.
         (h)   Curb markings. The location of all sewer service laterals shall
be marked by an “S” cast into the concrete of the curb at completion of
construction.
      (4)   Structures and pipes.
         (a)   Roads. All structures and pipe placed under public roads shall
be of sufficient strength to support with an adequate factor of safety the
backfill, road surfacing and HS20 and alternative truck loading with impact.
         (b)   Other pipes and structures. Sewers under other pipes and
structures shall be protected from damage and shall be constructed so as not to
endanger the other pipe or structure. The concrete blanket method is not
required where the distance between the outside of crossing pipes exceeds 12
inches unless required by water-sewer separation rule.
         (c)   Flexible joints. Flexible joints that allow for differential
settlements or other movement of sewer pipe, sewer structures, adjacent pipe
and adjacent structures shall be provided where sewer lines enter encasements,
manholes or other structures. Flexible joints shall be within one foot of the
structures and shall be indicated on the plans.
      (5)   Force mains and lift stations.
         (a)   Requirements. All sewage shall reach the system by gravity flow,
in a fresh condition susceptible to conventional sewage treatment processes.
Where extreme hardship conditions prevail and a substantial area cannot be
sewered by gravity sewers in accordance with these requirements, a sewage
pumping station may be installed. No pumping facilities shall be incorporated
in sewer plans without approval of the Engineer.
         (b)   Lift stations design. Lift stations, where allowed, shall
incorporate the following features:
            1.   Pumps or other devices shall be duplex. Minimum desirable size
is four inches. Maximum velocity in suction is five feet per second;
            2.   Capacity shall be provided to handle ultimate peak flow from
the tributary area with the largest pump out of service. Stage installation of
pumps is allowed providing space is provided for future installations;
            3.   Access shall be provided to site for removal and repair of
equipment;
            4.   A means of dewatering force mains shall be provided;
            5.   The lift station shall not be in county road right-of-way
except with permission from the Engineer;
            6.   Paint all machinery and piping;
            7.   Provide an approved high-water and power failure alarm; and
            8.   County shall be provided with complete manufacturer’s
brochures, technical data, O&M manuals and the like for all equipment and
controls.
         (c)   Submersible lift station design. Lift stations shall meet the
minimum requirements of “SWPA Handbook, Submersible Sewage Pumping Systems” by
Submersible Wastewater Pump Association. Pumps shall be rail mounted with
automatic disconnect.
         (d)   Structural. Structures shall be reinforced concrete, fiberglass
and epoxy coated steel. In residential areas, structures shall be below ground.
Provide a hatch suitable for the removal and replacement of major equipment
components. Hatches shall be spring loaded (Bilco type) with metal provided in
brass, stainless steel or aluminum materials. Where applicable, provide
equipment-lifting eyes in roof of station. All structures shall have ample
working room around machinery. Minimum clearance to wall shall be 24 inches or
greater as needed for adequate maintenance.
         (e)   Mechanical and piping. The design shall satisfy the minimum
requirements of the state’s Health Code. A reduced pressure principle device or
air gap is required on all domestic water connections. A one-inch metered
connection is to be provided adjacent to the station. Provide an automatic air
blower system to exchange air every six minutes minimum. Provide an automatic
sump pump (slope floor to sump) with check valve in discharge pipe to wet well.
Provide standby capacity equal to the largest single unit. Make provisions for
standby emergency power connection for use during power outages. Sump pumps and
air blowers shall be easily removable for maintenance.
         (f)   Actuation of pumps. Provide switch to alternate lead pump in
system. The control system shall be an approved electronic type.
         (g)   Electrical. All electrical installations shall comply with the
National Electrical Code and Division of Industrial Safety requirements and
County of San Benito Electrical Code. Use enclosed prefabricated electrical
panels mounted above ground level outside the pump station. Provide running
time meters for all motors (use reset type). Provide explosion-proof electrical
appurtenances below ground or an approved type disconnect and time delay.
Provide separate blower system within all electrical panels located below
ground. Provide an approved type alternator and float switches. A manual switch
adjacent to the motor that will override the control panel shall be provided.
Switch shall be mounted at motor height. Adequate lighting and electrical
outlets shall be provided. Outlets shall be mounted at motor height. Color code
all wiring and piping (National Standard Coding).
         (h)   Force main design. Force mains need not comply with the
requirements for gravity sewers. Force mains shall be designed in accordance
with good engineering practice. Velocity shall be between two and ten feet per
second.
      (6)   Treatment and disposal.
         (a)   General.
            1.   Treatment facilities shall include all necessary components
and amenities as required by the county to ensure a complete, automated,
operating facility that will lead itself to minimum maintenance and operational
costs.
            2.   Storage or auxiliary pumping capacity shall be provided as
required to prevent overflow during power outages, the duration of which shall
be based on power company records and projections for the area in which the
facilities will be constructed.
         (b)   Regulatory standards. Pertinent requirements of the following
agency standards, including all changes thereto, shall be considered and
complied with, except that in the event of conflict, the stricter design
criteria shall govern.
            1.   Laws and standards of State of California Department of Public
Health;
            2.   The Porter-Cologne Water Quality Control Act and the Regional
Water Quality Control Board;
            3.   Ordinances of the County of San Benito; and
            4.   Others as appropriate
         (c)   Design reports. A design for the proposed project to be
constructed shall be submitted to and approved by the county. In addition to
general requirements of this standard, the following requirements apply:
            1.   An engineering report on the development of the site including
but not limited to soils survey, geology, ground and surface water hydrology,
water supply, liquid waste disposal, probable population densities, effects of
construction and other development activities on the existing environment and
conformance with the master regional or county plans.
            2.   A master plan relating to the disposal of wastes anticipated
from the ultimate development; the plan shall conform to the regional or county
master plan for sewage disposal. Stage development may be acceptable for some
components of the system if the stage development can be proved financially
feasible and if approved by the county.
            3.   The filing of a report on the proposed waste discharge in the
county’s name by the developer, accompanied by the appropriate filing fee and
pursuant to Cal. Water Code § 13260 (unless the waste is to be discharged into
an existing community sewerage system), to the Central Coast Regional Water
Quality Control Board.
         (d)   Access. All weather access shall be provided to all major
functional units. A minimum width of 12 feet is required. Turnaround area for
the largest service vehicle shall be provided per CALTRANS standards.
         (e)   Structures.
            1.   Shall provide protection against weather and vandalism, shall
be designed to blend architecturally with the character of the development, and
shall provide maximum efficiency and minimum operational and maintenance costs
to the district.
            2.   Laboratory storage and/or warehouse facilities may be required
where the new development cannot practically utilize existing county
facilities. An “in-lieu” fee will be required where it is practical to expand
existing county facilities to accommodate new development.
         (f)   Treatment process. Removal requirements for treatment processes
will be as required by the waste discharge requirements issued by the Regional
Water Quality Control Board, but in no event shall the five-day biological
oxygen demand reduction be less than 85% using sampling procedures reflecting
plant flow through time. Process design shall be based on the larger of the
design flow rate requirements or the average five-day BOD requirements.
Comminution equipment will be required.
         (g)   Outside lighting. All mechanical areas shall be adequately
lighted for night operation and maintenance.
         (h)   Metering, recording and monitoring equipment.
            1.   Treatment plants.
               a.   Metering, recording and monitoring equipment shall be
provided at all treatment plants. All such equipment shall be compatible with
existing county equipment.
               b.   Generally, but not necessarily limited to, requirements are
as follows:
                  (i)   Flow meter and recorder;
                  (ii)   Recording, continuous reading chlorine analyzer to
detect chlorine residual and equipped with adjustable low and high alarm
contacts; and
                  (iii)   Radio monitoring and alarm equipment.
            2.   Pumping stations.
               a.   Flow meter and recorder (when required); and
               b.   Radio monitoring and alarm equipment.
         (i)   Chlorination facilities. Chlorination facilities consist of gas
chlorinator(s) and their associated equipment. Chlorinators shall be capable of
pacing sewerage flows either by a flow proportional chlorinator or a series of
individual chlorinators activated from the pump control panel as approved by
the District. Installations shall be provided with a continuous chlorine
monitor to detect chlorine residual and shall have adjustable high and low
alarm contacts. Final effluent standards shall meet RWQCB standards.
Chlorination contact facilities shall be designed to provide not less than 30
minutes contact time at peak discharge rate and shall be arranged to permit
bacteriological and chemical sampling of the effluent.
         (j)   Design flow rate.
            1.   Waste stabilization lagoons, aerated lagoons and similar
process with long detention times - average dry weather flow (ADWF).
            2.   Extended aeration plants - 50% of peak flow (PF) but not less
than the average dry weather flow (ADWF).
         (k)   Effluent disposal.
            1.   Unless a development can be connected to an existing sewage
system, all effluent must be disposed of in accordance with the Discharge
requirements of the Regional Water Quality Control Board. On-site disposal must
be substantiated by soils, geological, hydrological and related studies, and
this resultant report submitted to the county.
            2.   Effluent must be contained within the disposal site and
metering and recording devices must be installed to measure any runoff from the
disposal area.
            3.   Drainage structures must be capable of passing a 100-year
event.
§ 23.31.082 ON-SITE SYSTEMS.
   (A)   General. For those sites for which on-site sewer system is approved by
the County, the on-site system shall meet the requirements of “Minimum
Guidelines for the Control of Individual Wastewater Treatment and Disposal
Systems” by CRWQCB, and “Manual of Septic Tank Practice” by U.S. Department of
Health, Education and Welfare. Where there is a conflict in requirements, the
more stringent requirements shall apply. Cesspools and drainage wells are
prohibited.
   (B)   Sewerage quantities. The guidelines outlined herein and in the
references cited above shall be used to compute the average daily flow.
§ 23.31.083 MATERIALS.
   (A)   Requirements. Materials shall be chosen for their strength, durability
and ease of maintenance, with due consideration for dead and live loads, beam
strength and resistance to corrosion. Pipe joints shall be selected to provide
positive protection against entrance of roots and groundwater, and sufficient
flexibility to adjust to the trench bedding. In general, the joints shall be
non-rigid, and the joint sealer shall be restrained against lateral and axial
movement. The installed joint shall provide positive separation between
adjoining pipe sections to prevent failure of rigid materials by axial
expansion during wetting.
   (B)   Pipe material.
      (1)   Corrosion resistant sewer pipe material. Shall be: vitrified clay;
poly (vinyl chloride), type psm or psp; acrylonitrilebutadiene-styrene (abs),
solid wall; reinforced plastic mortar; or other material approved by the
Engineer.
      (2)   Other sewer pipe material. Not required to be corrosion resistant
shall be any of the materials listed herein, reinforced concrete; unreinforced
concrete, cast iron or other material approved by the Engineer.
   (C)   Concrete. Concrete for sewer structures and sewer pipe encasement
shall be Class B unless otherwise shown herein or approved by the Engineer.
TITLE 25: ZONING
   Chapter
      
25.01.   GENERAL PROVISIONS AND ADMINISTRATION
      
25.02.   PERMITS AND OTHER PLANNING ACTIONS
      
25.03.   ZONING MAP AND ZONING DISTRICTS
      
25.04.   COMBINING ZONES
      
25.05.   PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENTS
      
25.06.   SPECIFIC PLANS
      
25.07.   GENERAL DEVELOPMENT AND DESIGN STANDARDS
      
25.08.   STANDARDS FOR SPECIFIC USES AND AREAS
      
25.09.   GLOSSARY
CHAPTER 25.01: GENERAL PROVISIONS AND ADMINISTRATION
Section
   
25.01.001   General provisions and applicability
   
25.01.002   Purpose
   
25.01.003   Relationship to prior ordinances, rights, and violations
   
25.01.004   Severability
   
25.01.005   Relationship to the general plan
   
25.01.006   Authorities
   
25.01.007   Public hearing procedures and noticing
   
25.01.008   Appeals
   
25.01.009   Interpretations
   
25.01.010   Enforcement of this zoning code
   
25.01.011   Amendments to the general plan, zoning code, and zoning map
   
25.01.012   Non-conforming uses, structures, and sites
   
25.01.013   Application forms and fee
§ 25.01.001 GENERAL PROVISIONS AND APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   The zoning code codified in this title provides for the division of
the county into districts, within each of which the uses of land and buildings
and the height and bulk of buildings and the open spaces about them are
regulated as specified. The regulations established within the zoning ordinance
apply throughout the county, unless an adopted specific plan for an area within
the county sets forth alternate regulations, in which case the regulations in
the specific plan shall control.
   (B)   The construction or operations of San Benito County government
buildings and facilities shall not be regulated by the provisions of this
zoning code.
(Ord. 1043, § 3 (part), 2022)
§ 25.01.002 PURPOSE.
   This zoning code (this title) is adopted to promote and protect the public
health, safety, peace, moral, comfort, convenience, and general welfare and for
the accomplishment thereof and is adopted among other purposes for the
following more particularly specified purposes:
   (A)   To assist in providing a definite plan of development for the county,
and to guide, control and regulate the future growth of the county in
accordance with this title;
   (B)   Achieve the arrangement of land uses depicted in the San Benito County
General Plan, consistent with the goals and policies of the general plan;
   (C)   To protect the character and the social and economic stability of
agricultural, residential, commercial, industrial and other areas within the
county and to assure the orderly and beneficial development of the areas;
   (D)   Facilitate the appropriate location of community facilities,
institutions, transportation, and parks and recreational areas;
   (E)   Allow for public participation in government decision-making regarding
land use and development in a manner consistent with state law;
   (F)   Define duties and powers of administrative bodies and officers
responsible for implementation of the zoning code.
(Ord. 1043, § 3 (part), 2022)
§ 25.01.003 RELATIONSHIP TO PRIOR ORDINANCES, RIGHTS, AND VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   The provisions of this title supersede all prior ordinances codified
in Title 25 of the San Benito Code and any amendments. No provisions of this
title shall validate any land use or structure established, constructed, or
maintained in violation of the prior zoning code, unless such validation is
specifically authorized by this title and is in conformance with all other
regulations.
   (B)   The regulations of this title and requirements or conditions imposed
pursuant to this title shall also not supersede any other regulations or
requirements adopted or imposed by the San Benito County Board of Supervisors,
the State of California, or any federal agency that has jurisdiction by law
over uses and development authorized by this title. All uses and development
authorized by this title shall comply with all other such regulations and
requirements. Where conflict occurs between the provisions of this title and
any other county ordinance, chapter, resolution, guideline, or regulation, the
more restrictive provisions shall control, unless otherwise specified.
(Ord. 1043, § 3 (part), 2022)
§ 25.01.004 SEVERABILITY.
   If any section, subsection, paragraph, sentence, clause, or phrase of this
title is for any reason held to be invalid or unconstitutional by the decision
of any court of competent jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the
validity of the remaining portions of this title. The County Board of
Supervisors hereby declares that it would have passed this title, and each
section, subsection, sentence, clause, and phrase thereof, regardless of the
fact that any or one or more sections, subsections, sentences, clauses, or
phrases be declared invalid or unconstitutional.
(Ord. 1043, § 3 (part), 2022)
§ 25.01.005 RELATIONSHIP TO THE GENERAL PLAN.
   This title implements the goals and policies of the county’s general plan by
regulating the use of land and structures within the county. This title shall
be consistent with the general plan. Any permit, license, or approval issues
pursuant to this title must be consistent with the general plan and all
applicable specific plans. In any case where there is a conflict between this
title and the general plan, the general plan shall control.
(Ord. 1043, § 3 (part), 2022)
§ 25.01.006 AUTHORITIES.
   (A)   Purpose. This chapter lays out the basic roles, responsibilities, and
functions of all planning authorities, including the Board of Supervisors,
Planning Commission, and Planning Director.
   (B)   Board of Supervisors. The powers and responsibilities of the Board of
Supervisors include, but are not limited to the following. The relationship of
the Board of Supervisors to the Planning Commission and staff in the approval
process is shown in
Table 25.01-A, “Review Authorities.”
      (1)   Consider and adopt, reject or modify proposed amendments to the
general plan, zoning code, zoning map, development agreements, specific plans,
and environmental documents related to any of the foregoing, pursuant to the
provisions of the amendments to the general plan, zoning code, and zoning map
section in
Chapter 25.01.
      (2)   Hear and decide appeals from decisions of the Planning Commission
pursuant to the provisions of the appeals section in
Chapter 25.01.
      (3)   Consider and adopt, reject, or modify development agreements,
following a public hearing and recommended action by the Planning Commission,
pursuant the provisions of the development agreements section in
Chapter 25.01.
      (4)   Establish, by resolution, a county fee schedule listing fees,
charges, and deposits for various applications and services provided, pursuant
to this title.
   (C)   Planning Commission. The powers and responsibilities of the Planning
Commission include, but are not limited to the following. The relationship of
the Planning Commission to the Board of Supervisors and staff in the approval
process is shown in
Table 25.01-A, “Review Authorities.”
      (1)   Approve, modify, or deny parcel maps, tentative maps, conditional
use permits and variances.
      (2)   Make recommendations to the Board of Supervisors on development
agreements.
      (3)   Make recommendations to the Board of Supervisors on proposed
amendments to the general plan, zoning code, and zoning map, specific plans,
and environmental documents related to any of the foregoing.
      (4)   Hear and decide appeals from decisions of the Planning Director.
      (5)   Hear and decide proposals to revoke permits.
      (6)   Consider and adopt environmental determinations on any approvals
that are subject to environmental review under the California Environmental
Quality Act, pursuant to state law.
      (7)   Annually review progress towards implementation of the general plan
and make recommendations to the Board of Supervisors based on any new
legislation, development trends, or changing economic, social, and
environmental conditions.
      (8)   Such other powers and responsibilities as assigned or directed by
the Board of Supervisors.
   (D)   Planning Director. The powers and responsibilities of the Planning
Director (“the Director”), or his/her designee, include, but are not limited to
the following. The relationship of the Planning Director to the Board of
Supervisors and Planning Commission in the approval process is shown in
Table 25.01-A, “Review Authorities.”
      (1)   Perform all the functions designated by state law, including, but
not limited to the following:
         (a)   Annual report related to implementation of the general plan in
compliance with Cal. Gov’t Code § 65400;
         (b)   Review of public works projects for conformity to the General
Plan in compliance with Cal. Gov’t Code § 65401; and
         (c)   Review of acquisition of property for conformity to the General
Plan in compliance with Cal. Gov’t Code § 65402.
      (2)   Maintain and administer the zoning code, including the processing
of applications, abatements, and other enforcement actions.
      (3)   Clarify or make determinations when ambiguities exist with regard
to the meaning of any provision of this Code or their application to a specific
parcel or project.
      (4)   Prepare rules and procedures necessary for conducting the
Director’s business. They may include the administrative details of hearings
officiated by the Director (e.g., scheduling, rules of procedure, and
recordkeeping). These rules and procedures must be approved by Board of
Supervisors resolution, following review and recommendation by the Planning
Commission.
      (5)   Issue administrative regulations for the submission and review of
applications subject to the requirements of Cal. Gov’t Code § 65950, Deadlines
for Project Approval Conformance; Extensions.
      (6)   Issue a zoning clearance pursuant to provisions of the zoning
clearance section in §
25.01.012.
      (7)   Approve, modify, or deny administrative use permits, pursuant to
the provisions of the use permits section in §
25.02.002.
      (8)   Approve, modify, or deny home occupation permits and rural home
enterprises, pursuant to the provisions of §
25.08.004.
      (9)   Approve, modify, or deny temporary use permits, pursuant to the
provisions of the temporary use permits section in §
25.01.004.
      (10)   Approve, modify, or deny a minor modification, pursuant to the
provisions of the administrative modifications section in §
25.02.008.
      (11)   Approve, modify, or deny requests for reasonable accommodation for
land use projects, pursuant to the provisions of the reasonable accommodation
section in §
25.02.010.
      (12)   Conduct minor development plan review and approve, modify, or deny
land use projects pursuant to the provisions of the design review section in §
25.02.001.
      (13)   Determine whether a project is subject to review under the
California Environmental Quality Act and notify the applicant if any additional
information is necessary to conduct the review.
      (14)   Make recommendations to the Planning Commission and Board of
Supervisors on all applications, appeals, and other matters upon which they
have the authority and the responsibility to act under this title.
      (15)   Investigate and report to the Planning Commission on permit
violations when the County has initiated revocation procedures, pursuant to the
provisions of the revocation of permits section in § 25.02.013.
      (16)   Delegate administrative functions to members of the Planning
Division.
      (17)   Such other powers and responsibilities as assigned or directed by
the Board of Supervisors.
   (E)   Summary of review authorities for decisions and appeals. Table 25.01-
A, below, identifies the Review Authority responsible for reviewing and making
decisions on each type of application required by the zoning code.
   Table 25.01-A: Review Authorities
 
                 Applicable Code   Role of Review Authority
Type of Action   Section           Director  Planning Commission Board of
                                                                 Supervisors
Legislative Actions
Development
agreements and   County Code 19.11 Recommend Recommend           Decision
amendments
Zoning code and
zoning map       25.01.011         Recommend Recommend           Decision
amendments
General plan and
specific plan    25.01.011         Recommend Recommend           Decision
amendments
 
               Applicable Code Role of Review Authority
Type of Action Section         Director Planning Commission Board of
                                                            Supervisors
Planning Permits, Approvals, and Administrative Actions
                    Applicable Code Role of Review Authority
Type of Action      Section         Director  Planning Commission Board of
                                                                  Supervisors
Planning Permits, Approvals, and Administrative Actions
Administrative use  25.02.002       Decision  Appeal              Appeal
permits
Conditional use     25.02.003       Recommend Decision            Appeal
permits: Adoption
Modification and
revocation of       25.02.012       Recommend Decision            Appeal
permits
Temporary use       25.02.004       Decision  Appeal              Appeal
permits
Temporary event     25.02.005       Decision  Appeal              Appeal
permits
Sign permits        25.07.016       Decision  Appeal              Appeal
Minor modifications 25.02.008       Decision  Appeal              Appeal
Variances           25.02.009       Recommend Decision            Appeal
Planned             25.05           Recommend Decision            Appeal
developments
Reasonable          25.02.010       Decision  Appeal              Appeal
accommodations
Development plan    25.02.001       Decision  Appeal              Appeal
review
Home occupation and
rural home          25.08.004       Decision  Appeal              Appeal
enterprise permits
Nonconforming uses,
structures and      25.01.012       Decision  Appeal              Appeal
sites
Interpretations of  25.01.009       Decision  Appeal              Appeal
this zoning code
Zoning clearances   25.02.011       Issue     Appeal              Appeal
Zoning district                               Appeal (Decision in
boundary            25.01.009       Decision  Some Cases)         Appeal
determinations
 
Table Notes
1.   “Recommend” means that the Review Authority makes a recommendation to a higher
decision-making body; “Decision” means that the Review Authority makes the final
decision on the matter; “Issue” means that the Director grants the zoning clearance
after confirming compliance with all applicable provisions of this zoning code; and
“Appeal” means that the Review Authority may consider and decide upon appeals to
the decision of an earlier decision- making body.
2.   When necessary, the Director may defer action and refer the request to the
Planning Commission for consideration and final decision or may bring an action
from the Planning Commission to be made by the Director.
3.   When necessary, the Planning Commission may defer action and provide a
recommendation to the Board of Supervisors for consideration and final decision.
(Ord. 1043, § 3 (part), 2022)
§ 25.01.007 PUBLIC HEARING PROCEDURES AND NOTICING.
   (A)   Noticing requirements. Notice of public hearings shall be provided
consistent with county procedures specified in this Code and Cal. Gov’t Code §§
65090 through 65096.
   (B)   Conduct of public hearings. The conduct of public hearing(s) shall
include the following elements identified below.
      (1)   Discretionary review. At the public hearing, the authorized hearing
body shall review the application and any pertinent materials submitted with
the application, and any report based on county staff’s investigation of the
application.
      (2)   The applicant’s rights at public hearing. During any public
hearing, the applicant for the application shall have the right to be
represented to provide testimony and to present evidence.
      (3)   The public’s rights at public hearing. All other persons shall have
the right to comment on any relevant aspect of the application under
consideration.
      (4)   Discretionary action. Following the completion of testimony at a
public hearing, action shall be taken to approve, conditionally approve, deny,
continue, or take under advisement, the subject of the public hearing.
      (5)   Continuation of public hearing. If the action is taken to continue
the item being considered or to take the matter under advisement, before
adjournment or recess, the person presiding at the public hearing shall
publicly announce the time and place to which the hearing will be continued. No
further notice shall be required.
      (6)   Final decision. The decision of the hearing body shall be
considered final unless a decision is appealed. In all cases, the Board of
Supervisors shall represent the final authority.
(Ord. 1043, § 3 (part), 2022)
§ 25.01.008 APPEALS.
   (A)   Appeal of Director’s decisions. Any discretionary decision of the
Director may be appealed to the Planning Commission within ten calendar days
after the date of the decision. An appeal shall be in writing and submitted to
the Director in the form provided by the Planning Department, which shall be
accompanied by the required filing fee. The Planning Commission shall render
its decision within 30 days following the close of the hearing on the appeal.
   (B)   Appeal of Planning Commission decisions. Any decision of the Planning
Commission may be appealed within ten calendar days after the date of the
Planning Commission’s decision to the Board of Supervisors. The appeal shall be
submitted in writing to the County Clerk on the forms provided by the County,
which shall be accompanied by the required fee.
      (1)   Upon receipt of a completed appeal, the Director shall set the
matter for hearing before the Board of Supervisors not less than five days or
more than 30 days thereafter and shall give written notice of the hearing to
the appellant, the applicant and the Planning Director.
      (2)   The Board of Supervisors shall render its decision within 30 days
following the close of the hearing on the appeal.
(Ord. 1043, § 3 (part), 2022)
§ 25.01.009 INTERPRETATIONS.
   (A)   Location and boundaries of zone. The designation, location and
boundaries of the aforementioned zones and areas shall be by written
description or by delineation on zoning maps which shall be adopted as
specified in this title. The maps and written legal descriptions shall become a
part of the zoning ordinance under this section and subject thereto. These maps
and descriptions are not codified.
   (B)   Determining uncertain zoning district boundaries.
      (1)   The Director shall make decisions regarding uncertain zoning
district boundaries. The Director’s decision may be appealed to the Planning
Commission.
      (2)   Where uncertainty exists with respect to the boundaries of the
various zones, the following rules shall be used in determining the following:
         (a)   Where boundary lines are indicated as following streets and
alleys they shall be construed as following the centerlines thereof.
         (b)   Where boundary lines are indicated as approximately following
lot lines, the lot lines shall be construed to be the boundaries.
         (c)   Where a boundary line divides a lot or crosses unsubdivided
property, the location of the boundary shall be as indicated upon the zoning
map using the scale appearing on the map.
         (d)   Where a lot held in one ownership and of record at the effective
date of the ordinance codified in this title is divided by a district boundary
line, the entire lot shall be construed to be within the less restricted
district; provided, that this regulation shall not apply if it increases the
area of the less restricted portion of the lot by more than 20%.
      (3)   Where further uncertainty exists, the Planning Commission upon
written application, or upon its own motion, may by resolution determine the
location of a disputed boundary, giving due consideration to the apparent
indicated location thereof and the scale of the zoning map and the expressed
intent of this title.
      (4)   Wherever any property is not, under these rules, specifically
included in any district shown on the zoning map, the property is declared to
be in an agricultural zone or as determined by the Planning Commission.
   (C)   Use determination. Determination of land uses not specifically listed
in
Chapter 25.03 (Zoning Map and Districts) shall be reviewed and determined by
the Director per the provisions below.
      (1)   Director’s determination. The Director has the authority to
determine when a proposed land use that is not listed in
Chapter 25.03 (Zoning Map and Districts) is similar to another listed use that
is permitted or administratively permitted if the following findings can be
made:
         (a)   The characteristics of, and activities associated with, the
proposed use are equivalent to those of one or more of the uses listed in the
zoning district as allowable, and will not involve a greater level of activity,
population density, intensity, traffic generation, parking, dust, odor, noise,
or similar impacts as determined by special environmental studies as required
by the Director, than the uses listed in the zoning district;
         (b)   The proposed use will meet the purpose/intent of the zoning
district that is applied to the location of the use;
         (c)   The proposed use will be consistent with the goals, objectives,
and policies of the general plan, or any applicable specific plan or planned
development district; and
         (d)   The proposed use is not prohibited or illegal.
      (2)   Planning Commission appeal. The Director’s decision regarding a use
determination can be appealed to the Planning Commission.
      (3)   Applicable standards and permit requirements. When the Director or
Planning Commission determines that a proposed but unlisted land use is
equivalent to a listed use, the proposed use will be treated in the same manner
as the listed use in determining where the use is allowed, what permits are
required, and what other standards and requirements of this zoning code apply.
(Ord. 1043, § 3 (part), 2022)
§ 25.01.010 ENFORCEMENT OF THIS ZONING CODE.
   (A)   Purpose. This section establishes the responsibilities of various
departments, officials, and public employees of the County to enforce the
requirements of this zoning code and establishes uniform procedures the County
will use to identify, abate, remove, and enjoin uses, buildings, or structures
that are deemed to be in violation of this title.
   (B)   Enforcement responsibilities. All departments, officials and public
employees of the County vested with the duty or authority to issue permits,
certificates or licenses shall comply with the provisions of this title and
shall issue no permit, certificate or license for uses, buildings or purposes
which may be in conflict with the provisions of this title and any such permit,
certificate or license issued in conflict with the provisions of this title,
intentionally or otherwise, shall be null and void.
      (1)   Director. The Director shall enforce the provisions of this title
pertaining to the use of any land or structure, bulk, height and land coverage
of structures, open spaces about structures and the dimensions and area of
sites upon which structures are located.
      (2)   Other officials. Requirements pertaining to health and sanitation,
fire protection and building code regulations shall be enforced by the
respective agencies which have jurisdiction in such matters. Whenever there is
a conflict between the provisions of this title and other county, state and
federal regulations, the more restrictive regulations apply.
   (C)   Revocation.
      (1)   Any permit granted under this title may be revoked if any of the
conditions or terms of such permit are violated or if any law or ordinance is
violated in connection therewith. Notwithstanding this provision, no lawful
residential use can lapse regardless of the length of time of the vacancy.
      (2)   See also Title 1 of the County Code, “General Provisions; Code
Enforcement,” for additional regulations related to nuisances, penalties, and
administrative civil remedies.
   (D)   Nuisance defined. Any building, structure, or planting set up,
erected, constructed, altered, enlarged, converted, moved, or maintained
contrary to the provisions of this title, any use of any land, building, or
premises established, conducted, operated, or maintained contrary to the
provisions of this title, and failure to comply with any of the conditions of a
permit granted under this title is declared to be unlawful and a public
nuisance.
   (E)   Penalties. Any person, firm, or corporation, whether as principal,
agent, employee or otherwise, violating or failing to comply with a mandatory
requirement of this title shall be guilty of a misdemeanor but may be cited or
charged, at the election of the enforcing officer or County Attorney, as an
infraction. A person, firm, or corporation shall be deemed guilty of a separate
offense for each day during any portion of which any violation of this title is
committed, continued, or permitted by such person, firm or corporation, and
shall be punished accordingly.
   (F)   Remedies. The remedies provided for herein shall be cumulative and not
exclusive. Upon a finding of nuisance and after giving the property owner an
opportunity to cure the nuisance and determining that the nuisance still
exists, the Planning Commission or Board of Supervisors may impose any remedy
available at law or in equity, which shall include, but is not limited to, any
of the following or combination thereof:
      (1)   Ordering the cessation of the use in whole or in part;
      (2)   Imposing reasonable conditions upon any continued operation of the
use, including those uses that constitute existing non-conforming uses;
      (3)   Requiring continued compliance with any conditions so imposed;
      (4)   Requiring the user to guarantee that such conditions shall in all
respects be complied with; or
      (5)   Imposing additional conditions or ordering the cessation of the use
in whole or in part upon.
(Ord. 1043, § 3 (part), 2022)
§ 25.01.011 AMENDMENTS TO THE GENERAL PLAN, ZONING CODE, AND ZONING MAP.
   (A)   Purpose. This chapter establishes procedures for consideration and
review of amendments to the general plan, zoning code, and/or zoning map, when
there are compelling reasons to do so more specifically, this chapter
addresses:
      (1)   Amendments to the general plan, to address changes in state or
federal law and problems and opportunities that were unanticipated at the time
of adoption or the last amendment; and
      (2)   Amendments to the zoning code and zoning map, whenever the public
necessity, convenience, general welfare, or good practice justify such
amendment, consistent with the general plan.
   (B)   Procedures for the approval of general plan. Procedures for the
initiation and approval or amendment of the general plan are provided in Title
19 of the County Code.
   (C)   Applicability. The procedures in this chapter shall apply to:
      (1)   All proposals to change the text of the general plan, including any
maps which are part of the general plan that are combined in the same
application for a proposed change to the text of this zoning code or boundary
line shown on the zoning map; and
      (2)   All proposals to change the text of this zoning code or to revise a
zone or boundary line shown on the zoning map.
   (D)   Authority. The Planning Commission shall act as the advisory body for
all amendments to the general plan text, general plan land use map, zoning code
text, and zoning code map and provide recommendations to the Board of
Supervisors. The Board of Supervisors shall act as the Review Authority, and
after receiving recommendations from the Planning Commission, may adopt,
reject, or modify all amendments to the general plan text, general plan land
use map, zoning code text, and zoning code map.
   (E)   Initiation of amendment. An amendment to the general plan, zoning
code, or zoning map may be initiated by any qualified applicant identified in §
25.01.013, Application Forms and Fees, the Director, or by a motion of the
Board of Supervisors or Planning Commission.
   (F)   Procedures.
      (1)   Application. A qualified applicant shall submit an application for
amendment accompanied by the required fees by the County. The Planning Division
may require an applicant to submit such additional information and supporting
data as considered necessary to process the application. The Planning Division
may allow amendments to the general plan, zoning code, and zoning map to be
processed concurrently with other applications.
      (2)   Staff report. The Director shall prepare a report and
recommendation to the Planning Commission on any amendment application. The
report shall include, but is not limited to, a discussion of how the proposed
amendment meets the criteria in this section for zoning amendments (if
applicable), as well as an environmental document prepared in compliance with
the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA). Applications involving
projects for which an environmental document is required shall not be heard
until the environmental assessment procedures required by CEQA are satisfied.
      (3)   Public hearing and notice. All amendments to the general plan,
zoning code, and zoning map shall be referred to the Planning Commission, which
shall conduct at least one public hearing on any proposed amendment. At least
ten days before the date of any public hearing, the Planning Division shall
provide notice. Notice of the hearing also shall be mailed or delivered to any
local agency expected to provide essential facilities or services to the
property that is the subject of the proposed amendment.
   (G)   Planning Commission hearing and recommendation.
      (1)   Planning Commission hearing. Before submitting a recommendation
report to the Board of Supervisors, the Planning Commission shall conduct at
least one public hearing in accordance with the public hearings provisions in §
25.01.007.
      (2)   Recommendation to Board of Supervisors. Following the public
hearing, the Planning Commission shall make a recommendation on the proposed
amendment to the Board of Supervisors. Such recommendation shall include the
reasons for the recommendation, consistency with general plan, and the
relationship of the proposed amendment to other adopted documents. The
recommendation shall be transmitted in the form of a memorandum to the Board of
Supervisors, prepared by the Director.
      (3)   Approval. If the Planning Commission has recommended approval of
the proposed amendment, the Board of Supervisors is required to take final
action pursuant to Board of Supervisors hearing and action in this chapter.
      (4)   Denial. If the Planning Commission has recommended against the
proposed amendment, the Board of Supervisors is not required to take any
further action unless an appeal is filed in accordance with the appeals
provisions of §
25.01.008.
   (H)   Board of Supervisors hearing and action.
      (1)   Board of Supervisors hearing. After receiving the recommendation
from the Planning Commission, the Board of Commissioners shall hold a hearing
in accordance with the public hearings provisions in §
25.01.007. The notice for the hearing shall include a summary of the Planning
Commission recommendation.
      (2)   Board of Supervisors action.
         (a)   After the conclusion of the hearing, the Board of Supervisors
may approve, modify, or deny the proposed amendment. If the Board of
Supervisors proposes any substantial revision not previously considered by the
Planning Commission during its hearings, the proposed revision shall first be
referred to the Planning Commission for report and recommendation.
         (b)   The Planning Commission shall not be required to officially
consider the referral from the Board of Supervisors. If the Planning Commission
does not report to the Board of Supervisors within 45 days after the referral,
it shall be deemed that the Commission recommends approval, and the amendment
shall be returned to Board of Supervisors for action.
   (I)   General plan consistency required for zoning amendments. The Planning
Commission shall not recommend, and the Board of Supervisors shall not approve
a zoning amendment unless the proposed amendment is found to be consistent with
the general plan. In the case of a combined general plan amendment and change
of zone or zoning code amendment, a finding may be made that the zoning
amendment is consistent with the general plan as proposed to be amended.
(Ord. 1043, § 3 (part), 2022)
§ 25.01.012 NON-CONFORMING USES, STRUCTURES, AND SITES.
   (A)   Purpose and intent.
      (1)   This section provides regulations for nonconforming land uses,
structures, and parcels that were lawful before the adoption or amendment of
this zoning code, but which would be prohibited, regulated, or restricted
differently under the current terms of this code or future amendments.
      (2)   It is the intent of this section to discourage the long-term
continuance of nonconformities that have the potential to create nuisance or
other incompatibility issues and provide for their eventual elimination while
allowing them to exist under the limited conditions outlined in this code.
   (B)   Establishment of legal nonconforming status. The provisions of this
chapter apply to sites, uses, and structures that have become nonconforming by
adoption of this title as well as sites, uses, and structures that become
nonconforming due to subsequent amendments to its text or to the county zoning
map.
   (C)   Nonconformities defined. Any lawfully established use or structure
that is in existence on the effective date of this title or any subsequent
amendment thereto but does not comply with the standards and requirements of
this title shall be considered nonconforming.
      (1)   A non-conforming use or structure may result from any inconsistency
with the requirements of this title including, but not limited to, use,
location, density, floor area, height, setback, other development standards, or
the lack of an approved administrative use permit, conditional use permit, or
other required authorization.
      (2)   A parcel of land may be considering nonconforming if it was
previously used and/or developed without required site improvements including
but not limited to paving, screening, landscaping, lighting, drainage, etc.
   (D)   Continuance of legal nonconforming uses and structures.
      (1)   Any use or structure that was lawfully established prior to the
effective date of this title or of any subsequent amendments to its text or to
the zoning map may only be continued and maintained provided there is no
alteration, enlargement, addition, or other change to any building or structure
or use therein; or no substitution, expansion, or other change including an
increase in occupant load or any enlargement of the area, space, or volume
occupied by or devoted to such use, except as otherwise provided in this
chapter. The right to continue a nonconforming use or structure shall attach to
the land and shall not be affected by a change in ownership, tenancy, or
management. The right to continue a nonconforming use or structure shall not
apply to uses or structures determined by the Planning Commission or Board of
Supervisors as described in this chapter to be a public nuisance arising from
conditions that constitute a threat to public health, safety or general
welfare.
      (2)   The right to continue a nonconforming use or re-occupy a
nonconforming structure shall terminate if the nonconforming use has been
abandoned or the nonconforming structure has been vacated for the relevant
period described in the abandonment of nonconforming uses section.
   (E)   Nonconforming uses. Nonconforming uses shall not be expanded,
modified, or substituted for another nonconforming use except as provided
below.
      (1)   Expansion. Nonconforming uses shall not expand in intensity and/or
physical footprint.
      (2)   Absence of permit. Any use that is nonconforming solely by reason
of the absence of a Use permit may be changed to a conforming use by obtaining
the appropriate use permit pursuant to the requirements with the provisions in
the use permits sections in Chapter 25.02.
      (3)   Conditions. The Director may impose reasonable conditions deemed
necessary to ensure compliance with the required findings. The Planning
Director may also require reasonable guarantees and evidence that such
conditions are being, or will be, complied with.
      (4)   Abandonment of nonconforming use. If the nonconforming use ceases
to operate, whether with the intent to abandon the use or not, for a continuous
period of one calendar year, it shall be considered abandoned and shall not be
resumed, reestablished, reopened, or replaced by any use other than a
conforming use. It is the responsibility of the applicant to provide evidence
demonstrating to the satisfaction of the Director that the use was legally
established and has not been abandoned.
         (a)   Abandonment. The time period set forth above shall commence when
the use ceases to operate, whether with the intent to abandon the use or not,
and any one of the following occurs:
            1.   The site is vacated;
            2.   The business license expires or is revoked;
            3.   Utilities are terminated; or
            4.   The applicable lease is terminated.
         (b)   Extension of abandonment period. The Director may approve an
additional one-year time period during which the use will not be considered
abandoned; provided that the Director finds that economic conditions warrant
the additional time. If such additional time period is approved, the total
period during which the use will not be considered abandoned shall not exceed
two years from the date the use ceased to operate.
      (5)   Burden of proof. The burden of proof as to the nonconforming status
of any use shall rest with the property owner, tenant, and/or resident.
   (F)   Nonconforming structures. Nonconforming structures may be continued
and maintained in compliance with the following provisions.
      (1)   Additions and enlargements. Additions to and/or enlargements of
nonconforming structures are allowed if the addition or enlargement complies
with all applicable laws and requirements of this title, the use of the
addition/enlarged area of the property is authorized by this title, and there
is no increase in the discrepancy between existing conditions and the
requirements of this title, except as provided below.
      (2)   Maintenance and repairs. Structural and non-structural maintenance,
repair, and interior alterations to a nonconforming structure are permitted if
the changes and improvements do not enlarge the structure, change the building
footprint, or increase building height or roof pitch. This excludes any
improvements required to meet accessibility requirements.
         (a)   Nonconforming setbacks, residential zones. In residential zones,
a nonconforming setback may be maintained and extended, and shall not be
considered an increase in the discrepancy, provided that:
            1.   A new encroachment into any other required setback is not
created;
            2.   The height of the portion of the structure that is within the
required setback is not increased; and
            3.   Any residential additions above the first floor shall conform
to the setbacks in effect at the time the application for the addition is
submitted.
      (3)   Restoration of damaged or destroyed nonconforming structures. A
nonconforming structure that is damaged or partially destroyed by fire,
explosion, earthquake, or natural disaster that was not caused by an act or
deliberate omission of a property owner, their agent, or person acting on their
behalf or in concert with them, may be restored or rebuilt subject to the
following provisions.
         (a)   Restoration when damage is 50% or less of value. If the cost of
repair or reconstruction is less than or equal to 50% of the appraised value of
the structure as determined by the Building Official, replacement of the
damaged portions of the structure is allowed by right provided that the
replaced portions are the same size, extent, and configuration as previously
existed. The determination of the appraised value shall be made by a
professional appraiser selected by the County, whose fee shall be paid by the
building or property owner.
         (b)   Restoration when damage exceeds 50% of value. If the cost of
repair or reconstruction exceeds 50% of the appraised value of the structure,
as determined pursuant to division (F)(3)(a) above, the land and building shall
be subject to the requirements of this title, except as provided below.
            1.   Residential structures. Any nonconforming multi-family
residential structure may be reconstructed, restored, or rebuilt up to the size
and number of dwelling units prior to the damage and the nonconforming use, if
any, may be resumed subject to a zoning clearance in the case of single-unit
dwellings or Director approval in the case of other residential uses, unless
the Review Authority finds that the reconstruction, restoration, or rebuilding
will be detrimental or injurious to the health, safety, or general welfare of
persons residing or working in the neighborhood.
            2.   Timing. Building permits must be obtained within two years of
the date of the damage or destruction and construction shall be completed
within one year of issuance unless another time period is specified through
Director consideration. Building permits must be maintained valid through the
completion of the project.
      (4)   Burden of proof. The burden of proof as to the nonconforming status
of any structure shall rest with the property owner, tenant, and/or resident.
   (G)   Nonconforming sites.
      (1)   A NONCONFORMING SITE is a lot or parcel that is not in compliance
with current site development standards (e.g., parking, landscaping, etc.) but
which was in conformance when the site was developed.
      (2)   In conjunction with the expansion of existing buildings or the
construction of new buildings on a partially developed site, nonconforming
sites shall be brought into compliance on the following basis.
      (3)   In all cases, it is recognized that full compliance with the
requirements of this zoning code may not be possible, due to limitations such
as the size of the parcel. In such cases, a good faith effort to achieve
compliance shall be sufficient.
 
Proposed
Building   Required Site Improvements
Expansion
Less than
10%
increase
in floor
area or    Exempt; no site improvements required.
500 square
feet of
expansion,
whichever
is less
10% or
greater    Landscaping shall be installed along street and building frontages to the
increase   extent possible
in floor
area
30% or     One of the improvements below shall be made with the construction of the
greater    increased floor area, if enough site area is available:
increase   a.   Installation of additional parking to achieve as much compliance with
in floor   parking requirements as possible;
area       b.   Installation of landscaping to achieve as much compliance with
           landscaping requirements as possible.
50% or     Both of the items below shall be completed with the construction of the
greater    increased floor area, if enough site area is available:
increase   a.   Installation of additional parking to achieve as much compliance with
in floor   parking requirements as possible;
area       b.   Installation of landscaping to achieve as much compliance with
           landscaping requirements as possible.
 
   (H)   Abatement. The provisions of this chapter are in addition to existing
state law authority to declare and abate a public nuisance and other applicable
provisions of the County Code. If a legal nonconforming structure or use is
found to constitute a public nuisance, appropriate action may be taken by the
County pursuant to the County Code.
(Ord. 1043, § 3 (part), 2022)
§ 25.01.013 APPLICATION FORMS AND FEES.
   (A)   This chapter establishes uniform procedures for the preparation,
filing, and processing of all land use permits and approvals provided for in
this title, unless superseded by a specific requirement of the zoning code or
state law.
   (B)   Forms and fees.
      (1)   Applicant. The owner of property or the owner’s authorized agent.
If the application is made by someone other than the owner or the owner’s
agent, proof of the right to use and possess the property as applied for,
satisfactory to the Director, shall accompany the application.
      (2)   Application forms. The Director shall prepare, and issue
application forms and lists that specify the information that will be required
from applicants for projects subject to the provisions of this title.
      (3)   Supporting materials. The Director may require the submission of
supporting materials as part of the application, including but not limited to:
statements, photographs, plans, drawings, renderings, models, staking and
flagging, material samples and other items necessary to describe existing
conditions and the proposed project and to determine the level of environmental
review pursuant to the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA).
      (4)   Availability of materials. All submitted material becomes the
property of the County, may be distributed to the public, and shall be made
available for public inspection. At any time, upon reasonable request, and
during normal business hours, any person may examine application materials in
support of or in opposition at the Planning Division offices. Unless prohibited
by law or superseded by specific permit confidentiality requirements, copies of
such materials shall be made available at a reasonable cost.
      (5)   Reimbursement and indemnification. The application shall include an
enforceable provision in which the applicant agrees to reimburse the County for
the cost of processing the application and to defend the County in any legal
actions arising from the County’s processing and/or approval or denial.
   (C)   Multiple applications.
      (1)   Concurrent filing. An applicant for a development project that
requires the filing of more than one application (e.g., conditional use permit,
tentative map, etc.), shall file all related applications concurrently,
together with all application fees required by the County. Under certain
circumstances, the concurrent filing requirements may be waived by the
Director.
      (2)   Concurrent processing. Multiple applications for the same project
may be processed concurrently, each application shall be reviewed and approved
or denied by the Review Authority designated by the zoning code. In the case of
concurrent applications which require review and approval by a lower authority
and a higher authority (e.g., Planning Commission and Board of Supervisors),
any approvals by the lower authority shall be contingent upon approval by the
higher authority.
   (D)   Application fees.
      (1)   Fee schedule. The Board of Supervisors shall approve by resolution
a fee schedule that establishes flat fees or deposits for permits, procedures
for processing flat fees or deposits, informational materials, penalties,
copying, and other such items.
      (2)   Fee payment. No application shall be deemed complete, and
processing shall not commence on any application until all required fees or
deposits have been paid.
      (3)   Fee waiver. No fee shall be required when the applicant is the
County, or if it is waived under any other provision of the County Code.
      (4)   Refund of fees. Application fees are non-refundable unless
otherwise provided for in the County Code or by policy of the County.
   (E)   Review of applications.
      (1)   Initial completeness review. The Director shall determine whether
an application is complete within 30 days of the date the application is
accepted and the required fee received, whichever is later, except for
legislative acts (zoning amendments, specific plans, etc.) or where this time
limit is superseded by state law.
      (2)   Incomplete application. If an application is deemed incomplete, the
Director shall provide written notification to the applicant listing the
application(s), forms, information, and any additional fees that are necessary
to complete the application.
      (3)   Appeal of determination. Determinations of incompleteness are
subject to the provisions of appeals in §
25.01.008.
   (F)   Expiration of applications.
      (1)   Expiration of application. Based on noncommunication, the Director
may determine that an application has been abandoned. The applicant shall be
informed that the County plans to deem the application expired and shall be
given an opportunity to provide any missing materials within a reasonable time.
Final notice of an expired application shall be mailed to the applicant if no
response is received, or if missing materials are not provided.
      (2)   Notice of expired application. When an application is deemed
expired, the Director shall make a record of that date and also notify the
applicant.
      (3)   Application fees refunded. Any funds paid or deposited and not used
at the time the application is deemed expired shall be refunded to the
applicant.
(Ord. 1043, § 3 (part), 2022)
CHAPTER 25.02: PERMITS AND OTHER PLANNING ACTIONS
Section
   
25.02.001   Development plan review
   
25.02.002   Administrative use permits
   
25.02.003   Conditional use permits
   
25.02.004   Temporary use permits
   
25.02.005   Temporary event permits
   
25.02.006   Crowing fowl permits
   
25.02.007   Lot line adjustments
   
25.02.008   Minor modifications to development standards
   
25.02.009   Variances
   
25.02.010   Reasonable accommodation
   
25.02.011   Zoning clearance
   
25.02.012   Modification, revocation and termination
§ 25.02.001 DEVELOPMENT PLAN REVIEW.
   (A)   The development plan review process provides for the review of new
construction and additions or other physical modifications to sites and
buildings.
      (1)   Two types of development review are established:
         (a)   Minor development plan review, a staff-level review and approval
of new, non-exempt development.
         (b)   Major development plan review, review of new, non-exempt
development by the Planning Commission.
      (2)   A third type of project review to determine compliance with
development standards, zoning clearance, is described in §
25.02.011.
   (B)   Approving authority.
      (1)   Zoning clearance does not involve approval of a project and is
described elsewhere in this chapter (§
25.02.011).
      (2)   Minor development plan reviews. The Planning Director shall act as
the Review Authority for minor development plan reviews.
         (a)   The Planning Director may, at his or her discretion, forward any
application for a minor development plan review to the Planning Commission.
         (b)   The Planning Director must refer an application for a minor
development plan review to the Planning Commission if the applicant or
applicant’s representative, or any member of the public, requests a public
hearing in writing. Such forwarded applications shall be processed as a major
development plan review.
      (3)   Major development plan reviews. The Planning Commission shall act
as the Review Authority for major development plan reviews.
   (C)   Review of exempt projects.
      (1)   The Director may, at his or her discretion, require that a project
which is defined as exempt from development plan review be processed as a minor
or major development plan review, as deemed appropriate by the Director.
      (2)   The Director’s decision to process an otherwise exempt project may
be appealed as provided in this title.
   (D)   Thresholds for types of development plan review. New construction and
additions or physical modifications to buildings shall be categorized as exempt
or subject to minor or major development plan review as shown below.
Table 25.02-A
Development Plan Review Thresholds
 
                                                                                            Minor         Major
               Exempt (Requires Zoning Clearance)                                           Development   Development
                                                                                            Plan Review   Plan Review
                                                                                            Master home
                                                                                            plans for
                                                                                            subdivisions
                                                                                            of up to 10   Master home
Single-family                                                                               dwelling      plans for
residential    Additions or exterior modifications to existing single-family residences and units         residential
structures in  accessory structures                                                         Master        subdivisions
all zoning     New construction of a custom single-family home and accessory structures     landscaping,  greater than
districts1                                                                                  lighting, and 10 dwelling
                                                                                            fencing plans units
                                                                                            for single-
                                                                                            family
                                                                                            residential
                                                                                            subdivisions
Multi-family                                                                                New multi-    New multi-
residential                                                                                 family        family
structures in  Additions or modifications to multi-family residential structures which do   development   development
all zoning     not result in an increase in the number of residential units                 with 4 or     with 5 or
districts1                                                                                  less dwelling more dwelling
                                                                                            units         units
                                                                                            Additions or  Additions or
                                                                                            modifications modifications
                                                                                            to structures to structures
                                                                                            that add      that add
Non-                                                                                        2,501 to      5,001 square
residential                                                                                 5,000 square  feet or more
(commercial,   New buildings, additions or modifications to structures that add less than   feet to an    to an
office,        2,500 square feet to an existing building                                    existing      existing
institutional)                                                                              building      building
structures1                                                                                 New           New
                                                                                            structures of structures
                                                                                            3,000 square  greater than
                                                                                            feet or less  5,000 square
                                                                                                          feet
                                                                                            Barns,        Barns,
                                                                                            garages,      garages,
                                                                                            workshops,    workshops,
                                                                                            and other     and other
                                                                                            similar       similar
Agricultural / Barns, garages, workshops, and other similar structures up to 25,000 square  structures    structures
industrial     feet                                                                         25,001 square greater than
structures2    Additions to existing structures are exempt                                  feet to       50,000 square
                                                                                            50,000 square feet
                                                                                            feet          Additions to
                                                                                            Additions to  existing
                                                                                            existing      structures
                                                                                            structures    are exempt
                                                                                            are exempt
                                                                                                          Hillside
                                                                                            Other         development,
                                                                                            development   per
               Interior alterations that do not change the permitted use of the structure   of similar    Chapter 25.07
               Signs, including freestanding signs and signs attached to a building         scale and     of this code
               Fences and walls:                                                            impact, as    Other
               • Retaining walls less than 36 inches in height.                           determined by development
               • Fences located on residential or agricultural property constructed in    the Director, of similar
Other1         compliance with the standards of this section                                that is not   scale and
               • Fences and walls required by a state or federal agency, or by the County explicitly    impact, as
               for public safety.                                                           subject to    determined by
               Other development of similar scale or impact, as determined by the Director, major         the Director,
               that is not explicitly subject to minor or major development plan review per development   that is not
               this section                                                                 plan review   explicitly
                                                                                            per this      subject
                                                                                            section       listed in
                                                                                                          this division
1.   General accessory in all non-agricultural zones are regulated in §§
25.07.006 and
25.07.007
2.   Accessory structures in agricultural zones are regulated in §
25.07.008
 
   (E)   Application. Applications for development plan review shall be filed
with the Planning Division on prescribed application forms and all application
fees paid.
   (F)   Notice of application filing. Notices of the application filing shall
be distributed as follows:
      (1)   Notices for major development plan reviews shall meet the criteria
for public notice and hearing before the Planning Commission. Notices shall
include the following:
         (a)   A statement that staff is considering the application (but not
necessarily staff’s recommendation); and
         (b)   A statement that a public hearing will be held; and
         (c)   A specific deadline (of not less than seven calendar days from
the date of the mailing) to respond in writing to provide comments.
      (2)   Notices for minor development plan reviews shall be provided as
follows:
         (a)   A notice describing the proposed project shall be mailed to
property owners and occupants on properties adjacent to the subject site; and
         (b)   The notice shall indicate that staff is considering the
application (but not necessarily staff’s recommendation); and
         (c)   The notice shall indicate that, unless requested, a public
hearing will not be held; and
         (d)   The notice shall include a deadline of not less than seven
calendar days from the date of the mailing to respond in writing to provide
comments or request a public hearing.
   (G)   Public hearings.
      (1)   Minor development plan review. Applications for minor development
plan review shall be reviewed by staff and do not require a public hearing
unless a hearing is requested.
      (2)   Minor development plan review with hearing requested. All
applications for minor development review for which a public hearing is
requested require a public hearing at the Planning Commission, which shall be
advertised and conducted as provided in this title.
      (3)   Major development plan review. Applications for major development
plan review require a public hearing at the Planning Commission, which shall be
advertised and conducted as provided in this title.
   (H)   Required findings. All of the following findings must be made in order
to approve a minor or major development plan review. Evidence in support of
these findings shall be documented for all minor and major development plan
review approvals. Other chapters may contain additional specific findings or
criteria that apply to the approval of development plan reviews in specific
circumstances.
      (1)   The proposed development is compliant with applicable general plan
policies, zoning regulations, specific plan provisions, and any other
applicable regulations.
      (2)   The proposed development respects terrain, drainage, onsite and
offsite infrastructure, etc.; is compatible with adjacent development and uses;
and will not create conflict with vehicular, bicycle, or pedestrian
circulation.
      (3)   That the site has adequate sewer disposal (e.g., sewer or septic),
water, power, and other required utilities, or will provide these as part of
the development of the site.
      (4)   The proposed project will not be detrimental to the public health,
safety and general welfare, nor result in adverse effects on neighboring
residents, businesses, or property.
   (I)   Conditions of approval. In approving a development plan review, the
Reviewing Authority may impose reasonable conditions to ensure that the
development will allow all of the findings for approval to be made. Conditions
of approval shall not affect the operation of any use in the structure.
   (J)   Modifications.
      (1)   Minor changes to approved major or minor development plan reviews
which result in minor design revisions or minor modifications or substitutions
to conditions of approval which are substantially the same as the approved
conditions may be made by the Director through the zoning clearance process.
      (2)   Changes to an approved major or minor development plan review which
are in the Director’s opinion not minor may be approved by the Director (for
any development plan review originally approved by the Director) or following a
public hearing at the Planning Commission (for major development plan reviews
originally approved by the Planning Commission).
   (K)   Notice of decision. An official notice of approval or denial of a
development plan review shall be provided to the applicant. The notice shall
include:
      (1)   The Reviewing Authority’s decision and the date of the decision;
      (2)   Any conditions of approval; and
      (3)   A deadline to file an appeal of the decision, which shall be per
the appeals procedures in
Chapter 25.01 of this code.
   (L)   Appeals. Any person can appeal the Director’s or Planning Commission’s
decision per the procedures established in
Chapter 25.01 of this code.
   (M)   Effective date.
      (1)   The Director’s and Planning Commission’s approval shall be final
when the deadline for an appeal by the public or applicant has expired without
the filing of an appeal.
      (2)   Applications which have been appealed shall be deemed not approved
until the subsequent Review Authority takes action to approve or deny, and that
appeal period, if applicable, has expired without the filing of an appeal.
   (N)   Expiration. Approvals for minor or major development plan reviews
shall not automatically expire and shall remain in effect until revoked or
replaced by a subsequent approval, unless a condition of approval which must be
completed by a specific date is not complied with, in which case the approval
may be returned to the approving authority for revocation.
   (O)   Overlapping or multiple approvals not permitted. Only one minor or
major development plan review approval may be approved for a parcel or
development site. Approval of a new development plan review shall be considered
to revoke any previously approved approval.
(Ord. 1043 § 3 (part), 2022)
§ 25.02.002 ADMINISTRATIVE USE PERMITS.
   (A)   Administrative use permits are provided for the individual review of a
use at a specific location to ensure that their operation will be compatible
with surrounding areas and uses. Administrative use permits are provided for
certain uses to expedite the processing of applications by allowing staff
review and approval. Administrative use permits are provided for uses which
require individual scrutiny but are generally less potentially impactful than
uses for which a conditional use permit is required.
   (B)   Approving Authority. The designated Approving Authority for an
administrative use permit is the Planning Director.
      (1)   The Planning Director may, at his or her discretion, forward an
application for an administrative use permit to the Planning Commission for
decision. The Director may refer an application to the Planning Commission for
any of the following reasons:
         (a)   The applicant or applicant’s representative or any member of the
public requests, in writing, a public hearing.
         (b)   At the discretion of the Director.
      (2)   Administrative use permits referred to the Planning Commission
shall be processed in the same manner as a conditional use permit.
   (C)   Uses requiring administrative use permits. Uses which require
administrative use permits are shown in the use tables in
Chapter 25.03 of this zoning code.
   (D)   Application. Applications for administrative use permits shall be
filed with the Planning Division on the prescribed application forms.
   (E)   Notice of application filing. Once an application for an
administrative use permit has been determined to be complete, notice of the
application shall be mailed to all persons owning and/or residing on property
within 300 feet of the exterior boundaries of the property for which the permit
has been applied. The notice shall also be posted on the website, and at the
project site by the applicant in a location that is readable from the public
right of way.
      (1)   The notice shall indicate that staff is considering the application
but need not include a proposed decision.
      (2)   The notice shall indicate that, unless requested, a public hearing
will not be held.
      (3)   The notice shall include a deadline of not less than ten calendar
days to respond in writing to provide comments or request a public hearing from
the date of the notice.
   (F)   Required findings.
      (1)   All of the following findings must be made in order to approve an
administrative use permit:
         (a)   The proposed use is administratively permitted within the
applicable zone and complies with all other applicable provisions of this title
and all other titles of the County Code, general plan and any applicable
specific plan;
         (b)   The proposed use will not be adverse to the public health,
safety, or general welfare of the community, nor detrimental to surrounding
properties or improvements;
         (c)   The proposed use complies with any design or development
standards applicable to the zone or the use in question, unless waived or
modified pursuant to the provisions of this Title;
         (d)   The site is physically suitable for the type, density, and
intensity of the use being proposed, including access, utilities, and the
absence of physical constraints.
      (2)   The Director shall provide his or her determination to approve or
deny in writing to applicant.
   (G)   Conditions of approval.
      (1)   In approving an Administrative Use Permit, the Director may impose
reasonable conditions or restrictions to ensure that the project’s operation
will allow all of the findings for approval to be made. The Director may
require reasonable guarantees and evidence that such conditions are being, or
will be, complied with.
      (2)   Conditions of approval may be included requiring that specific
actions take place by specified deadlines. Noncompliance with such conditions
may result in revocation, as provided in this section.
   (H)   Modification of conditions.
      (1)   Minor changes to an approved administrative use permit to modify or
substitute conditions of approval which are substantially the same as the
approved conditions may be made by the Director. No public notice shall be
required for such changes.
      (2)   Changes to an approved administrative use permit which are in the
Director’s opinion not minor may be approved following a public hearing at the
Planning Commission.
   (I)   Notice of decision. The Director’s decision to approve or deny an
application for an administrative use permit shall be provided to the applicant
in writing. The notice of decision shall include:
      (1)   The Director’s decision and the date of the decision.
      (2)   Any conditions of approval.
      (3)   A deadline for the public or applicant to file an appeal of the
decision, which shall be ten calendar days from the day on which the notice was
mailed.
      (J)   Appeals.
      (1)   The public or applicant can request an appeal of the Director’s
decision per the procedures established in Chapter
25.01.008 of this code.
      (2)   The Commission can request that the application be scheduled for a
public hearing to review the Director’s decision.
   (K)   Effective date.
      (1)   The Director’s approval shall be final when the deadline for the
filing of an appeal by the public or applicant has expired without the filing
of an appeal.
      (2)   Applications which have been appealed or scheduled for review at
the request of the Planning Commission shall be deemed not approved until the
Planning Commission takes action to approve or deny.
   (L)   Expiration. No automatic expiration for an administrative use permit
is imposed by this title. Conditions may be required to be complied with by a
certain date.
   (M)   Revocation. An administrative use permit can be revised or revoked
following a public hearing by the Planning Commission based on non-compliance
with conditions of approval or to address issues which have arisen due to the
operation of the use despite adherence to all approved condition of approval.
Noticing and hearing procedures for revocation shall be the same as for the
initial consideration of the administrative use permit.
(Ord. 1043 § 3 (part), 2022)
§ 25.02.003 CONDITIONAL USE PERMITS.
   (A)   Conditional use permits are provided for the individual review of uses
at specific locations to ensure that their operation will be compatible with
surrounding areas and uses.
   (B)   Approving Authority. The Planning Commission shall act as the Review
Authority for conditional use permits.
   (C)   Uses requiring conditional use permits. Uses which require conditional
use permits are shown in the use tables in
Chapter 25.03 of this zoning code.
   (D)   Application. Applications for conditional use permits shall be filed
with the Planning Division on the prescribed application forms.
   (E)   Public notice and hearing. All applications for conditional use
permits shall require public notice and hearing before the Planning Commission
pursuant to the provisions of public hearings section in §
25.01.007 of this Zoning Code.
   (F)   Findings. All of the following findings must be made in order To
approve a conditional use permit:
      (1)   The proposed use is conditionally permitted within the applicable
zone and complies with all other applicable provisions of this title and all
other titles of the San Benito County Code, the general plan and any applicable
specific plan;
      (2)   The proposed use will not be adverse to the public health, safety,
or general welfare of the community, nor detrimental to surrounding properties
or improvements;
      (3)   The proposed use complies with any design or development standards
applicable to the zone or the use in question, unless waived or modified
pursuant to the provisions of this title;
      (4)   The site is physically suitable for the type, density, and
intensity of the use being proposed. Suitability criteria may include, but are
not limited to, access, utilities, and the absence of physical constraints.
   (G)   Conditions of approval.
      (1)   In approving a conditional use permit, the Director may impose
reasonable conditions or restrictions to ensure that the project’s operation
will allow all of the findings for approval to be made. The Director may
require reasonable guarantees and evidence that such conditions are being, or
will be, complied with.
      (2)   Conditions of approval may be included requiring that specific
actions take place by specified deadlines. Noncompliance with such conditions
may result in revocation, as provided in this section.
   (H)   Modification. Modifications to an approved conditional use permit may
be made per the provisions of the modification of approvals section in
Chapter 25.02.
   (I)   Notice of decision. An official notice of approval or denial of a
conditional use permit shall be provided to the applicant. The notice shall
include:
      (1)   The date of the decision.
      (2)   Any conditions of approval.
      (3)   A deadline to file an appeal of the decision, which shall be per
the procedures in
Chapter 25.01 of this code.
   (J)   Appeals. The public or applicant can request an appeal of the Planning
Commission’s decision per the procedures established in §
25.01.008 of this code.
   (K)   Effective date.
      (1)   The Planning Commission’s approval shall be final when the deadline
for an appeal by the public or applicant has expired without the filing of an
appeal.
      (2)   Applications which have been appealed shall be deemed not approved
until the Board of Supervisors takes action to approve or deny.
   (L)   Expiration. No automatic expiration for a conditional use permit is
imposed by this title. Conditions may be required to be complied with by a
certain date. If such conditions are not followed, revocation may proceed as
provided in this section.
   (M)   Revocation. A conditional use permit can be revised or revoked
following a public hearing by the Planning Commission based on non-compliance
with conditions of approval or to address issues which have arisen due to the
operation of the use despite adherence to all approved condition of approval.
Noticing and hearing procedures for revocation shall be the same as for the
initial consideration of the conditional use permit.
   (N)   Reapplication for denied conditional use permit. If a conditional use
permit is denied, no new application for a new permit substantially the same as
the one denied shall be considered for a period of one year following denial.
   (O)   Automatic issuance of a conditional use permit to holder of surface
mining operations permit. Upon the issuance of the operations permit, pursuant
to the surface mining operation and reclamation code set out in the surface
mining and reclamation section in §
25.08.017, a conditional use permit shall automatically be issued by the
Planning Director without further hearing and without additional fee to the
holder of the operations permit. All conditions of the operations permit shall
be conditions of the use permit. The status of the use permit shall be the same
as that of the operations permit.
(Ord. 1043 § 3 (part), 2022)
§ 25.02.004 TEMPORARY USE PERMITS.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to establish regulations for
uses of private property that are temporary in nature. These provisions place
restrictions on the duration of the temporary use, its location, and other
development standards. The intent of these regulations is to ensure that the
temporary use does not adversely impact the long-term uses of the same or
neighboring sites, or impact the general health, safety, and welfare of persons
residing within the community. (Refer to the section on temporary events and
permits for regulations related to events.)
   (B)   Permit required. Except as otherwise provided in this zoning code, the
temporary uses listed in this section shall require the issuance of a temporary
use permit from the Planning Director prior to establishment of the use. The
Planning Director may impose conditions on the approval of a temporary use.
   (C)   Temporary use regulations.
      (1)   Exempt temporary uses. The following temporary uses are exempt from
the permit requirements of this section, provided they comply with the
development standards listed below.
         (a)   Emergency facilities. Temporary facilities to accommodate
emergency public health and safety needs and activities;
         (b)   Construction yards—On-site. Yards and sheds for the storage of
materials and equipment used as part of a construction project, provided a
valid building permit has been issued and the materials and equipment are
stored on the same site as the construction activity;
         (c)   Miscellaneous. Activities conducted on public property or within
the public right-of- way that are approved by the County or as otherwise
required by the County Code.
         (d)   Garage or yard sales, provided that no more than three sales are
conducted at the same address in any calendar year.
         (e)   Mobile vendors or food trucks operating on any property subject
to County jurisdiction which move from location to location during the day and
do not stay at a given location for more than four hours on any given day.
         (f)   Mobile vendors or food trucks operating entirely on public
roadways.
      (2)   Allowed temporary uses and related standards. The following
temporary uses may only be established after first obtaining a valid temporary
use permit. Uses that do not fall within the categories defined below shall
comply with the use and development regulations and planning permit
requirements that otherwise apply to the property.
         (a)   Construction office. A temporary construction office, used
during the construction of a main building or buildings on the same site;
         (b)   Construction yards—Off-site. Site contractors’ construction
yards, in conjunction with an approved construction project;
         (c)   Model homes. A model home or model home complex may be
authorized before the completion of subdivision improvements;
         (d)   Temporary real estate offices, including sales trailers and
related facilities. May be established within the area of an approved
residential subdivision project, solely for the first sale of homes. In
addition, conditions of approval regulating the hours of operation,
landscaping, or other aspects as deemed necessary may be imposed as part of the
temporary use permit;
         (e)   Seasonal sales lots. Temporary seasonal sales activities (e.g.,
Christmas trees, pumpkin sales, and other similar outdoor sales) may be
permitted in any commercial or industrial zoning district, or on any religious
facility or school site that abuts a collector or arterial roadway as
designated in the general plan. Seasonal sales may be permitted in any non-
residential zoning district upon issuance of a temporary use permit. The term
of permit shall not exceed 60 days per calendar year, which may be used in up
to three consecutive or nonconsecutive periods (e.g. 20+20+20 or 10+10+40).
         (f)   Mobile vendors including food trucks. Mobile vendors or food
trucks may operate in fixed locations or at any given location for more than
four hours after obtaining a temporary use permit. The temporary use permit may
be used by one vendor/truck to operate in up to four locations.
            1.   The following standards apply to the operation of mobile
vendors/food trucks:
               a.    Mobile vendors or food trucks shall operate with all
required health and other permits as required by the San Benito County Code and
other applicable state and local regulations.
               b.    Mobile vendors or food trucks shall comply with San Benito
County
Chapter 5.03 County Taxes.
               c.    Mobile vendors or food trucks shall post their required
vendor permits and business licenses on the outside of the truck, cart, or
stand.
               d.    Mobile vendors or food trucks and any associated
improvements or accessories (such as picnic tables or seating) shall not occupy
parking which is required to meet the needs of permanent uses on the parcel,
and shall not block vehicle circulation, emergency access, or public rights-of-
way.
               e.    Restroom and other facilities shall be provided as
required by the County Department of Environmental Health.
               f.    Mobile vendors or food trucks out of compliance with these
standards will be subject to Title 1 General Provisions, Code Enforcement.
            2.   The temporary use permit for a mobile vendor or food truck
shall specify:
               a.    Address(es) at which the truck will operate, up to a
maximum of four locations.
               b.   Site plan for the placement of the mobile vendors or food
truck and any accessories.
               c.   Any requirements from the Department of Environmental
Health or other County departments.
               d.    Schedule of operation at each location, including days and
hours.
               e.    Each temporary use permit for a mobile vendor or food
truck shall be valid for a period of up to one calendar year, starting on the
day the permit is issued.
               f.   A temporary use permit for an event may specify the
location(s) and number of mobile vendors/food trucks to be operated during the
event, in which case temporary use permit(s) for individual mobile vendors or
food trucks are not needed.
         (g)   Temporary dwellings, including mobile homes, when a primary
dwelling is being constructed or remodeled may be permitted, provided a valid
building permit has been issued. The temporary dwelling shall be limited to a
maximum of one year.
         (h)   Other temporary uses and activities that typically occur on
private property.
      (3)   When a temporary use is not specifically listed in this section,
the Director shall determine whether the proposed use is similar in nature to
listed uses(s) and shall establish the term and make necessary findings and
conditions for the particular use.
   (D)   General standards for temporary uses. Each use granted a temporary use
permit shall comply with all applicable zoning district and development
standards as outlined in this zoning code. The Director shall establish the
following standards in combination with the provisions above and, based on the
type of temporary use, in addition to standards within the zoning code for
guidance:
      (1)   Measures for removal of the activity and site restoration, to
ensure that no changes to the site would limit the range of possible future
land uses otherwise allowed by this zoning code.
      (2)   Limitation on the duration of approved temporary structures to a
maximum of one year, so they shall not become permanent or long-term
structures.
      (3)   Other requirements as appropriate to minimize any adverse impacts
of the use.
   (E)   Similar uses. When a temporary use is not specifically listed in this
section, the Director shall determine whether the proposed use is similar in
nature to listed uses(s) and shall establish the term and make necessary
findings and conditions for the particular use, consistent with the provisions
in §
25.01.006.
(Ord. 1066 § 3 (part), 2024)
Editor’s note:
   Prior ordinance history: Ord. 1043.
§ 25.02.005 TEMPORARY EVENT PERMITS.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to ensure that the operators
of privately-run or -sponsored temporary events obtain all required permits and
approvals from the County and other agencies to ensure the safety of the public
attending the events. This section applies to events taking place entirely on
private property and to privately-run or -sponsored events which occur
partially or entirely on public property (e.g., an event in a public park, or a
parade or event taking place on public streets).
   (B)   Temporary event permit and compliance with all county and outside
agency permits is required.
      (1)   All temporary events shall obtain an approved temporary event
permit from the County at least ten calendar days before the event, and shall
comply before, during, and after the event with all requirements, conditions,
etc., which may be imposed by the County and/or outside agencies. County
departments and other public agencies to be consulted include:
         (a)   San Benito County Building and Safety Department.
         (b)   San Benito County Public Works Department.
         (c)   San Benito County Administrative Office.
         (d)   San Benito County Fire Department.
         (e)   San Benito County Sheriff.
         (f)   San Benito County Department of Environmental Health.
      (2)   Coordination with these agencies will be facilitated and verified
by the County, as described in division (F), below. Some of these agencies may
require separate permits or approvals, which are in addition to the temporary
event permit.
      (3)   A temporary use permit is required for some types of commercially
oriented temporary activities that are not considered temporary events. Please
see the provisions in Temporary Uses.
   (C)   Application for a temporary event permit. The temporary event sponsor
shall submit an application for a temporary event permit to the County not less
than 45 days prior to the start of the temporary event.
   (D)   Temporary events defined. Temporary events are generally one-time
events, including annual or recurring events. Examples include fairs;
carnivals; rodeos; shows; walking, running, and/or bicycling events and races;
parades, and tent revival meetings. The County may limit the number of
temporary events at a location, including either the same event held on
multiple occasions or different events.
   (E)   Temporary structures. Any temporary structure used for a temporary
event shall be approved by the Fire Marshall or Building Official. This
includes tents, but excludes tables, chairs, umbrellas, or inflatable objects.
   (F)   Verification of compliance with county and agency requirements. Unless
a temporary event is exempt as defined below, the Planning Department shall
verify either that:
      (1)   The event does not require a review or permit by the departments or
agencies listed in division (B), above; or
      (2)   Any required permits from the departments and agencies listed above
have been obtained. Once coordination has been verified by the Planning
Department, a temporary event permit will be issued, and the temporary event
may proceed.
   (G)   Exempt temporary events.
      (1)   The following are exempt from the requirements of this section,
unless they require approval or permits from any of the departments or agencies
listed above:
         (a)   Temporary facilities to accommodate emergency public health and
safety needs and activities.
         (b)   Noncommercial events conducted at private homes (weddings,
parties, etc.), which do not involve the construction of temporary structures
in the required front yard.
         (c)   Yard or garage sales.
         (d)   Holiday displays.
         (e)   Promotional events and grand opening celebrations in established
commercial shopping centers that do not interfere with vehicular traffic on
public or private streets and driveways, do not disrupt the proper functioning
of parking areas, do not involve the outdoor sale of goods and merchandise, and
do not exceed two days in duration.
         (f)   Uses or events which are consistent with the clearly intended
use of the facility (e.g., sporting events in a stadium or a play in a
theater), as determined by the Planning Director.
      (2)   While exempt from the requirements of this chapter, these temporary
events must comply with all applicable county and other requirements.
   (H)   Temporary event standards.
      (1)   Temporary events must comply with the following standards:
         (a)   All parking spaces for patrons and guests shall be provided on-
site where the activity is taking place. On-street or off-site parking may be
used in lieu of on-site parking if approved by the Planning Director.
         (b)   Vehicular access to the event site shall not create traffic
conflicts or congestion on county streets during the operation of the event.
         (c)   Noise created by the event shall not exceed the levels outlined
in the County Noise Ordinance.
         (d)   The concentration or placement of persons, animals, structures,
or vehicles shall not interfere with emergency access.
         (e)   Temporary events shall be limited to three days in length.
      (2)   The County may limit the number of temporary events at a location,
including either the same event held on multiple occasions or different events,
so they shall not become long-term or permanent.
   (I)   Bond and insurance. Bonding or insurance may be required to be in
place in advance of a temporary event, as follows:
      (1)   The County may require a sponsor of a temporary event to post a
bond or to otherwise financially secure that the event location is restored to
its original condition and that the County is fully reimbursed for any
unanticipated law enforcement or emergency medical expenses. The County shall
determine the amount of the bond or other security, and the event sponsor shall
post it with the permitting authority.
      (2)   The County may require that the sponsor of a temporary event show
proof of liability insurance naming the County as an additional insured.
   (J)   Enforcement. The County may require the immediate closure of any
nonexempt event that is operating without a temporary event permit or is not in
compliance with any requirements, conditions, etc., which have been imposed by
the County or any agency.
(Ord. 1043 § 3 (part), 2022)
§ 25.02.006 CROWING FOWL PERMITS.
   (A)   Crowing fowl permit required in the county.
Notwithstanding any other provision in this code, keeping, raising, or
harboring six or more crowing fowl is an unlawful use in the county without a
valid crowing fowl permit.
   (B)   Fees. Permit fees shall be paid annually in the following amounts:
 
6—10 crowing fow$125
11 or more        $1,500
 
   (C)   Administrative permits for crowing fowl.
      (1)   It is unlawful for any person to keep, raise or harbor crowing fowl
within the county without first having obtained an administrative permit
therefor from the Planning Director. The administrative permit shall be a
temporary permit, subject to annual renewal.
      (2)   The Planning Director may issue an administrative permit for the
keeping, raising or harboring of six to ten crowing fowl under any conditions
and restrictions deemed necessary for the protection of animal and/or public
health, safety or welfare, and may specify such conditions and restrictions in
the administrative permit. Every application for a crowing fowl permit shall be
made on crowing fowl permit forms provided by the Planning Department,
accompanied by the appropriate filing fee as established by resolution of the
Board of Supervisors from time to time.
      (3)   Administrative permits may be modified or revoked for the same
reason(s) that a conditional use may be modified or revoked. Any proceedings to
modify or revoke an administrative permit shall be conducted by the Planning
Director.
   (D)   Conditional use permits for crowing fowl. It is unlawful for any
person to house 11 or more crowing fowl without first having obtained a
conditional use permit.
   (E)   Additional findings for denial of conditional use permits for crowing
fowl. The Planning Commission may refuse to issue a conditional use permit for
the housing of crowing fowl to:
      (1)   Any person whose conditional use permit for crowing fowl has been
suspended or revoked, for the period in the case of suspension, during which
the order of suspension is in effect plus an additional one year from the
effective date of the suspension; or, in the case of revocation, for five years
after the effective date of the order of revocation;
      (2)   Any person who has been or is an officer, agent or employee of any
crowing fowl operation whose conditional use permit for crowing fowl has been
suspended or revoked and who was responsible for, or participated in, the
violation upon which the order of suspension or revocation was based, for the
period in the case of suspension, during which the order of suspension is in
effect plus an additional one year from the effective date of the suspension;
or, in the case of revocation, for five years after the effective date of the
order of revocation;
      (3)   Any person who is in violation of any of the provisions of this
title; and
      (4)   Any person who has been convicted of the crime of cruelty to
animals, whether in this state or any other jurisdiction, for a period of ten
years following the service of any sentence or completion of any condition of
conviction, whichever is later.
   (F)   Permit standards. No crowing fowl permit shall be approved unless it
complies with the following standards and the Planning Director, Code
Enforcement Officer, Health Officer and Animal Control Officer find that it
will not cause an adverse impact on the public health, safety or welfare:
      (1)   Compliance with standards. All persons who own, keep, raise, harbor
or maintain crowing fowl shall comply with the crowing fowl housing standards
specified by state regulations.
      (2)   Hours of enclosure. Crowing fowl shall be confined inside the
walled and roofed enclosure between the hours of 8:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m. each
day.
      (3)   Acknowledgment of standards. A copy of the applicable standards for
housing of crowing fowl shall be supplied to any applicant requesting an
application for a crowing fowl permit. By signing the application form, the
applicant shall acknowledge receipt of such standards and shall agree to comply
with them and to allow inspections at reasonable times to confirm compliance
with them.
      (4)   Non-compliance with standards. Each person who owns, keeps, raises,
harbors or maintains crowing fowl shall correct any deficiencies noted by the
Animal Control Officer or Planning Director within a reasonable period of time
as specified by the Animal Control Officer or Planning Director. Plans for new
or remodeled facilities shall be submitted to the Animal Control Officer and
Planning Director for review. Upon request by the Animal Control Officer or
Planning Director, the applicant must make the premises, facilities and
equipment available for the purpose of ascertaining compliance with such
standards.
   (G)   Conditions of approval. Any crowing fowl permit granted shall be
subject to such conditions and restrictions deemed necessary for the protection
of animal and/or the public health, safety and general welfare. The Planning
Commission may provide that issuance of a crowing fowl permit shall be
contingent upon acceptance and observance of specified conditions. In addition,
a crowing fowl permit shall be subject to the following conditions:
      (1)   Compliance with any regulations regarding the keeping or raising of
poultry as a conditional use in the applicable zoning district;
      (2)   Compliance with the housing standards specified by state
regulations;
      (3)   At the time the permit is issued, the applicant shall reside on the
subject property; and
      (4)   The applicant’s consent to inspections at reasonable times without
prior notice by the Planning Director or Animal Control Officer to ensure
continued and ongoing compliance with applicable standards and conditions of
approval.
   (H)   Inspections. Public and animal health, safety and welfare require
periodic inspections of all facilities housing crowing fowl within the county
to ensure the protection of animals kept therein from unhealthy or inhumane
conditions and practices. Accordingly, the Planning Director or Animal Control
Officer shall have the right to inspect at reasonable times and shall inspect
at intervals deemed appropriate by the Planning Director or Animal Control
Officer, all crowing fowl permit holders within the county. As a condition of
the issuance of any permit for crowing fowl, each permit holder shall agree to
allow such inspection, which acknowledgment shall be made as part of the
application and file.
   (I)   Exceptions. The following are exempt from the provisions of this
article:
      (1)   Future Farmers of America (FFA) or 4-H projects conducted by the
occupants on the premises are not subject to the requirements of this article
except that an administrative permit must be filed with the Planning
Department. Administrative permit forms shall be available at the Planning
Department and may be filed free of charge; and
      (2)   Poultry farms of chickens, ducks, geese, pigeons, pheasants,
peafowl, turkeys or guinea fowl that are regulated by a conditional use permit,
conditional uses in agricultural rangeland, and conditional uses in
agricultural productive district, are not subject to the requirements of this
article.
(Ord. 1043 § 3 (part), 2022)
§ 25.02.007 LOT LINE ADJUSTMENTS.
   The Planning Division shall review lot line adjustment requests with the
development standards of the zoning code through the zoning clearance process
and provide input to the Public Works Division.
(Ord. 1043 § 3 (part), 2022)
§ 25.02.008 MINOR MODIFICATIONS TO DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS.
   (A)   Purpose.
      (1)   This section allows for adjustments to certain zoning code
provisions to allow creative design solutions and to accommodate unique site
conditions. Adjustments are not intended to convey special privileges to a
property beyond what would be otherwise permitted within the zoning district
and are only for minor deviations from the code. See the Variances section in §
25.02.009 for more significant deviations from the code and §
25.07.009, Height Exceptions.
      (2)   While a minor modification allows for creative design, the variance
is reserved for limited circumstances where the property is severely
constrained through dimension, topographical, or other site limitations.
   (B)   Applicability. An adjustment may be granted to modify certain
requirements of this zoning code, as listed in Table 25.02-B.
Table 25.02-B
Minor Modification Amounts
Standard Maximum Reduction or Increase
Standard                                  Maximum Reduction or Increase
Parking or loading spaces                 10% reduction in number of required
                                          spaces
Setbacks                                  20% reduction in required setback
Maximum lot coverage                      10% increase in allowed coverage
Maximum height                            10% increase in height
Fence/wall height                         Up to 2 feet increase in height
Landscaping (required area)               10% decrease
Grading (amount approved through major or 10% increase or decrease
minor development plan review)
 
   (C)   Exclusions. Minor modifications cannot be granted for any of the
following standards:
      (1)   Lot area, width, or depth.
      (2)   Residential density.
   (D)   Application. An application for a minor modification shall be filed to
the Planning Division. The application shall state in writing the nature of the
request and explain how the required findings are satisfied. The applicant
shall also submit dimensioned plans illustrating the requested minor
modification.
   (E)   Procedures.
      (1)   The Planning Director makes final determinations on adjustment
applications. The Planning Director may choose to refer any adjustment
application to the Planning Commission for hearing and decision.
      (2)   Public notice and hearing. Minor modifications do not require a
public hearing or notice.
   (F)   Findings. The review authority may approve an adjustment, with or
without conditions, only after first making all of the following findings:
      (1)   That the proposed development is of sufficient size and is designed
to provide a desirable environment within its own boundaries.
      (2)   The proposed development is compatible with existing and proposed
land uses in the surrounding area.
      (3)   That any exceptions to or deviations from the density, requirements
or design standards result in the creation of project amenities that would not
be available through strict adherence to code provisions (e.g., additional open
space, protection of natural resources, improved pedestrian connectivity,
public plazas, etc.).
      (4)   Granting the adjustment will not adversely affect the interests of
the public or the interests of residents and property owners in the vicinity of
the premises in question.
      (5)   The adjustment is consistent with the general plan or any
applicable specific plan or development agreement.
      (6)   The adjustment is the minimum required.
      (7)   The adjustment does not grant a privilege not available to other
properties where an adjustment was not granted.
   (G)   Conditions of approval. In approving an adjustment, the review
authority may do the following:
      (1)   Impose conditions to ensure that the adjustment does not grant
special privileges inconsistent with the limitations on other properties in the
vicinity and zoning district in which the property is located.
      (2)   Impose conditions (e.g., the placement, height, nature, and extent
of the use, buffers, landscaping and maintenance, off-site improvements,
performance guarantees, screening, surfacing, hours of operation) to ensure
that the approval complies with the findings required by this chapter.
(Ord. 1043 § 3 (part), 2022)
§ 25.02.009 VARIANCES.
   (A)   Purpose. This chapter is intended to provide relief from the strict
application of this title where this would deprive the property owner of
privileges enjoyed by similar properties because of the subject property’s
unique and special conditions.
   (B)   Applicability.
      (1)   Variances may be granted to vary or modify physical development
standards.
      (2)   Variances may not be granted to allow uses or activities that this
title does not authorize for a specific lot or site.
   (C)   Review authority. The Planning Commission is empowered to grant
variances, in order to prevent or lessen the practical difficulties and
unnecessary physical hardships inconsistent with the objectives of this title
as would result from a strict or literal interpretation and enforcement of
certain of the regulations described by this title. The Commission shall
approve only such variances as are in harmony with the general purpose and
intent of this title and in accordance with the specific regulations set forth
here and after.
   (D)   Criteria for issuance.
      (1)   Variances from the terms of this title shall be granted only when,
because of special circumstances applicable to the property, including size,
shape, topography, location or surroundings, the strict application of this
chapter deprived the property of privileges enjoyed by other property in the
vicinity and under identical zoning classification.
      (2)   Any variance granted shall be subject to such conditions as will
assure that the adjustment thereby authorized shall not constitute a grant to
special privileges inconsistent with the limitations upon other property in the
vicinity and zone in which the property is situated.
      (3)   A variance shall be approved only when the strict and literal
interpretation of regulations in the particular case would involve practical
difficulties or unnecessary hardships, and only to the extent necessary to
overcome the difficulties or unnecessary hardships.
   (E)   Hearings. The Commission shall hold a public hearing on each
application for a variance as provided in the public hearing section of this
title.
   (F)   Findings. A variance in whole or in part or subject to conditions may
be approved by the Commission if from the information presented in the
application and at the public hearing it appears to be in compliance with the
criteria set forth in this chapter and the Commission makes all of the
following findings:
      (1)   That there are exceptional or extraordinary circumstances applying
to the property involved or to the proposed use;
      (2)   Granting the variance is necessary for the preservation and
enjoyment of substantial property rights possessed by other property owners in
the same vicinity and zoning district, and denied to the subject property
owner;
      (3)   That the allowance of the variance will not, under the
circumstances of the particular case, be materially detrimental to the public
welfare or materially injurious to persons or property in the vicinity; and
      (4)   The proposed project would be compatible with the existing
aesthetics, character, and scale of the surrounding neighborhood, and considers
impacts on neighboring properties.
(Ord. 1043 § 3 (part), 2022)
§ 25.02.010 REASONABLE ACCOMMODATION.
   (A)   Purpose. This chapter establishes the procedures to request reasonable
accommodation for persons with disabilities seeking equal access to housing
under the California Fair Employment and Housing Act, the Federal Fair Housing
Act, and the Americans with Disabilities Act (“the Acts”) in the application of
zoning law and other land use regulations, policies, procedures, and conditions
of approval.
   (B)   Applicability.
      (1)   A request for reasonable accommodation may be made by any person
with a disability, their representative, or any other entity, when the
application of zoning law or other land use regulation, policy, or procedure
acts as a barrier to fair housing opportunities.
      (2)   A person with a disability is a person who has a physical or mental
impairment that limits or substantially limits one or more major life
activities, anyone who is regarded as having this type of impairment, or anyone
who has a record of this type of impairment.
      (3)   A request for reasonable accommodation may include a change or
exception to the practices, rules, and standards for the development, siting,
and use of housing or housing- related facilities that would eliminate
regulatory barriers and provide a person with a disability equal opportunity to
housing of their choice.
   (C)   Review Authority. The Director shall act as the Review Authority for
reasonable accommodation applications based on consideration of the
requirements of this chapter. Requests submitted for concurrent review with
another discretionary land use application shall be reviewed by the Review
Authority for the discretionary land use application.
   (D)   Application. An application for a reasonable accommodation shall be
prepared, filed, and processed in compliance with the provisions of the
Applications section in §
25.01.013. No noticing or public hearing are required for a reasonable
accommodation request. In addition to any other information required under the
San Benito County Code, an applicant submitting a request for reasonable
accommodation must provide the following information:
      (1)   Description of the accommodation request;
      (2)   The applicant’s name, address, and telephone number;
      (3)   Location of the subject property, including address and assessor’s
parcel numbers;
      (4)   Name and address of the property owner and the owner’s written
consent to the application;
      (5)   The current actual use of the subject property;
      (6)   Verifiable documentation of the individual’s disability status;
      (7)   The regulation(s), policy, or procedure for which accommodation is
sought;
      (8)   Reason that the requested accommodation may be necessary for the
individual(s) with the disability to use and enjoy the dwelling; and
      (9)   Additional information necessary for County Planning Division staff
to facilitate proper consideration of the request, consistent with fair housing
laws.
   (E)   Procedures. The Director shall make a written determination within 45
days of the application being deemed complete and either approve, modify, or
deny a request for reasonable accommodation in compliance with the required
findings in division (F) below.
   (F)   Required findings. The Director must consider all of the following
factors in order to approve or deny a request for reasonable accommodation that
will be consistent with the Acts.
      (1)   Whether the housing, which is the subject of the request, will be
used by an individual defined as disabled under the Acts;
      (2)   Whether the request for reasonable accommodation is necessary to
make specific housing available to an individual with a disability under the
Acts;
      (3)   Whether the requested reasonable accommodation would impose an
undue financial or administrative burden on the County; and
      (4)   Whether the requested reasonable accommodation would require a
fundamental alteration of a county program or law, including but not limited to
land use and zoning.
   (G)   Conditions of approval. In granting a request for reasonable
accommodation, the Review Authority may impose any conditions of approval
deemed reasonable and necessary to ensure that the reasonable accommodation
would comply with the findings required herein. The conditions shall also state
whether the accommodation granted shall terminate if the recipient of the
accommodation was requested no longer resides on the property.
   (H)   Appeals, expiration, extensions, and revisions.
      (1)   Appeals. Reasonable Accommodation decisions may be appealed as
provided for in §
25.02.010.
      (2)   Expiration, extensions, and revisions. Reasonable accommodations
may only be expired, extended, or revised as provided for in §
25.02.010. A reasonable accommodation may be terminated if the accommodation is
no longer required, or if the recipient of the accommodation no longer resides
at the property.
(Ord. 1043 § 3 (part), 2022)
§ 25.02.011 ZONING CLEARANCE.
   (A)   Purpose. Zoning clearance is a nondiscretionary administrative
verification procedure used by the County to verify that a proposed land use,
improvement, or structure complies with the list of activities allowed in the
applicable zone and the development standards applicable to the use,
improvement, or structure.
   (B)   Applicability. Where §
25.01.011 or another provision of this zoning code requires a zoning clearance
as a prerequisite to establishing a land use, improvement, or structure, a
zoning clearance shall be required at the time of the Director’s review of any
of the following:
      (1)   Initiation of a land use. A zoning clearance shall be obtained
before the initiation or commencement of any use of land not requiring the
construction of a structure or improvement.
      (2)   Change of use.
         (a)   Whenever a use is proposed to be changed from a use for which a
zoning clearance has been issued, whether or not the new use involves a new
lessee, operator, or owner, a new zoning clearance shall first be obtained.
         (b)   A zoning clearance shall also be required even if the lessee,
operator, or owner of the previous use did not file for or receive a zoning
clearance.
      (3)   Business license. A zoning clearance shall be obtained before the
County issues a new or modified business license.
      (4)   Other activities. Any other activities as specified in this zoning
code.
      (5)   Accessory dwelling units. Unless otherwise exempt, a zoning
clearance for accessory dwelling units shall be obtained prior to submittal of
an application for a building plan check and a permit to construct an accessory
dwelling unit.
   (C)   Review Authority. The Director or his/her designee shall act as the
Review Authority for zoning clearance applications based on consideration of
the requirements of this chapter.
   (D)   Review procedure.
      (1)   Application. Applications and fees for A zoning clearance shall be
submitted in accordance with the provisions set forth in the zoning code. The
Director may request that the zoning clearance application be accompanied by a
written narrative, plans, and other related materials necessary to show that
the proposed development, alteration, or use of the site complies with all
provisions of this title and the requirements and conditions of any applicable
use permit or other discretionary land use approval.
      (2)   Determination. If the Director determines that the proposed use or
structure is allowed as a matter of right by this title and conforms to all the
applicable development and use standards, the Director shall issue a zoning
clearance. An approved zoning clearance may include attachments of other
written or graphic information, including but not limited to, statements,
numeric data, site plans, floor plans, and building elevations and sections, as
a record of the proposal’s conformity with the applicable regulations of this
title. Prior to issuing any building permit or subdivision approval, the
Director shall review the application to determine whether the use or structure
complies with all provisions of this title or any applicable use permit or
other discretionary land use approval and that all conditions of such permits
and approvals have been satisfied.
      (3)   Exceptions. No zoning clearance shall be required for the
continuation of previously approved or permitted uses and structures or uses
and structures that are not subject to any building or zoning regulations.
(Ord. 1043 § 3 (part), 2022)
§ 25.02.012 MODIFICATION, REVOCATION AND TERMINATION.
   (A)   Purpose. This chapter provides procedures for securing modification or
revocation of previously approved permits or approvals.
   (B)   Process. Modification, revocation, or termination shall take place in
the same manner in which the permit or application was originally approved, and
by the same body which made the approval. If a public hearing was required for
the original approval, a public hearing shall be required to consider
modification, revocation, or termination.
   (C)   Modifications.
      (1)   The County’s action to modify a permit or approval, instead of
revocation, may include conditioning any operational aspect of the project,
including buffers, duration of the permit or entitlement, hours of operation,
noise, landscaping and maintenance, lighting, parking, performance guarantees,
property maintenance, signs, surfacing, traffic circulation, or any other
aspect/condition determined to be reasonable and necessary to ensure that the
permit or approval is operated in a manner consistent with the original
findings for approval.
      (2)   The County shall provide a notice of intention to modify to the
owner(s) of the property and any current occupants of the property not less
than 30 days before the public hearing at which the Review Authority is
scheduled to consider the modification.
   (D)   Revocations or termination.
      (1)   The County’s action to revoke or terminate a permit or approval,
instead of modifying it, shall have the effect of terminating the permit or
approval and denying the privileges granted by the original permit or approval.
      (2)   The County shall provide a notice of intention to revoke to the
owner(s) of the property and any current occupants of the property not less
than 30 days before the public hearing at which the Review Authority is
scheduled to consider the revocation.
         (a)   Hearings required. The Review Authority that approved the
original permit or approval shall hold a public hearing to modify or revoke a
permit or approval granted in compliance with the provisions of this title. The
hearing shall be conducted in compliance with public hearings in §
25.01.007 unless otherwise specified in this section.
         (b)   Notice. Permit modification and revocation shall be subject to
review and approval or denial at a noticed public hearing in compliance with
the public hearings section in §
25.01.007.
         (c)   Appeal. A decision on a permit modification or revocation shall
be subject to the appeals section in §
25.01.008.
   (E)   Required findings. Any permit or approval, issued in compliance with
this title, may be modified or revoked by the Review Authority that originally
granted the permit or approval by the same procedure under which the permit was
issued for any of the following causes:
      (1)   Compliance with any term or condition of the permit or approval has
not been achieved;
      (2)   The property or portion thereof subject to the permit or approval
is used or maintained in violation of any statute, ordinance, law, or
regulation;
      (3)   The use for which the permit or approval was granted has been
determined to be detrimental to the public health, safety or welfare and is a
nuisance; or
      (4)   Changes in technology or in the type or amount of development in
the vicinity of the use, or other good cause, warrants modification of the
conditions of operation or imposition of additional conditions of operation to
assure that the use remains compatible with existing and potential uses or
other property within the general area in which the use is located.
(Ord. 1043 § 3 (part), 2022)
CHAPTER 25.03: ZONING MAP AND ZONING DISTRICTS
Section
   
25.03.001   Purpose and intent
   
25.03.002   Official zoning map
   
25.03.003   Establishment and designation of zoning districts
   
25.03.004   Agricultural and rural districts
   
25.03.005   Residential districts
   
25.03.006   Commercial districts
   
25.03.007   Industrial districts
   
25.03.008   Public/quasi-public districts
§ 25.03.001 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   Zones have been established to classify, regulate, and restrict the uses of
land and buildings; regulate and restrict the height and bulk of buildings;
regulate the area of yards and other open spaces about buildings; and regulate
the density of people.
(Ord. 1043 § 3 (part), 2022)
§ 25.03.002 OFFICIAL ZONING MAP.
   (A)   The boundaries of the zones established by this title are not included
in this title but are shown on the official zoning map maintained by the
Planning Division. The official zoning map, together with all legends, symbols,
notations, references, zone boundaries, map symbols, and other information on
the maps, have been adopted by the Board of Supervisors and are hereby
incorporated into this code by reference, together with any amendments
previously or hereafter adopted, as though they were fully included here.
   (B)   A digital version of the official zoning map is available on the
County’s web site.
(Ord. 1043 § 3 (part), 2022)
§ 25.03.003 ESTABLISHMENT AND DESIGNATION OF ZONING DISTRICTS.
   (A)   The county is divided into zones to allow for orderly, planned
development and to implement the general plan.
   (B)   
Table 25.03-A (Zones Implementing the General Plan) identifies all zones in San
Benito County. All zones shall be listed and appropriately designated on the
official zoning map.
      (1)   Base zones. Every parcel shall have a base zone that establishes
the primary type and intensity of land use permitted, along with development
regulations for that particular type and intensity of land use.
      (2)   Specific plan zones. Adopted specific plans located in the county
are identified in Chapter 25.06 of this code.
      (3)   Combining zones. A combining zone supplements the base zone for the
purpose of establishing special use or development regulations for a particular
area in addition to the provisions of the underlying base zone. In the event of
conflict between the base zone regulations and the combining zone regulations,
the provisions of the combining zone shall apply. Combining zones and their
regulations are in Chapter 25.04 of this code.
Table 25.03-A
Zones Implementing the General Plan
Zone Symbol Zone District Name General Plan Land Use Designation Implemented by
                               Zone
BASE ZONES
Zone Symbol Zone District Name        General Plan Land Use Designation
                                      Implemented by Zone
BASE ZONES
Agricultural Zones
AR          Agricultural Rangeland    Rangeland (RG)
AP          Agricultural Productive   Agriculture (A)
R           Rural                     Rural (R)
RT          Rural Transitional        Rural Transition (RT)
Residential Zones
RR          Rural Residential         Residential Rural (RR)
R-1         Single Family Residential Residential Rural (RR); Residential Mixed
                                      (RM)
RM          Residential Mixed         Residential Multiple (RM)
Commercial Zones
C-1         Commercial Thoroughfare   Commercial Thoroughfare (CT)
C-2         Neighborhood Commercial   Commercial Neighborhood (CN)
Industrial Zones
BP          Business Park             Industrial Light (IL)
M-1         Light Industrial          Industrial Light (IL)
M-2         Heavy Industrial          Industrial Heavy (IH)
Public/Quasi-Public Zones
PQP         Public/Quasi-Public       Public/Quasi-Public (PQP)
RRP         Resource Recovery Park    Public/Quasi-Public (PQP)
Specific Plan Zones
   Santana Ranch Specific Plan     Santana Ranch Specific Plan (SRSP)
   Fairview Corners Specific Plan  Fairview Corners Specific Plan (FCSP)
   San Juan Oaks Specific Plan     San Juan Oaks Specific Plan (SJOSP)
 
 
Zone Symbol Zone District Name               General Plan Land Use Designation
                                             Implemented by Zone
COMBINING ZONES
ES          Emergency Shelter Combining Zone N/A
AS          Airport Safety Combining Zone    N/A1
FLA         Frazier Lake Airpark Combining   N/A1
            Zone
HMA         Hollister Municipal Airport      N/A1
            Combining Zone
1. These combining zones implement the Airport Land Use Compatibility Plan for
each airport.
 
(Ord. 1043 § 3 (part), 2022)
§ 25.03.004 AGRICULTURAL AND RURAL DISTRICTS.
   (A)   (1)   The intent of the agricultural zones is to maintain the
productivity of agricultural land, especially prime farmland, as well as
maintain open space and grazing in more remote areas of the county. The rural
zones are intended to serve as a transitional area between agricultural to
rural areas and rural to urban areas. Single-family dwellings, accessory
dwellings and farm worker housing are allowed in these zones, as appropriate
for the level of available infrastructure.
      (2)   These zones implement the agriculture land use designation of the
general plan.
   (B)   Agricultural Rangeland (AR) District — Intent. The intent of this
district is to provide for areas within the county to be used for agricultural
rangeland purposes as set forth in the general plan. Very low-density
residential development and farmworker housing are permitted due to the lack of
public infrastructure and for the preservation of open space and agriculture.
   (C)   Agricultural Productive (AP) District — Intent. The intent of the AP
district is to provide for areas within the county to be used for agricultural
production of any type as set forth in the general plan, including agriculture
support uses, vineyards, wineries and winery supporting land uses. Low-density
residential uses, and the preservation of prime farmland. Low-density and
farmworker housing are also permitted.
   (D)   Rural (R) District — Intent. The intent of this district is to allow
very low-density residential development in areas within the county that are
not primarily suited for agricultural uses, and lack infrastructure needed for
higher density development. The R zone is intended to provide areas for
mixtures of housing and small-scale agricultural uses.
   (E)   Rural Transitional (RT) District — Intent. The RT district is intended
to provide a buffer of rural development between areas of residential
development and agricultural areas in order to minimize the conversion of
agricultural lands to urban uses.
   (F)   AR, AP, R, and RT permitted uses. The following table designates uses
are permitted, administratively permitted, conditionally permitted, or
prohibited in an AR, AP, R, and RT districts. These uses apply to every lot and
building site in the AR, AP, R, and RT zoning districts, except where modified
by a combining zone.
Table 25.03-B
Land Uses - Agricultural Zones
P =    Permitted Use
A =    Administrative Use Permit Required
C =    Conditional Use Permit Required
“—” =    Use Not Allowed
Some new structures require review, per §
25.02.001 of this code
Land Use       Agricultural Agricultural Rural Rural
Classification Range land   Productive   (R)   Transition Notes and Additional Regulations
               (AR)         (AP)               (RT)
Agricultural Uses1 See note 1 to this table for all agricultural uses.
Commercial
agriculture    P            P            P     —         
(see Glossary)
Commercial     C            C            C     —         
composting
Commercial
mushroom       C            C            C     —         
growing
Crowing fowl   A            A            A     —         
(6-10)
Crowing fowl   C            C            C     —         
(11+)
Indoor
commercial     C            C            C     C           
production of
plants
Commercial
livestock farm
or ranch
involving
poultry or     P            P            P     —         
small or large
livestock able
to roam and/or
feed over a
large area
Commercial
livestock farm
or ranch
involving
concentrations
of poultry or
small or large
livestock      A            C            C     —         
animals in a
central
location, such
as a chicken
ranch, dairy,
feed lot and
similar uses
Rangeland
grazing of     P            P            —   —         
small or large
livestock
Non-commercial                                            See “Animal Keeping” standards in
raising of     P            P            P     P          Chapter 25.08 for limits on number of
poultry or                                                animals.
other animals
Future Farmers
of America
(FFA) or 4-
H projects,    P            P            —   —         
conducted by
residents of
the premises.
Wholesale      P            P            P     P           
plant nursery
 
Land Use       Agricultural   Agricultural           Rural       Notes and
Classification Rangeland (AR) Productive   Rural (R) Transition  Additional
                              (AP)                   (RT)        Regulations
Commercial Uses
                                                                               Agricultural Agricultural Rural Rural      Notes and
Land Use Classification                                                        Rangeland    Productive   (R)   Transition Additional
                                                                               (AR)         (AP)               (RT)       Regulations
Commercial Uses
Bed and breakfast establishments                                               C            C            C     —         
Hotel or motel                                                                 C            C            C     —         
Winery                                                                         A            A            A     —         
                                                                                                                          Sale of
                                                                                                                          other
                                                                                                                          products,
                                                                                                                          including
Sale of agricultural products, including products not produced in San Benito   A            A            A     A          pre-packaged
County                                                                                                                    and prepared
                                                                                                                          food,
                                                                                                                          allowed as
                                                                                                                          an accessory
                                                                                                                          use.
                                                                                                                          Sale of
                                                                                                                          other
                                                                                                                          products,
                                                                                                                          including
Sale of agricultural products produced in San Benito County                    P            P            P     P          pre-packaged
                                                                                                                          and prepared
                                                                                                                          food,
                                                                                                                          allowed as
                                                                                                                          an accessory
                                                                                                                          use.
Commercial Cannabis/Hemp Uses1 See note 1 to this table for all cannabis uses.
                                                                                                                          Subject to
                                                                                                                          additional
Indoor or outdoor cultivation of commercial cannabis; transport of crops to                                               requirements
offsite locations (not including “distribution” as defined in Title 7,     C            C            C     —        of Title 7,
Chapter 7.02 of the County Code                                                                                           Chapter 7.02
                                                                                                                          of the
                                                                                                                          County Code
Laboratory testing of commercial cannabis or hemp and/or cannabis or hemp      C            C            C     —         
products
Manufacturing of commercial cannabis or hemp (mixed light, including nurseries C            C            C     —         
and distribution)
Industrial Uses1 See note 1 to this table for all Industrial uses.
Abattoir (slaughterhouse)                                                      C            C            C     —         
Agricultural processing of products grown onsite                               P            P            P     —         
Agricultural processing of products not grown onsite                           C            C            C     —         
 
Land Use       Agricultural   Agricultural           Rural       Notes and
Classification Rangeland (AR) Productive   Rural (R) Transition  Additional
                              (AP)                   (RT)        Regulations
Land Use       Agricultural   Agricultural           Rural       Notes and
Classification Rangeland (AR) Productive   Rural (R) Transition  Additional
                              (AP)                   (RT)        Regulations
Cannery        —            —          —       —          
Pallet and
agricultural   C              C            C         —          
bin
manufacturing
Off-site truck
parking in
service of     C              C            C         —          
agricultural
operations
Residential Uses1 See note 1 to this table for all Residential uses.
                                                                 Per the
Single-family                                                    density
dwelling       P              P            P         P           requirements
                                                                 of the General
                                                                 Plan
                                                                 See §
Tiny homes     P              P            P         P           25.08.029 for
                                                                 tiny homes
                                                                 standards
                                                                 See §
Accessory                                                        25.08.002 for
dwelling unit  P              P            P         P           accessory
                                                                 dwelling unit
                                                                 standards
Group home     P              P            P         P            
(small)
Group home     C              C            C         C            
(large)
Permanent
agricultural
employee
housing, not
exceeding 12
dwelling units
(including     P              P            P         P           See Note 2
mobile homes
and RVs, or
spaces for
mobile homes
and RVs), or
36 beds in
group quarters
Permanent
agricultural
employee
housing        C              C            —       —         See Note 2
exceeding 12
dwelling units
or 36 beds in
group quarters
Labor supply
employee       P              P            P         P           See Note 2
housing
Seasonal
agricultural   P              P            P         P           See Note 2
employee
housing
Temporary
agricultural   P              P            P         P           See Note 2
employee
housing
Senior/
congregate     P              P            P         P            
care
Transitional
and supportive P              P            P         P            
housing
 
Land Use       Agricultural   Agricultural           Rural       Notes and
Classification Rangeland (AR) Productive   Rural (R) Transition  Additional
                              (AP)                   (RT)        Regulations
Land Use       Agricultural Agricultural Rural Rural      Notes and Additional
Classification Rangeland    Productive   (R)   Transition Regulations
               (AR)         (AP)               (RT)
Recreational Uses
Commercial
outdoor
recreational
uses,
including but
not limited to C            C            C     C           
RV parks,
hunting clubs
and riding
clubs and golf
courses
Private
outdoor
camping
facilities,    C            C            C     C           
including
cabins and
tent camping
Other/Institutional/Utility
Aircraft
landing field/ C            C            C     C           
helipad
Assembly uses,
including
places of
worship,
private clubs, C            C            C     C           
fraternity/
sorority
houses, senior
centers
Bus stops,
park and ride  P            P            P     P           
lots, transit
stops
Cemetery
(includes      C            C            C     C           
columbarium)
Day care,      P            P            P     P           
small family
Day care,      A            A            A     A           
large family
Day care       C            C            C     C           
center
Educational                                               Public schools are not
institution,   C            C            C     C          regulated by this title
private
Hobby kennels  A            A            A     —        See “Animal Keeping” in
                                                          Chapter 25.08
Hospital       C            C            C     C           
Kennels,
including,
without        C            —          —   —        See “Animal Keeping” in
limitation,                                               Chapter 25.08
kennels for
hybrid animals
Library or
museum not                                                Publicly operated libraries
operated by a  A            A            A     A          and museums are not
governmental                                              regulated by this title
entity
 
Land Use       Agricultural   Agricultural           Rural       Notes and
Classification Rangeland (AR) Productive   Rural (R) Transition  Additional
                              (AP)                   (RT)        Regulations
Land Use          Agricultural Agricultural           Rural       Notes and
Classification    Rangeland    Productive   Rural (R) Transition  Additional
                  (AR)         (AP)                   (RT)        Regulations
Microwave, radio                                                  Facilities
and television                                                    regulated by
transmission and/ C            C            C         C           the PUC are
or relay                                                          not regulated
structures                                                        by this title
Private
enterprise
performing        C            C            C         C            
governmental
functions
                                                                  Publicly
Radio frequency                                                   operated
emission                                                          radio
measuring                                                         frequency
facilities (if    C            C            C         C           emission
privately                                                         measuring
operated)                                                         facility not
                                                                  regulated by
                                                                  this title
Railway stations,
multi-modal       C            C            C         C            
transit centers
Renewable energy                                                  See §
generation        C            C            C         —         25.08.016 for
facilities,                                                       development
commercial                                                        standards
Renewable energy
generation                                                        See §
facilities,       A            A            A         —         25.08.016 for
commercial and                                                    development
private non-                                                      standards
commercial
Surface mining,                                                   Must comply
including                                                         with Surface
concrete and                                                      Mining
asphalt batch     C            C            C         C           Ordinance,
plants and                                                        Title 19 of
concrete and                                                      the County
asphalt recycling                                                 Code
plants
Veterinary
hospitals and pet C            C            C         —          
clinics
Accessory/        Regulated as a use per this table. Administrative use permit
incidental uses   or conditional use permit required if shown in the table
                  above.
Wireless          See the Wireless Telecommunication regulations in Title 7 of
telecommunication the County Code
facilities
Similar uses      See “Interpretations” in
                  Chapter 25.01
Note 1:   All agricultural, cannabis, industrial and residential uses in
agricultural zones can be a primary use, if consistent with the general plan
land use designation for the property.
Note 2:   Farmworker housing provided by an employer must comply with all
provisions of Cal. Health and Safety Code § 17008(a). Farmworker housing
provided by someone other than an agricultural employer must comply with all
provisions of Cal. Health and Safety Code § 17008(b).
 
   (G)   Agricultural and rural district development standards. Table 25.03-
C establishes the basic development standards for the agricultural and rural
zones. Development standards for specific uses are provided in
Chapter 25.08. The regulations in this section apply to every lot and building
site in the AR, AP, R, and RT zoning districts, except where modified by a
combining zone.
Table 25.03-C
Development Standards - Agricultural Zones
Development Standard Agricultural   Agricultural    Rural (R) Rural Transition
                     Rangeland (AR) Productive (AP)           (RT)
Development     Agricultural    Agricultural    Rural (R)       Rural
Standard        Rangeland (AR)  Productive (AP)                 Transition (RT)
Lot and Density Standards
Maximum density 1 dwelling unit 1 dwelling unit 1 dwelling unit 1 dwelling unit
1               per 40 acres 1  per 5 acres 1   per 5 acres 1   per 2.5 acres 1
Minimum lot     40 acres        5 acres         5 acres         2.5 acres
size
Setbacks and Height Limits
Front setback   30 feet         25 feet         25 feet 2       25 feet 2
Side, interior  32 feet         32 feet         32 feet 2       32 feet 2
setback
Rear setback    35 feet         35 feet         35 feet 2       35 feet 2
                                required
Distance
between         Subject to requirements of California Building Code
buildings
Maximum
building height 35              35              35              35
(feet)
Development standards for accessory structures are provided in §§
25.07.006,
25.07.007, and
25.07.008.
1.   Accessory dwelling units do not count toward density. See §
25.08.002.
2.   R & RT zones - in state responsibility area, a vegetation clearance
easement may be required for defensible space for firefighting, see County Fire
Department.
 
(Ord. 1043 § 3 (part), 2022)
§ 25.03.005 RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS.
   (A)   The intent of the residential districts is to provide for a range of
housing types consistent with the general plan and other compatible land uses
that will support and enhance the residential environment.
   (B)   Rural Residential (RR) District - Intent.
      (1)   The RR zone is intended to provide areas of mixtures of housing and
limited agricultural uses. The single-family dwelling is the primary use while
agricultural uses are intended to be of secondary importance. This category
applies to areas in proximity to urban services. The density of this zone shall
be a maximum of one dwelling unit per acre, unless a public sewer and public
water service is available or the municipality accepts wastewater treatment
responsibility, at which point the minimum net parcel size may be reduced to
one-half acre. The following regulations except to the extent they may be
modified by this title or by a combining or overlay district, shall apply to
every lot and building in the RR district.
      (2)   Development applications are by county policy referred to the city
that would provide services to the project.
   (C)   Residential districts.
      (1)   These residential districts are established to provide areas in
suitable locations for the various types of dwelling accommodations needed in
the county and to provide a means of regulating the density and distribution of
the population in conformance with the general plan.
      (2)   There are two residential zones which implement the residential
mixed land use designation of the general plan:
         (a)   Single-family residential; or
         (b)   Residential multiple.
   (D)   Single-Family Residential (R-1) District.
      (1)   The intent of the R-1 district is to provide primarily for the
development of single-family neighborhoods, with appropriate supporting uses.
Attached or multi-family housing is not permitted, except for accessory
dwelling units and where state law mandates approval of these types of housing.
      (2)   Development intensity is established in part by the availability of
public water and sewer service. In areas where both are available, smaller lot
sizes can be created. Where one or both is not available, lot sizes will be
limited by the availability of local soils and underground water to provide
sufficient capacity consistent with the Building Code and other health
regulations.
   (E)   Residential Multiple (RM) District - Intent and application of
article.
      (1)   The intent of the RM district is to allow for areas of multiple-
family dwellings, in areas already developed to urban density, as well as
having utility services to allow this density to continue. This will allow
unincorporated pockets of urban concentration to occur where public sewer and
water, as well as circulation, other utilities and services exist or can be
provided.
      (2)   This zoning designation is to be located where commercial services,
recreational facilities and public services, such as shopping and health care,
are available within a reasonable distance. The following regulations, as set
out in this article, except to the extent that they may be modified by a
combining or overlay district, or any adopted specific plan, shall apply to
every lot and building site in an RM district.
      (3)   An adopted specific plan may establish, without limitation, a
separate list of permitted and conditionally permitted land uses, site
development standards, height and coverage limitations and building setbacks
for all land within the boundaries of the specific plan.
      (4)   Development intensity is established in part by the availability of
public water and sewer service. In areas where both are available, smaller lot
sizes can be created. Where one or both is not available, lot sizes will be
limited by the availability of local soils and underground water to provide
sufficient capacity consistent with the Building Code and other health
regulations.
   (F)   RR, R-1, and RM permitted uses. The following table designates uses
are permitted, administratively permitted, conditionally permitted, or
prohibited in an RR, R-1, and RM districts. These uses apply to every lot and
building site in the RR, R-1, and RM zoning districts, except where modified by
a combining zone.
Table 25.03-D
Land Uses - Residential Zones
P =   Permitted Use
A =   Administrative Use Permit Required
C =   Conditional Use Permit Required
“—” =   Use Not Allowed
All new structures require review, per
Chapter 25.02 of this code
               Rural       Single      Residential
Land Use       Residential Family      Multiple    Additional Regulations
Classification (RR)        Residential (RM)
                           (R-1)
Agricultural Uses
Commercial
agricultural   P           —         —          
as defined in
the Glossary
Hobby/personal P           P           P            
agriculture
Small
livestock      P           —         —          
farming
Sale of
agricultural
produce grown  P           P           P            
on the
premises
Residential Uses
Single-family
dwelling,      P           P           C            
primary
Additional                                         Must meet density requirements of the
single-family  P           P           P           general plan
dwellings
Tiny homes     P           P           P           See §
                                                   25.08.029 for tiny homes standards
Accessory      P           P           P           See accessory dwelling unit standards in §
dwelling unit                                      25.08.002
Boarding house P           P           P            
Duplex or      —         —         P            
half-plex
Group home     P           P           P            
(small)
Group home     C           C           C            
(large)
Mobile home    —         —         P            
park
 
Land Use       Rural Residential  Single Family     Residential   Additional
Classification (RR)               Residential (R-1) Multiple (RM) Regulations
               Rural       Single      Residential
Land Use       Residential Family      Multiple    Additional Regulations
Classification (RR)        Residential (RM)
                           (R-1)
Multiple-                                          A mix of residential development types is required in the R-1 for
family                                             projects of more than 5 units where public water and sewer are
dwellings,     —         See Note    P           available. Project must meet general plan density requirements
condominiums                                       for the RM land use designation (Land Use Table 3-1)
and apartments
Senior/
congregate     P           P           P            
care
Transitional
and supportive P           P           P            
housing
Other
Assembly uses,
including
places of
worship,
private clubs, C           C           C            
fraternity/
sorority
houses, senior
centers
Bus stops,
park and ride  P           P           P            
lots, transit
stops
Cemetery
(includes      C           C           C            
columbarium)
Commercial
outdoor
recreational
uses,
including but
not limited to C           —         —          
RV parks,
hunting clubs
and riding
clubs and golf
courses
Day care,                                          Must be operated in accordance with Cal. Health and Safety Code,
small and      P           P           P           Div. 2, Chapter 3.6, §§ 1597.44, 1597.45, 1597.46, and 1597.465
large family
Day care       C           C           C            
center
Educational
institution,   C           C           C           Public schools are not regulated by this title
private
 
Land Use       Rural Residential  Single Family     Residential   Additional
Classification (RR)               Residential (R-1) Multiple (RM) Regulations
Land Use        Rural            Single Family   Residential   Additional
Classification  Residential (RR) Residential (R- Multiple (RM) Regulations
                                 1)
Hospital        C                C               C              
Library or                                                     Publicly
museum not                                                     operated
operated by a   A                A               A             libraries and
governmental                                                   museums are not
entity                                                         regulated by
                                                               this title
Microwave,                                                     Facilities
radio and                                                      regulated by the
television      C                C               C             PUC are not
transmission                                                   regulated by
and/or relay                                                   this title
structures
Private
enterprise
performing      C                C               C              
governmental
functions
Railway
stations,       C                C               C              
multi-modal
transit centers
Renewable
energy
generation      —              —             —            
facilities,
commercial
scale
Renewable
energy                                                         See §
generation      A                A               A             25.08.016 for
facilities,                                                    development
private non-                                                   standards
commercial
Recreational
uses incidental
to single-
family
residential
uses and for    P                P               P              
the exclusive
use of the
residents
residing on the
same parcel
Accessory/      Regulated as a use per this table. Administrative use permit or
incidental uses conditional use permit required if shown in the table above.
*Similar uses   See “Interpretations” in §
                25.01.009
 
   (G)   Residential district development standards. The following table
establishes the basic development standards for the rural residential and urban
residential zones. Development standards for some specific uses are provided in
Chapter 25.08 of this code. These standards apply to every lot and building
site in the RR, R-1, and RM zoning districts, except where modified by a
combining zone.
Table 25.03-E
Development Standards - Residential Zones
Development Standard Rural Residential  Single Family     Residential Multiple
                     (RR)               Residential (R-1) (RM)
Development  Rural Residential (RR)                                         Single Family Residential (R-1)                     Residential Multiple (RM)
Standard
Lot and Density Standards
Maximum      2 dwelling units per acre 1                                    Up to 20 units per acre if both public water and    8 - 20 dwelling units per acre if both public
density                                                                     sewer are available 1                               water and sewer are available 1
                                                                            5,000 sq. ft., 1 acre, and 2.5 acres minimums for   No minimum lot size for multi-family 2
             0.5 to 1 acre                                                  single family homes, depending on availability of   Single family development intensity depends
Minimum lot  •   0.5 acre: public sewer + public water                 services:3                                          on availability of services: 3
size         •   1 acre: only one public water/sewer service provided) •   5,000 sq. ft.: public sewer + public water •   1 acre: septic tanks + public water
                                                                            •   1 acre: septic tanks + public water        •   2.5 acre: septic tanks + well water)
                                                                            •   2.5 acre: septic tanks + well water)
Minimum Lot Requirements
Interior lot
width/lot    Depth of lot cannot be more than three times the width of the lot (Planning Commission can waive for parcels larger than 5 acres in size)
depth
Maximum lot
coverage     40%                                                            40%                                                 60%
(percentage)
FAR 0.8      N/A                                                            0.8 FAR                                             0.8 FAR
Building Form and Location
                                                                                                                                20 feet, except the setback shall be 15 feet
Front        25                                                             20                                                  for parcels of less than 7,200 square feet if
setback                                                                                                                         administrative approval by the Planning
                                                                                                                                Director is granted
Side setback 15% of width (not less than 8 feet, but not more than 32 feet  10% of the lot width (not less than 6 feet, but not 10% of the lot width (not less than 6 feet,
(each side)  required)                                                      more than 20 feet required)                         but not more than 20 feet required)
Rear setback 20% of lot depth, not less than 20 feet, but not more than 35  20% of lot depth, not less than 20 feet, but not    20% of lot depth, not less than 20 feet, but
             feet required                                                  more than 35 feet required                          not more than 30 feet required
Distance
between main Subject to requirements of California Building Code
buildings
Maximum
building     35                                                             30                                                  35
height
(feet)
1.   ADUs and JADUs not counted toward density.
2.   30% mixed housing types required for RM lots with public infrastructure/utilities.
3.   Note: Site-specific soil characteristics may result in larger lot sizes.
 
(Ord. 1043 § 3 (part), 2022)
§ 25.03.006 COMMERCIAL DISTRICTS.
   (A)   The intent of the C-1 and C-2 districts is to provide for commercial
development that is compatible with other land uses and will conveniently and
effectively serve the needs of the people. The objective is to encourage
commercial services to meet the needs of rural citizens as well as the needs of
the weekend or recreational uses.
   (B)   Commercial Thoroughfare (C-1) District — Intent. The C-1 district
implements the commercial thoroughfare land use designation of the general
plan, which seeks to:
   “… provide commercial services for motorists near highway interchanges,
along thoroughfares, and near Federal, State, and regional parks, and other
tourist attractions to capture pass-through traffic, and to allow for
commercial uses that serve the agricultural and rural unincorporated community.
These uses could include small shopping centers, truck and automobile stations,
and tourist-serving commercial uses.”
   The purpose of this designation is to provide areas that function as
destinations for commercial activity serving the regional population. This
designation intends to accommodate the location of such commercial uses at key
intersections along Interstate 101 and other major State Routes. These uses
could include shopping centers, truck and automobile stations, tourist-serving
commercial uses, and hotels/motels.”
      (1)   The C-1 zoning district allows the establishment of businesses
offering accommodations, supplies or services especially to motorists, and for
certain uses such as commercial amusement and specialized automotive and
related sales and service establishments which serve persons coming to them
from large trading areas by automobile.
      (2)   These uses ordinarily do not seek locations in shopping centers,
and therefore, must be provided at independent locations. The C-1 district,
when appropriate, will be located along major thoroughfares. Special
development standards are incorporated in the district regulations in order to
provide for orderly development and to minimize traffic hazards.
      (3)   The following regulations apply to every lot and building site in a
C-1 district, except where modified by a combining zone.
   (C)   Neighborhood Commercial (C-2) District — Intent. The C-2 district
implements the commercial neighborhood land use designation of the general
plan, which seeks to:
   “… provide convenience goods within or near communities or other
concentrations of population. This designation intends to reduce unnecessary
vehicular trips to commercial centers in the cities of Hollister and San Juan
Bautista and outlying cities in other counties, encouraging a focus on local
businesses, with a destination retailer or restaurant. This designation also
allows mixed-use developments that could include residential, retail, and
office uses.”
      (1)   The C-2 zoning district is specifically intended to establish and
provide centers for convenient shopping to residential neighborhoods.
      (2)   The following regulations apply to every lot and building site in a
C-2 district, except where modified by a combining zone.
   (D)   C-1 and C-2 permitted uses. The table below designates uses are
permitted, administratively permitted, conditionally permitted, or prohibited
in C-1 and C-2 districts.
Table 25.03-F
Land Use Regulations - Commercial Zones
“P”=    Permitted Use
“A”=    Administrative Use Permit Required
“C”=    Conditional Use Permit Required
“—” =    Use Not Allowed
All new structures require review, per Chapter 25.02 of this code
Land Use       Commercial   Neighborhood
Classification Thoroughfare Commercial   Additional Regulations
               (C-1)        (C-2)
Agricultural Uses
Commercial
agriculture as P            P             
defined in
Glossary
Future Farmers                           Must be conducted by occupants of premises.
of America/4-  —          P            Projects involving crowing fowl require
H projects                               crowing fowl affidavit
Hobby/personal —          P             
agriculture
Grazing        P            P             
Plant nursery, P            P             
wholesale only
Small
livestock      P            P            One adult animal per acre (see Chapter 25.08)
farming
Residential Uses
Single-family  —          C            One per lot or parcel
dwelling
Tiny homes     —          C            See §
                                         25.08.029 for tiny homes standards
Accessory      —          P            Per accessory dwelling unit regulations in §
dwelling unit                            25.08.002
Caretaker unit P            P             
Duplex or two-
family         —          C             
dwelling
Multiple-
family
dwellings,     —          C            Per general plan density
condominiums
and apartments
Transitional
and supportive —          P             
housing
 
Land Use       Commercial         Neighborhood     Additional Regulations
Classification Thoroughfare (C-1) Commercial (C-2)
Land Use             Commercial         Neighborhood     Additional Regulations
Classification       Thoroughfare (C-1) Commercial (C-2)
Commercial Uses
Alcohol sale for on-
site or off-site     P                  P                 
consumption
Automotive/vehicle
related uses (see    A                  —               
Glossary)
Automobile service
stations and car     C                  C                 
washes (full service
and self service)
Commercial
entertainment and    C                  —               
amusement
establishments
Custom clothing
retail and tailoring —                P                 
services
Drive-through        C                  —               
restaurants
Drugstore/pharmacy   —                A                 
Eating and drinking
establishments,      C                  —               
including nightclubs
Farm equipment sales
with accessory       A                  —               
repairs and services
Sale of fruit and
vegetable in a       A                  —               
roadside stand
Greenhouse, plant
nursery, including   A                  —               
sales of garden
hardware
Home improvement     C                  —               
stores
House trailer sales  A                  —               
and rentals
Mobile home parks    —                C                 
Motels and hotels    C                  —               
Outdoor display and
sale of merchandise, A                  A                 
permanent
Outdoor display and  Requires temporary
sale of merchandise, use permit                          
temporary
Outdoor storage of   —                —               
materials
Restaurant           P                  P                 
 
Land Use       Commercial         Neighborhood     Additional Regulations
Classification Thoroughfare (C-1) Commercial (C-2)
Land Use              Commercial         Neighborhood     Additional
Classification        Thoroughfare (C-1) Commercial (C-2) Regulations
Retail business
establishments, small P                  P                 
scale
Retail business
establishments, large C                  —               
scale
Secondhand sales
(auction shop,
merchandise
liquidator, surplus
or salvage outlet or  C                  —               
store, secondhand
store or close-out
store or other
business of a similar
type or nature)
Trailer rentals (U-   A                  —               
Haul type)
Truck stops/travel    C                  —               
plazas
Personal Service Uses
Bank                  P                  P                 
Personal services,
excluding massage     P                  P                 
parlors
Retail clothes
cleaning, dry
cleaning, or laundry, P                  P                 
including self-
service laundromat
Office, business or
professional          P                  P                 
(including medical/
dental)
Veterinary hospitals  C                  —               
and pet clinics
Undertaking
establishments,       C                  —               
funeral homes,
mortuaries
Other Uses
Assembly uses,
including places of
worship, private      —                C                 
clubs, fraternity/
sorority houses,
senior centers
Bus stops, park and
ride lots, transit    P                  P                 
stops
Day care, small       P                  P                 
family
Day care, large       A                  A                 
family
Day care center       C                  C                 
Educational                                               Public schools are
institution, private  —                C                not regulated by this
                                                          title
 
Land Use       Commercial         Neighborhood     Additional Regulations
Classification Thoroughfare (C-1) Commercial (C-2)
Land Use             Commercial         Neighborhood     Additional Regulations
Classification       Thoroughfare (C-1) Commercial (C-2)
Hospital             —                C                 
Library or museum or                                     Publicly operated
information center   —                C                libraries and museums
not operated by a                                        are not regulated by
governmental entity                                      this title
Microwave, radio and                                     Facilities regulated
television           C                  C                by the PUC are not
transmission and/or                                      regulated by this
relay structures                                         title
Outdoor recreation   C                  —               
and/or education
Private enterprise
performing           —                C                 
governmental
functions
                                                         Publicly operated
Privately operated   —                C                pools are not
swimming pool                                            regulated by this
                                                         title
Recreation trailer   C                  C                 
parks
                                                         Minor development plan
Recycling collection                                     review required. In C-
facilities           P                  P                1, limited to 200SF of
                                                         outside storage. No
                                                         outside storage in C-2
Recycling equipment
to briquette, shred,
transform or         C                  C                See Chapter 25.08
otherwise process
recyclable materials
Recycling processing —                —               
facilities
Unmanned aircraft
takeoff and landing  C                  —               
facilities
Railway stations,
multi-modal transit  C                  C                 
centers
Accessory/incidental Regulated as a use per this table. Administrative use
uses                 permit or conditional use permit required if shown in the
                     table above.
*Similar uses        See “Interpretations” in
                     Chapter 25.01
 
   (E)   Commercial district development standards. The table below establishes
the basic development standards for the C-1 and C-2 zones.
Table 25.03-G
Development Standards - Commercial Zones
 Commercial Thoroughfare (C-1) Neighborhood Commercial (C-2)
                        Commercial Thoroughfare    Neighborhood Commercial (C-
                         (C-1)                      2)
Density and Lot Requirements
Density (units/acre)     N/A                        20 dwelling units per acre
Minimum lot size (square 20,000                     20,000
feet)
Building Form and Location
Floor area ratio (FAR)   0.8                        0.8
                                                    35 feet or more as
Maximum height (feet)    35                         determined by the Planning
                                                    Commission as part of
                                                    development plan review
Maximum lot coverage     40%                        50%
                         10 feet or as determined   10 feet or as determined by
Front setback            by the Planning Commission the Planning Commission as
                         as part of development     part of development plan
                         plan review                review
                         0 unless required by
Side setback (each side) Planning Commission, then  Same as most restrictive
1, 2                     a minimum of 10 feet, or   adjacent zone
                         10 feet when adjacent to a
                         residential zone
                         0 unless required by the
                         Planning Commission, then  Same as most restrictive
Rear setback 1, 2        a minimum of 10 feet, or   adjacent zone
                         10 feet when adjacent to a
                         residential zone
1.   In C-1 zone - in state responsibility area, a vegetation clearance
easement may be required for defensible space for firefighting, see County Fire
Department.
2.   In C-1 zone - a commercial use abutting a residential use shall provide a
ten- foot screened and landscaped setback buffer. Walls shall be not less than
five feet nor more than eight feet in height.
 
(Ord. 1043 § 3 (part), 2022)
§ 25.03.007 INDUSTRIAL DISTRICTS.
   (A)   The BP, M-1, and M-2 districts are intended to provide specialized
areas where industrial uses can be located in a setting which will preserve and
enhance the existing environment and where such uses will be compatible with
other uses. These zoning categories implement the industrial light and
industrial heavy land use designations of the general plan.
   (B)   Business Park (BP) District — Intent. The business park district is
intended to provide specialized areas where industrial uses of high quality can
be located in a park-like setting which will preserve and enhance the existing
environment and will be compatible with multiple residential and institutional
uses.
   (C)   Light Industrial (M-1) District — Intent. The M-1 district is intended
to allow light industrial development near existing transportation systems
(e.g., highways, rail, air). This includes: warehouses, contractor yards,
nurseries, lumber yards, auto repair shops, light manufacturing and/or
assembly, and research and development operations that do not cause significant
environmental hazards or create major pollution.
   (D)   Heavy Industrial (M-2) District — Intent.
The M-2 district is intended to provide areas for heavy industrial activities
that are not suitable for urban areas because of their size, noise, dust,
traffic, or safety concerns. This could include large-scale manufacturing
operations, mining and aggregate production facilities, recycling transfer
centers, chemical and explosives manufacturing, or other similar uses.
   (E)   BP, M-1 and M-2 permitted uses. The table below designates uses are
permitted, administratively permitted, conditionally permitted, or prohibited
in BP, M-1 and M-2 districts. The regulations in this section apply to every
lot and building site in the BP, M-1 and M-2 zoning districts, except where
modified by a combining zone.
Table 25.03-H
 
Land Use Regulations -Industrial Zones
“P” = Permitted Use
“A” = Administrative Use Permit Required
“C” = Conditional Use Permit Required
“—” = Not Allowed
All new structures require review, per
Chapter 25.02 of this code
                                                                           Business Light      Heavy      Additional
Land Use Classifications                                                   Park     Industrial Industrial Regulations
                                                                           (BP)     (M-1)      (M-2)      and Notes
Residential Uses
                                                                                                          As an
                                                                                                          accessory use
Caretaker units                                                            P        P          P          to a primary
                                                                                                          industrial
                                                                                                          use
Commercial Cannabis/Hemp Uses
                                                                                                          Subject to
                                                                                                          Title 7,
Cultivation of commercial cannabis or hemp (mixed light, including         C        C          C          Chapters 7.02
nurseries)                                                                                                and
                                                                                                          7.04 of this
                                                                                                          code
Cultivation of commercial cannabis or hemp (indoor, including nurseries)   C        C          C           
Distribution of commercial cannabis or hemp and/or cannabis or hemp        C        C          C           
products
Laboratory testing of commercial cannabis or hemp and/or cannabis or hemp  C        C          C           
products
Manufacturing of cannabis or hemp and/or cannabis or hemp products         C        C          C           
                                                                                                          Subject to
Microbusiness for commercial cannabis (excluding retail activity)          C        C          C          Title 7,
                                                                                                          Chapter 7.02
                                                                                                          of this code
Commercial and Office Uses
Building material sales, including the sale of rock, sand, gravel and the  —      P          P           
like
Executive and professional offices as a standalone use                     P        A          A           
                                                                                                          See §
Mini-storage                                                               —      A          —        25.08.015 for
                                                                                                          development
                                                                                                          standards
Offices associated with an industrial use                                  P        P          P           
Plant nurseries and greenhouses                                            —      C          C           
Restaurants, bars, coffee shops                                            A        —        —         
Retail lumberyard, including mill or cabinet work                          —      A          A           
                                                                                                          Allowed as an
Retail sale of products manufactured on-site, including food and beverage                                 accessory use
products (including on-site consumption)                                   —      C          C          to the
                                                                                                          manufacturing
                                                                                                          facility
Industrial Uses
Bus stops, park and ride lots, transit stops                               P        p          P           
Contractor’s equipment storage or plant, or rental of equipment commonly —      A          A           
used by contractors
Explosives handling, storage or manufacture                                —      —        C           
Fuel manufacturing, refining or storage                                    —      —        C          Liquid, gas
                                                                                                          or solid
Industrial activity occurring outdoors                                     —      —        C           
Industrial cleaning and laundry facilities                                 —      —        C           
Junkyard or wrecking yard                                                  —      —        C           
Nuclear generator                                                          —      —        C           
Outdoor activity                                                           —      —        C           
                                                                                                          See Standards
Outdoor storage, incidental to a primary use                               —      C          C          for Specific
                                                                                                          Uses
                                                                                                          Chapter 25.08
                                                                                                          See Standards
Outdoor storage as a primary use                                           —      —        C          for Specific
                                                                                                          Uses,
                                                                                                          Chapter 25.08
                                                                                                          Facilities
Public utility service yard for electrical receiving or transformer                                       regulated by
station                                                                    P        P          P          the PUC are
                                                                                                          not regulated
                                                                                                          by this title
Recycling                                                                  —      —        C           
                                                                                                          Requires
Recycling collection facilities                                            —      P          P          minor
                                                                                                          development
                                                                                                          plan review
Recycling equipment to briquette, shred, transform or otherwise process                      C          See §
recyclable materials                                                                                      25.08.014
                                                                                                          Must operate
                                                                                                          within an
                                                                                                          enclosed
Recycling processing facilities                                            —      —        C          building; no
                                                                                                          outdoor
                                                                                                          storage
                                                                                                          allowed
                                                                                                          See
                                                                                                          Chapter 25.08
Renewable energy generation facilities, private and non-commercial         —      A          A          for
                                                                                                          development
                                                                                                          standards
                                                                                                          See §
Renewable energy generation facilities, commercial                         —      C          C          25.08.016 for
                                                                                                          development
                                                                                                          standards
                                                                                                          Provided such
                                                                                                          use does not
                                                                                                          cause any
                                                                                                          danger or
                                                                                                          produce undue
                                                                                                          odor, smoke,
Research and development laboratories                                      A        A          —        noise,
                                                                                                          pollution of
                                                                                                          surface or
                                                                                                          underground
                                                                                                          water or
                                                                                                          other
                                                                                                          objectionable
                                                                                                          effects
Warehouses                                                                 A        A          P           
Logistics facility                                                         —      C          A           
Light industrial facilities (see glossary)                                 A        A          A           
Heavy industrial facilities (see glossary                                  —      —        A           
Railway stations, multi-modal transit centers                              C        C          C           
                                                                           Per the use table. Administrative use permit
Accessory/incidental uses                                                  or conditional use permit required if shown
                                                                           in the table above.
Wireless telecommunication facilities                                      See the Wireless Telecommunication
                                                                           regulations in Title 7 of the County Code
Similar uses                                                               See “Interpretations” in
                                                                           Chapter 25.01
 
   (F)   Industrial district development standards. The table below establishes
the basic development standards for the light and heavy industrial zones.
Development standards for specific uses are established in
Chapter 25.08 of this code.
Table 25.03-I
Development Standards - Industrial Zones
 
Development     Business Park  Light          Heavy Industrial Additional
Standard        (BP)           Industrial (M- (M-2)            Regulations and
                               1)                              Notes
Lot and Density Standards
Minimum Lot
Size (square
feet unless     No minimum     No minimum     No minimum        
otherwise
indicated)
Building Form and Location Standards
Maximum floor
area ratio      0.8            0.8            0.8               
(FAR)
Maximum Height  40             40             40                
(feet)
Maximum Lot     50%            50%            50%               
coverage
 
 
Development   Business Park  Light Industrial Heavy Industrial Additional
Standard      (BP)           (M-1)            (M-2)            Regulations and
                                                               Notes
Minimum Setbacks (feet)
                                                               Front setback
Front         25             25               25               shall be
                                                               landscaped
                                                               Shall also apply
Street side   25             25               25               to lots adjacent
                                                               to residential
                                                               zones
                                                               25-foot side
                                                               setback required
Interior Side 10 1           10 1             10 1             for uses
                                                               adjacent to
                                                               residential
                                                               zones
Rear          10 1           10 1             10 1              
1.   10 feet landscape strip or less as determined by Planning Commission as
part of development plan review, and as determined by the Fire Department for
emergency access.
 
   (G)   Industrial district special regulations. In the BP, M-1, and M-
2 districts, any building type is permitted if permitted by other regulations.
(Ord. 1043 § 3 (part), 2022)
§ 25.03.008 PUBLIC/QUASI-PUBLIC DISTRICTS.
   (A)   The purpose of the public/quasi-public districts is to provide for
needed community and infrastructure supporting services. This designation is
typically applied to lands owned by the County or other public agencies. These
zoning districts implement the public/quasi public land use designation of the
general plan.
   (B)   Public/Quasi-Public (PQP) District — Intent. The PQP district is
intended to provide for the public and quasi-public uses, including public
facilities and services. This designation applies to the following uses:
schools, landfills, recycling, resource recovery, government lands (non-
parkland), sewage treatment plants, fire stations, sheriff stations/
substations, jails, libraries, energy generation and distribution, water
distribution, and public meeting halls, and other similar uses related to the
operation of county government services.
   (C)   Resource Recovery Park (RRP) District — Intent.
      (1)   The RRP District is intended to provide specialized areas where
diverted material resources from local and regional waste streams are directed
to a controlled, central facility where recycling, co-locating reuse,
manufacturing, and both wholesale and retail businesses can develop and thrive.
The following regulations shall modify the regulations of the base zone with
which the RRP district is combined within San Benito County. Except as modified
herein, the base zone regulations apply.
      (2)   The purposes of the RRP district are as follows:
         (a)   To provide economic development opportunities through materials
management, thereby facilitating job creation in the green economy;
         (b)   To further the public health, safety and general welfare in a
time of increasing waste generation, emphasizing material diversion
requirements and promoting the growing demand for the recycling and reuse of
resources diverted from local and regional waste streams;
         (c)   To encourage innovations in the manufacturing of value-added
products that are created from materials diverted from landfills;
         (d)   To create greater opportunities for the reuse of discarded
materials to extend their useful life and conserve waste disposal space;
         (e)   To encourage energy-producing businesses that use recycled
materials, such as landfill gas, biomass, anaerobic digestion and renewable
energy sources;
         (f)   To centralize the county’s waste disposal, waste diversion,
waste materials reuse, waste materials recycling and waste materials
remanufacturing activities to reduce traffic and circulation effects and to
reduce greenhouse gas generation;
         (g)   To provide a campus setting where the type, design and layout of
development to the particular site and the particular demand for recycled
materials can be developed in a unified and complimentary manner while
preserving the property uses and values within adjacent areas; and
         (h)   To provide a modern and convenient household hazardous waste and
electronics recycling facility for county residents.
   (D)   PQP and RRP permitted uses. The following table designates uses are
permitted, administratively permitted, conditionally permitted, or prohibited
in RRP and PQP districts.
Table 25.03-J
Land Use Regulations - Public/Quasi-Public Zones
“P” =    Permitted Use
“A” =    Administrative Use Permit Required
“C” =    Conditional Use Permit Required
“—” =    Not Allowed
                  Resource Public/
Land Use          Recovery Quasi-  Additional Regulations
Classification    Park     Public
                  (RRP)    (PQP)
Agricultural Uses
Agriculture       A        —      
Grazing           A        —      
Residential Uses
Caretaker         P        P        
quarters
                                   Farmworker housing provided by an employer must comply with all provisions
Labor supply      A        —     of Cal. Health and Safety Code § 17008(a).
employee housing                   Farmworker housing provided by someone other than an agricultural employer
                                   must comply with all provisions of Cal. Health and Safety Code § 17008(b).
Permanent
employee housing,
not exceeding 12
dwelling units
(including mobile A        P        
homes and RVs, or
spaces for mobile
homes and RVs),
or 36 beds in
group quarters
Permanent
employee housing
exceeding 12      —      —      
dwelling units or
36 beds in group
quarters
Seasonal employee P        —     As defined by Cal. Health and Safety Code § 17010(b)
housing
Temporary         P        —     As defined by Cal. Health and Safety Code § 17010(a)
employee housing
Transitional and
supportive        —      P        
housing
Industrial Uses
Construction and
demolition        A        —      
materials sorting
and management
Energy and gas    C        —      
recovery
Recycling, buy
back, salvage,
repair, and       P        —      
restoration of
all household
goods, indoor
Recycling, buy
back, salvage,
repair, and
restoration of    A                
all household
goods, with
outdoor
operations
Wood and green    A        —      
waste grinding
Household
hazardous waste
collection,       P        —      
processing and
transportation,
indoors
Household
hazardous waste
collection,
processing and    A                
transportation,
with outdoor
operations
Renewable energy
generation
facilities,       A        A       See §
commercial and                     25.08.016 for development standards
private non-
commercial
Research and
development       A        —      
laboratories
RRP-supporting
operations
facilities such
as offices,       P        —      
equipment and
materials, etc.,
indoor
Outdoor equipment
or materials      A                
storage or
handling
Wholesale and
retail sales of   A        —      
RRP materials
Institutional/Administrative Uses
Conference        —      C        
centers
Educational
demonstrations of
use of compost in
gardens and       P        —      
landscaping and
use of recycled
building products
in construction
Education
facilities,       —      A       Public uses not regulated by this title
private
Facilities owned
and operated by   —      P       Public uses not regulated by this title
other government
agencies
Hospital          —      C        
Museums and       —      P        
libraries, public
Private
enterprise
performing        —      A        
governmental
functions
Public facilities
owned or operated P        P       Public uses not regulated by this title
by the County
Other Uses/Utilities
Aircraft landing  —      C        
field/helipad
Bus stops, park
and ride lots,    P        P        
transit stops
Cemetery
(includes         C        C        
columbarium)
Microwave, radio
and television
transmission and/ —      C        
or relay
structures
Radio frequency
emission
measuring         —      P        
facilities (if
privately
operated)
Railway stations,
multi-modal       C        C        
transit centers
Wireless
telecommunication See the wireless telecommunication regulations in Title 7 of the County Code.
facilities
Accessory uses    Per the use table. Administrative use permit or conditional use permit required if shown in
                  the table above.
Uses similar to
the above
determined by the P/A/C    P/A/C   Based on the Director’s determination
Director or the
Planning
Commission
 
   (E)   Public/quasi-public district development standards. The following
table establishes the basic development standards for the RRP and Public/Quasi-
Public zones.
Table 25.03-K
Development Standards - Public/Quasi-Public Zones
 
Development Standard        Resource Recovery Park  Public/Quasi-Public
                            (RRP)
Lot and Density Standards
Minimum lot size            1 acre                  Subject to design review
Minimum lot width (feet)    150                      
Minimum lot depth to width  150                      
(feet)
Minimum lot frontage (feet) 100                      
 
Development Standard        Resource Recovery Park  Public/Quasi-Public
                            (RRP)
Building Form and Location Standards
Maximum floor area ratio    1.0                     Subject to design review
(FAR)
Maximum height (feet)       40 1                     
Minimum Setbacks (feet)
Front                       22 2, 3                 Subject to design review
Street side                 22 2, 3                  
Interior side               0                        
Rear                        0                        
Minimum distance between    Subject to requirements of California Building
buildings and/or structures Code
1.   Accessory structures, such as barns, silos, grain elevators, oil
derricks, mechanical devices, radio, communication and antenna, and other
similar structures shall be allowed to exceed the height limitations in
accordance with
Chapter 25.02 of this code.
2.   Vegetated biofiltration treatment areas can be included within the
front and corner yard setbacks.
3.   Heating, ventilation, air conditioning, cooling, electrical, structural
equipment, water heating equipment and architectural projections may project
into front and corner yard setbacks up to (one) 1 foot.
 
   (F)   Special regulations for RRP. Any building type is permitted if
permitted by other regulations set forth in this title. Effort shall be made to
reflect the architecture of its surroundings.
(Ord. 1043 § 3 (part), 2022)
CHAPTER 25.04: COMBINING ZONES
Section
   
25.04.001   Purpose and application of combining zones
   
25.04.002   Combining zones established
   
25.04.003   Emergency Shelter (ES) Combining Zone
   
25.04.004   Airport Safety (AS) Combining Zone
   
25.04.005   Frazier Lake Airpark (FLA) Combining Zone
   
25.04.006   Hollister Municipal Airport Combining Zone
§ 25.04.001 PURPOSE AND APPLICATION OF COMBINING ZONES.
   (A)   The combining zones in this chapter provide specific regulations that
affect land whose characteristics require standards that are different from
those of the base zoning districts listed in
Chapter 25.03.
   (B)   Combining zones may:
      (1)   Supplement the standards of a base zoning district by leaving in
place the base and adding additional new standards; or
      (2)   Replace the standards of the base zoning district by specifying
different standards than provided in the base zone.
   (C)   Requests to apply or remove a combining designation shall be
accomplished pursuant to the rezoning procedures in §
25.01.011.
(Ord. 1043 § 3 (part), 2022)
 
§ 25.04.002 COMBINING ZONES ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   The following combining zones are established:
 
Designation Combining Zone Name
ES          Emergency Shelter Combining Zone
AS          Airport Safety Combining Zone
FLA         Frazier Lake Airpark Combining Zone
HMA         Hollister Municipal Airport Combining Zone
 
   (B)   Refer to the zoning map to determine where these combining zones
apply.
(Ord. 1043 § 3 (part), 2022)
§ 25.04.003 EMERGENCY SHELTER (ES) COMBINING ZONE.
   (A)   Intent. The purpose and intent of the Emergency Shelter (ES) Combining
Zone is to establish locations at which emergency shelters serving homeless and
other local populations in need of emergency housing are permitted.
   (B)   Areas designated Emergency Shelter. Areas designated with the ES
Combining Zone shall be shown on the zoning map.
   (C)   Permitted uses. In addition to uses permitted in the underlying zoning
district, the following are permitted in the ES Combining Zone:
      (1)   Emergency shelters as defined in Cal. Health and Safety Code §
50801(e) and Cal. Gov’t Code § 65582(d).
   (D)   Nondiscretionary permits for emergency shelters. Review by the County
of a proposal for an emergency shelter shall not be considered a discretionary
act within the meaning of the California Environmental Quality Act (Cal. Public
Resources Code, Division 13, commencing with § 21000).
   (E)   Site and development standards. All development standards of the
underlying zone shall apply, plus the following:
      (1)   Off-street parking shall be provided at a rate of one vehicle
parking space per employee (by shift) plus one vehicle parking space for every
ten beds. Off-street parking within 500 feet devoted to the shelter during its
operating hours by formal contractual agreement between the shelter operator
and the property owner may be approved by the Planning Department as satisfying
the off-street parking requirement. Parking available on-street along the
street frontage of the property on which the shelter is located may also be
counted toward satisfying the off-street parking requirement.
      (2)   The County shall not approve emergency shelters in hazardous areas
unless it is unavoidable or the facility is designed and constructed in a
manner that minimizes or eliminates potential impacts.
   (F)   Facility operation standards. The following standards apply to the
operation of emergency shelters:
      (1)   The shelter shall be operated by a responsible agency or
organization, with experience in managing or providing social services. The
shelter
shall provide at least one qualified on-site supervisory-level staff member
during hours of operation, and adequate management, support staff, and security
must be present during the hours of operation of the facility, including but
not limited to at least one employee or volunteer of the same sex as the
clients being served.
      (2)   A security plan shall be submitted to the County Sheriff’s
Department for approval and shall be approved before the facility begins
operation and annually thereafter.
      (3)   The maximum length of stay shall be no longer than that established
by the Cal. Health and Safety Code for emergency shelters.
(Ord. 1043 § 3 (part), 2022)
§ 25.04.004 AIRPORT SAFETY (AS) COMBINING ZONE.
   (A)   Intent. The intent of the airport safety district is to establish
special regulations and development policies in areas adjacent to those
airports without a county adopted Airport Land Use Compatibility Plan, for the
purpose of assuring land use compatibility and safety of persons and property.
   (B)   Areas subject the AS Combining Zone.
      (1)   The AS Combining Zone shall apply to all public and private airport
facilities licensed by the state’s Department of Transportation Division of
Aeronautics with a total of 20 or more operations per month (a takeoff and a
landing are each considered a separate operation) and five or more permanently
based aircraft and which do not have a county adopted Airport Land Use
Compatibility Plan.
      (2)   For regulations applicable to the Frazier Lake Airpark and the
Hollister Municipal Airport, see the sections specific to those facilities.
   (C)   Definitions. The following terms are used in this section. For
definitions, see the Glossary in
Chapter 25.09 of this code. For the purpose of this title, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      (1)   Approach Safety Zone.
      (2)   Clear Zone.
      (3)   Hazard to Air Navigation.
      (4)   Overflight Zone.
      (5)   Primary Surface.
      (6)   Runway.
      (7)   Runway Protection Zone.
      (8)   Utility Runway.
      (9)   Utility Runway Visual Approach Zone.
      (10)   Visual Runway.
   (D)   Density, coverage and land use limitations in safety areas. The
following standards apply to areas subject to this section.
 
Safety Area       Density             Coverage           Land Use
                                                         No residential. No
Runway Protection No people           No structures      petroleum or
Zone                                                     explosives. No above
                                                         grade power lines.
                                                         Low density
                                                         residential. No
                                                         multi-family. No
                                                         hotels/motels, bars,
                                                         schools, hospitals,
                                                         government services,
                                                         concert halls,
                                                         auditoriums,
Approach Safety   No more than 10     Maximum structural industries involved
Zone              people on an annual coverage must be   in flammable
                  average per acre    less than 25%      materials or
                                                         processes.
                                                         Commercial and
                                                         Industrial uses
                                                         generally acceptable
                                                         if density and lot
                                                         coverage
                                                         restrictions are
                                                         applied.
 
   (E)   Prohibited uses in AS Combining Zone. The following uses are
prohibited in the AS Combining Zone, even if permitted by the underlying zone:
      (1)   Any use which would direct a steady light or flashing light of red,
white, green or amber colors associated with airport operations toward an
aircraft engaged in an initial straight climb following takeoff or toward an
aircraft engaged in a straight final approach toward a landing at an airport
other than an FAA approved navigational signal light or visual approach slope
indicator.
      (2)   Any use which would cause sunlight to be reflected toward an
aircraft engaged in an initial straight climb following takeoff or toward an
aircraft engaged in a straight final approach toward a landing at an airport.
      (3)   Any use which would generate smoke or which would attract large
concentrations of birds or which may otherwise affect safe air navigation
within this area.
      (4)   Any use which would generate electrical interference that may be
detrimental to the operation of aircraft and/or aircraft instrumentation.
      (5)   Any use which would cause an object to extend above the utility
runway visual approach slope.
   (F)   Non-conforming uses.
      (1)   The regulations prescribed in this section shall not be construed
to require the removal, lowering or other change or alteration of any structure
or tree not conforming to the regulations as of the effective date of this
title, or otherwise interfere with the continuance of a non-conforming use.
Nothing contained herein shall require any change in the construction,
alteration or intended use of any structure, the construction or alteration of
which was begun prior to the effective date of this title and is diligently
prosecuted.
      (2)   Notwithstanding the preceding provision of this section, the owner
of any existing non-conforming structure or tree is hereby required to permit
the installation, operation and maintenance thereon of the markers and lights
as shall be deemed necessary by the County’s Planning Director to indicate to
the operators of aircraft in the vicinity of the airport the presence of the
airport obstruction. The markers and lights shall be installed, operated and
maintained at the expense of the owner of the affected airport facility.
   (G)   Variance from AS Combining Zone standards.
      (1)   Any person desiring to erect or increase the height of any
structure, or permit the growth of any tree, or use property, not in accordance
with the regulations prescribed in this section, may apply for a variance from
the regulations. The application for variance shall be accompanied by a
determination from the Federal Aviation Administration as to the effect of the
proposal on the operation of air navigation facilities and the safe, efficient
use of navigable airspace. The variances shall be allowed where it is duly
found that a literal application or enforcement of the regulations will result
in unnecessary hardship and that relief granted, will not be contrary to the
public interest, will not create a hazard to air navigation, will do
substantial justice and will be in accordance with the spirit of this section.
      (2)   Any permit or variance granted may, if the action is deemed
advisable to effectuate the purpose of this section and be reasonable in the
circumstances, be so conditional as to require the owner of the structure or
tree in question to install, operate and maintain, at the owner’s expense, the
markings and lights as may be necessary.
(Ord. 1043 § 3 (part), 2022)
§ 25.04.005 FRAZIER LAKE AIRPARK (FLA) COMBINING ZONE.
   (A)   Intent. The intent of the Frazier Lake Airpark (FLA) Combining Zone is
to establish additional regulations applicable in the vicinity of Frazier Lake
Airpark to protect people and property on the ground, minimize injury to
aircraft occupants and prevent creation of hazards to aircraft using the
airport.
   (B)   Areas subject the FLA Combining Zone. The FLA Combining District shall
be applied to every parcel within the Airport Influence Area, as defined in the
Frazier Lake Airpark Airport Land Use Compatibility Plan (ALUCP), adopted by
the San Benito County Airport Land Use Commission (ALUC).
   (C)   Definitions. The following terms are used in this section. For
definitions, see the Glossary in
Chapter 25.09 of this code. For the purpose of this title, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      (1)   Frazier Lake Airpark Combining District boundary.
      (2)   ALUC.
      (3)   ALUCP.
      (4)   FAR Part 77.
      (5)   Roof Elements.
   (D)   FLA Combining Zone permitted uses. FLA Combining District land use and
permit requirements that are supplemental to the base zoning district
requirements. Where the standards are in conflict, the more restrictive shall
prevail.
Table 25.04-A
FLA Combining District Permitted Uses
         Airport Safety Zones (1)
Land Use Runway      Inner       Turning     Outer       Side Safety Traffic
Note (2) Protectio n Safety Zone Safety Zone Safety Zone Zone (4)    Pattern
         Zone (3)    (4)         (5)         (4)                     Zone (6)
                  Airport Safety Zones (1)
Land Use          Runway     Inner    Turning  Outer       Side Safety Traffic
Note (2)          Protectio  Safety   Safety   Safety Zone Zone (4)    Pattern
                  n Zone (3) Zone (4) Zone (5) (4)                     Zone (6)
Auditoriums,
meeting halls,
religious         NP         NP       NP       NP          NP          P
assembly, outdoor
assembly
facilities
Small day care (6 NP         NP       NP       P           P           P
or fewer)
Large day care    NP         NP       NP       NP          NP          NP
Educational
institutions
operated by a     NP         NP       NP       NP          NP          P
non-profit or
government agency
Hospital, nursing NP         NP       NP       NP          NP          P
home
Residential       NP         NP       APR      APR         APR         P
Commercial uses   NP         P (4)    P (5)    P (6)       P (5)       P(7)
Industrial uses   NP         APR (4)  APR (5)  APR (6)     APR (5)     P (7)
with structures
Industrial uses
without           NP         APR      APR      APR         APR         P
structures
Above ground fuel
storage in        NP         NP       NP       NP          NP          APR
conjunction with
agriculture
Telecommunication NP         NP       NP       NP          NP          P
towers
Governmental
enterprises and/
or private
enterprise
performing        NP         P (4)    P (5)    P (6)       P (5)       P
governmental
functions
(federal, state,
and local)
Library, or
museum operated
by a non-profit   NP         P (4)    P (5)    P (6)       P (5)       P
or governmental
entity
Park, playground
or recreational   NP         P (4)    P (5)    P (6)       P (5)       P
community center
Private club,
fraternity house,
sorority house,   NP         P (4)    P (5)    P (6)       P (5)       P
union hall,
senior citizen
center
Scientific or
educational
research center,  NP         P (4)    P (5)    P (6)       P (5)       P
public utility
facility
P   Permitted use
APR   Administrative permit required
NP   Not permitted
(1)   Airport Safety Zones are specified in the ALUCP and shown on the County
GIS system.
(2)   The permit requirements in this table are supplemental to the
requirements in the base zoning district. All land uses listed and not
specifically listed in this table must comply with requirements of the base
zoning district and supplemental standards for building height, population
density and land use in this chapter.
(3)   Maximum number of persons per acre to be allowed from a single land use
or combination of land uses on a property shall be zero persons per acre but an
exception may be granted for agricultural activities, roads and transient
automobile parking.
(4)   Maximum number of persons per acre to be allowed from a single land use
or combination of land uses on a property shall be 20 persons per acre.
(5)   Maximum number of persons per acre to be allowed from a single land use
or combination of land uses on a property shall be 60 persons per acre.
(6)   Maximum number of persons per acre to be allowed from a single land use
or combination of land uses on a property shall be 85 persons per acre.
(7)   Where population is concentrated on a portion of a property or an
assembly use is proposed, the population density shall not exceed the threshold
for the maximum number of persons per single acre in this table.
 
   (E)   Referral to ALUC. All discretionary development permit applications
must also be submitted to the ALUC for determination that the proposed
development is consistent with the Frazier Lake ALUCP.
   (F)   Avigation easement required. All discretionary development permit
applications must include the requirement that an avigation easement be
recorded on the property’s deed by the land-owner for the benefit of the County
of San Benito per ALUCP, Appendix A, Exhibit 1.
   (G)   Supplemental information form required.
      (1)   A supplemental information form prepared by the applicant or the
County of San Benito shall be submitted with any discretionary development
permit application, building permit or change of use on property located in the
FLA Combining Zone, The Director shall have the authority to waive the
requirement where it can be determined with certainty that there is no conflict
with the standards listed in this section.
      (2)   The supplemental information form shall include the following
information:
         (a)   The site address and APN number(s).
         (b)   The property owner’s name and contact information. The project
applicant’s name and contact information if different from that of the property
owner.
         (c)   A detailed description of the proposed project.
         (d)   A map showing the location of the proposed project in relation
to the FLA Combining District. (Utilization of the San Benito County GIS system
is recommended for these maps.)
         (e)   A map drawn to scale, showing the location of the proposed
project in relation the Airport Safety Zones referenced in division (E) and
described more fully in the ALUCP and shown on the County GIS system.
         (f)   A map drawn to scale, showing the location of the proposed
project in relation the Frazier Lake Airpark Noise Contours Map, as shown in
the ALUCP and on the County GIS system.
         (g)   Include the maximum number of persons per acre that could result
from the proposed activity, as instructed on the supplemental information form.
A supplemental calculation of the proposed density per acre shall be required
for assembly uses or where population is concentrated on a portion of a
property or as determined by the Director.
         (h)   BUILDING HEIGHT is defined as the height of the land above mean
sea level (MSL) plus the maximum height of the building including associated
roof elements. All applications for new construction or that will increase the
height of an existing structure (including roof elements) shall include the
project’s maximum building height and must be less than associated FAA Part 77
Surfaces established in the ALUCP and shown in the County GIS system.
   (H)   Standards for the FLA Combining District.
      (1)   Air emissions. No approved land use shall generate or cause any
visible dust, gasses, heat, odor, or smoke to be emitted into the atmosphere
that would disturb aircraft, and the operation of motor vehicles on the site,
or would violate the requirements of the Monterey Bay Area Unified Air
Pollution Control District.
      (2)   Electronic interference. No structure or use on land or water shall
create electrical or electronic interference with navigational signals, or
radio or radar communications between the aircraft and a ground station.
      (3)   Glare. No glare-producing materials shall be used on the exterior
of any structure, including any metal building, which are hazardous to
aviation, or result in glare in the eyes of pilots using Frazier Lake Airpark.
      (4)   Ground vibration. No approved land use shall generate ground
vibration perceptible without instruments at any point along or outside of the
property line of the use, except for motor vehicle operations.
      (5)   Height. Structures including roof elements, that exceed the FAR
Part 77 elevation shall be prohibited.
      (6)   Lighting. There shall be no illumination that produces a flashing
or blinking effect that would interfere with aircraft or a pilot’s ability to
identify airport lights, nor any lighting projecting upward that would
interfere with aircraft or a pilot’s ability to identify airport lights.
      (7)   Maximum density per gross acre or single acre. A discretionary
permit or building permit shall not be issued for new construction or
alterations to a structure or a land use established in the FLA Combining
District where population density exceeds that maximum allowed per this
section.
      (8)   Noise. Office buildings, motels, hotels and schools shall be
designed to include noise attenuation measures to maintain an interior noise
level not to exceed 55 dB CNEL.
(Ord. 1043 § 3 (part), 2022)
§ 25.04.006 HOLLISTER MUNICIPAL AIRPORT COMBINING ZONE.
   (A)   Intent. The intent of the Hollister Municipal Airport (HMA) Combining
Zone is to establish additional regulations applicable in the vicinity of
Hollister Municipal Airport protect people and
property on the ground, minimize injury to aircraft occupants and prevent
creation of hazards to aircraft using the airport.
   (B)   Areas subject the HMA Combining Zone. The HMA Combining District shall
be applied to every parcel within the Airport Influence Area, as defined in the
Hollister Municipal Airport Land Use Compatibility Plan (ALUCP), adopted by the
San Benito County Airport Land Use Commission (ALUC).
   (C)   Definitions. The following terms are used in this section. For
definitions, see the Glossary in Chapter 25.09 of this code. For the purpose of
this title, the following definitions shall apply unless the context clearly
indicates or requires a different meaning.
      (1)   ALUC.
      (2)   ALUCP.
      (3)   FAR Part 77.
      (4)   Roof Elements.
   (D)   HMA Combining Zone permitted uses. HMA Combining District land use and
permit requirements that are supplemental to the base zoning district
requirements. Where the standards are in conflict, the more restrictive shall
prevail.
Table 25.04-B
HMA Combining District Permitted Uses
          Runway     Inner      Inner        Outer                 Traffic
Land Use  Protection Approach/  Turning Zone Approach/  Side Line  Pattern Zone
(1)       Zone 1 (2) Departure  3 (3)        Departure  Zone 5 (4) 6 (5)
                     Zone 1 (3)              Zone 4 (4)
                             Inner     Inner   Outer
                  Runway     Approach/ Turning Approach/  Side Line  Traffic
Land Use (1)      Protection Departure Zone 3  Departure  Zone 5 (4) Pattern
                  Zone 1 (2) Zone 1    (3)     Zone 4 (4)            Zone 6 (5)
                             (3)
Public-Semipublic Uses
Assembly uses:                                                   
(6)
   Auditorium  NP         NP        CUP     CUP        CUP        CUP
   Meeting hallNP         NP        CUP     CUP        CUP        CUP
   Religious   NP         NP        CUP     CUP        CUP        CUP
assembly
   Stadium     NP         NP        CUP     CUP        CUP        CUP
   Theater     NP         NP        CUP     CUP        CUP        CUP
Day care: (6)                                                    
   Small day caNP         NP        NP      NP         CUP        P
   Large day caNP         NP        NP      NP         CUP        APR
Schools (with the
exception of      NP         NP        NP      NP         NP         CUP avoid
aviation-related
schools)
Hospital, nursing NP         NP        NP      NP         NP         NP
home
Residential Land Uses
Residential       NP         NP        NP      NP         NP         P
Caretaker         NP         CUP       CUP     P          P          P
Commercial Uses
Auto parking      APR        APR       APR     APR        APR        P
Office building:                                                 
   One story   NP         P         P       P          P          P
   Two story   NP         NP        P       CUP        P          P
   Three story NP         NP        APR     CUP        APR        APR
Restaurant:                                                      
   Deli        NP         APR       APR     APR        APR        P
   Restaurant  NP         APR       APR     APR        APR        P
   Drive-througNP         NP        CUP     CUP        CUP        P
                                                                
Shopping center   NP         NP        CUP     CUP        APR        APR
Other commercial  NP         P(3)      P(4)    P(4)       P(5)       P(5)
uses
Industrial Uses
Agriculture       P          P         P       P          P          P
Auto parking      APR        APR       APR     APR        APR        APR
Other industrial
uses with         NP         P(2)      P(3)    P(3)       P(4)       P(5)
structures
Fuel storage      NP         NP        NP      CUP        CUP        CUP
Hazardous uses    NP         NP        NP      CUP        CUP        CUP
No structure      CUP        AP        AP      AP         AP         AP
Silos             NP         NP        NP      NP         NP         NP
Telecommunication NP         NP        NP      NP         NP         CUP
towers
Notes:
P -    Permitted use in zoning district. Prior to establishing the use, it is
the responsibility of the building owner, or lessee to secure any permits or
complete tenant improvements to assure that the use complies with applicable
federal, state and local requirements.
AP -    Administrative permit required. Permit is issued at Development
Services Department.
APR -   Administrative permit review required. Reviewed by Development Review
Committee for compliance with standards for use and decision to approve or deny
by Development Services Department without a public hearing.
CUP -   Conditional use permit.
NP -    Not permitted.
(1)   The permit requirements in this table are supplemental to the
requirements in the base zoning district. All land uses listed and not
specifically listed on this table must comply with requirements of the base
zoning district and supplemental standards for building height, population
density and land use in this chapter.
(2)   Maximum number of persons per acre to be allowed from a single land use
or combination of land uses on a property shall be zero persons per acre but an
exception may be granted for agricultural activities, roads and automobile
parking.
(3)   Maximum number of persons per acre to be allowed from a single land use
or combination of land uses on a property shall be 25 to 40 persons per acre.
(4)   Maximum number of persons per acre to be allowed from a single land use
or combination of land uses on a property shall be 60 to 80 persons per acre.
(5)   Maximum number of persons per acre to be allowed from a single land use
or combination of land uses on a property shall be 150 persons per acre.
(6)   Where population is concentrated on a portion of a property or an
assembly use is proposed, the population density shall not exceed the threshold
for the maximum number of persons per single acre in this table.
 
   (E)   HMA Combining Zone submittal requirements.
      (1)   A supplemental application on a form prepared by the City of
Hollister shall be submitted with any application for a discretionary permit,
building permit or change of use on property located in the Airport Safety
Overlay Zone. The Director shall have the authority to waive the requirement
where it can be determined with certainty that there is no question that the
alterations to the property conflict with the standards listed below (e.g.,
wall sign, low intensity use). The supplemental application form shall be used
to verify that the proposed building permit or change of use on the property
complies the following standards to protect persons, property and aircraft in
the Airport Safety Overlay Zone:
      (2) Application submittal requirements.
         (a) Type of land use.
         (b)   List the type of airport safety zone(s) that overlies the
property (Zone 1—Runway Protection; Zone 2—Inner Approach/Departure; Zone
3—Inner Turning Zone; Zone 4—Outer Approach/Departure; Zone 5—Sideline; Zone
6—Traffic Pattern) from the City of Hollister Geographic Information System
Airport Overlay Zone Map. If multiple airport safety zones overlay the
property, the safety zones shall be plotted to scale on the site plan.
         (c)   The maximum number of persons per acre that could result from
the activity proposed on calculated on a form prepared by the City of
Hollister. The City of Hollister will prepare forms that use the most current
edition of the Caltrans, California Airport Land Use Planning Handbook. A
supplemental calculation of the density per proposed density per acre shall be
required for assembly uses or where population is concentrated on a portion of
property or as determined by the Director.
         (d)   Building height. All applications for new construction or that
will increase the height of a structure shall include the FAR Part 77 elevation
for the subject property based on the FAR Part 77 Surfaces established in the
most recently adopted Comprehensive Land Use Plan for the Hollister Municipal
Airport, the elevation of the ground and the building height of the proposed
structure.
   (F)   Standards for the HMA Combining Zone.
      (1)   Air emissions. No approved land use shall generate or cause any
visible dust, gasses, heat, odor, or smoke to be emitted into the atmosphere
that would disturb aircraft, and the operation of motor vehicles on the site,
or would violate the requirements of the Monterey Bay Area Unified Air
Pollution Control District.
      (2)   Electronic interference. No structure or use on land or water shall
create electrical or electronic interference with navigational signals, or
radio or radar communications between the aircraft and a ground station.
      (3)   Glare. No glare-producing materials shall be used on the exterior
of any structure, including any metal building, which are hazardous to
aviation, or result in glare in the eyes of pilots using the Hollister
Municipal Airport.
      (4)   Ground vibration. No approved land use shall generate ground
vibration perceptible without instruments at any point along or outside of the
property line of the use, except for motor vehicle operations.
      (5)   Height. Structures that exceed the FAR elevation shall be
prohibited.
      (6)   Lighting. There shall be no illumination that produces a flashing
or blinking effect that would interfere with aircraft or a pilot’s ability to
identify airport lights, nor any lighting projecting upward that would
interfere with aircraft or a pilot’s ability to identify airport lights.
      (7)   Maximum density per gross acre or single acre. A discretional
permit or building permit shall not be issued for new construction or
alterations to a building or a land use established in an airport safety
overlay zone where the population density exceeds that maximum allowed per the
standards in this section.
      (8)   Noise. Office buildings, motels, hotels and schools shall be
designed to include noise attenuation measures to maintain an interior noise
level not to exceed 55 dB CNEL.
   (G)   Findings for conditional use permits in the HMA Combining Zone.
      (1)   The development proposal incorporates risk reduction factors to
minimize harm to occupants of a building from an aircraft such as:
         (a)   Concrete walls.
         (b)   Limited numbers and size of windows.
         (c)   Upgraded roof strength.
         (d)   No skylights.
         (e)   Enhanced fire sprinkler system.
         (f)   Single story height or increased number of emergency exits.
      (2)   The population per acre or concentration of people on the property
does not exceed the thresholds for population density established in this
section.
      (3)   The development has been designed to orient buildings and open
areas in relation to surrounding land uses to provide a continuous open area.
(Ord. 1043 § 3 (part), 2022)
CHAPTER 25.05: PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENTS
Section
   
25.05.001   Planned unit development requirements
   
25.05.002   Definitions
   
25.05.003   Standards for PUD projects
   
25.05.004   Permitted uses
   
25.05.005   Design criteria
   
25.05.006   Legal requirements
   
25.05.007   Phased development
   
25.05.008   Procedure for approval
§ 25.05.001 PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Planned unit as a combining district. The PUD district shall act as a
combining district primarily for, but not limited to, use with the Single
Family Residential (R-1) or Residential Mixed (RM) District as the base zoning
district. The following regulations shall modify the regulations of the base
zone with which the PUD district is combined. Except as modified herein, the
base zone regulations apply.
   (B)   Purpose. The purposes of a PUD district are as follows:
      (1)   To further the public health, safety and general welfare in a time
of increasing urbanization and of growing demand for housing of a variety of
types and design;
      (2)   To encourage innovations in residential and mixed-use development
so that the growing demands for housing may be met by a greater variety in
type, design and layout of dwellings and by the more efficient use of open
space ancillary to the dwellings;
      (3)   To create greater opportunities for better housing, more housing
options, increased diversity of housing, commercial activities and recreation;
      (4)   To encourage more efficient use of land, public services and to
safeguard open space;
      (5)   To provide an alternative procedure which can relate the type,
design and layout of residential and mixed-use development to the particular
site and the particular demand for housing at the time of development in a
manner consistent with the preservation of the property values within
established residential areas; and
      (6)   To provide an alternative procedure under which a developer of real
property may elect to proceed to develop his or her property by transfer of
permitted dwelling units to contiguous or noncontiguous locations which are
appropriate to carry out the purposes of this section.
   (C)   Planned developments shown on zoning map. A PUD District Zone shall be
noted on the County’s zoning map.
(Ord. 1043 § 3 (part), 2022)
§ 25.05.002 DEFINITIONS.
   The following terms are used in this section. For definitions, see the
Glossary in
Chapter 25.09 of this title.
   (A)   Approved Entity.
   (B)   Common Improvements.
   (C)   Common Open Space.
   (D)   Homeowner Association.
   (E)   Live Work Development.
   (F)   Mixed Use Development.
   (G)   Owner.
   (H)   Planned Unit Development.
   (I)   Residential Area to be Developed.
(Ord. 1043 § 3 (part), 2022)
§ 25.05.003 STANDARDS FOR PUD PROJECTS.
   (A)   The minimum size for the proposed PUD project shall be one acre in
size or two dwelling units, unless approved by the Board of Supervisors.
   (B)   Standards for lot size, lot coverage, setbacks, access, streets,
parking spaces, open space and building ratios shall be determined pursuant to
resolution of the County Planning Commission.
   (C)   Where public sewer and public water supplies are available, mixed
residential development types shall be provided with an average parcel size and
a density consistent with the general plan.
   (D)   A recreational amenity shall be provided in a PUD consistent with the
natural and cultural resources element of the general plan, which requires a
ratio of five acres of parkland per 1,000 persons. The Planning Commission may
allow the applicant to substitute the recreational amenity with contribution to
a regional park account under the supervision of the Parks and Recreation
Commission. The funding shall be consistent with §
23.15.008(D)(2).
(Ord. 1043 § 3 (part), 2022)
§ 25.05.004 PERMITTED USES.
   The following uses may be permitted in an area containing a PUD combining
district designation:
   (A)   Any use permitted in the underlying zone classification.
   (B)   Two-family dwellings, single-family dwellings.
   (C)   Multiple- (three or more) family dwellings, recreation uses.
   (D)   Buildings and accessory uses to those listed in this section.
   (E)   Mix of neighborhood commercial uses with residential uses.
   (F)   Live-work.
(Ord. 1043 § 3 (part), 2022)
§ 25.05.005 DESIGN CRITERIA.
   Design criteria for the PUD district shall be as follows:
   (A)   Building. Building design should reflect the following factors:
      (1)   Harmonious variations in materials, textures and colors shall
complement and supplement the natural beauty and pleasant environment of the
site and the individual unit.
      (2)   Each building site should have ready access to common areas and
facilities.
   (B)   Street design. Street design should reflect the following factors:
      (1)   Dwelling areas shall only have limited access to major traffic
arteries.
      (2)   Discourage use of cul-de-sacs; Demonstrate multi-modal connectivity
and provide interconnectedness that enhances the neighborhood character.
      (3)   Minimizes visual impacts in hillside areas.
      (4)   Rights of way shall be no less than 56 feet with road widths of 36
feet from curb to curb unless narrower widths are allowed for street type or
district in which the planned unit development is combined.
      (5)   Build complete streets with sidewalks, street trees, pedestrian and
bicycle access and facilities.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/fb9621aeb40cfcace25e7d8581ab7f5ecac73a18/
IMAGES/0-0-0-6526.png]
 
A typical “complete street” that provides for vehicles, pedestrians, and
cyclists.
   (C)   Parking. Parking shall reflect the following factors.
      (1)   Occupant and guest car parking should be located so home sites are
conveniently served.
      (2)   Parking areas should be designed so that on the average not more
than five spaces shall adjoin each other without intervening landscaped areas,
as shown below.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/fb9621aeb40cfcace25e7d8581ab7f5ecac73a18/
IMAGES/0-0-0-6528.png]
 
   (D)   Walks. Walks should be designed so as to provide convenient access to
recreation, service, parking and other common areas.
   (E)   Setbacks. Front, side and rear setback requirements for structures
shall be those of the district with which the PUD is combined.
   (F)   Open space areas. Open space areas should be situated in such a manner
as to avoid the crowding together of building uses and parking areas.
(Ord. 1043 § 3 (part), 2022)
§ 25.05.006 LEGAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   A PUD is not required to have areas of common ownership.
   (B)   In a planned unit development that does contain areas of common
ownership, the subdivision plat, dedication, covenants and other recorded legal
agreements must do all of the following:
      (1)   Legally create an automatic membership in a non-profit homeowner’s
association or another approved entity for the purpose of maintaining common
improvements for which title is held by the homeowner’s association or approved
entity which is legally obligated to provide designated services to the owners
of the lots created by the PUD.
      (2)   Place title to the common improvement areas in the homeowner’s
association or other approved entity, which gives each owner of the lots
created by the PUD the right to use and enjoyment of the common improvements.
      (3)   Appropriately and permanently govern the use of common open space
and improvements.
      (4)   Give each owner of the lots created by the PUD the right to use and
enjoyment of the common improvements subject to division (F) of this section.
      (5)   Give the homeowner’s association or other approved entity
responsibility for operation and maintenance of the common property.
      (6)   Place association charges on each lot created by the PUD so that
sufficient funds are assured for maintenance and operation of common
improvements and which charges shall be a lien on the property and provide
adequate safeguards for the owners of lots created by the PUD against
undesirable high charges. Where title to common open space is held by an
approved entity other than the homeowner’s association, each owner of lots
created by the PUD may elect to use and enjoy such common property subject to
the charges levied by the approved entity responsible for the ownership,
maintenance and operation of the common property.
      (7)   Where any of the foregoing are not applicable, the developer may
substitute alternative proposals. Property not contiguous to property where the
residential component is located may be allowed to be described as a separate
parcel for purposes of sale, lease or financing but the owner shall grant and
cause to be recorded a permanent open space easement in favor of the County
regarding such separate parcel. Under this circumstance, the recorded map shall
include a statement that the density from a non- contiguous parcel was used and
describe its location. The permanent open space easement on the non- contiguous
parcel shall state that the subject parcel shall be restricted from further
subdivision and shall state any other restriction imposed as a condition of
project approval. All legal documents required under this section must be
approved as to legal form by the County Counsel. All deed restrictions and
association rules and regulations shall be enforceable by the County as well as
by the homeowner’s association or other approved entity.
      (8)   The owner of open space may enter into various agreements or leases
related to the open space in furtherance of the objectives of the PUD as
specified in this title.
(Ord. 1043 § 3 (part), 2022)
§ 25.05.007 PHASED DEVELOPMENT.
   (A)   If the sequence of the construction of various portions of the
development is to occur in stages, then the open spaces and the recreational
facilities proposed for the entire development shall be developed in proportion
to the number of dwelling units constructed.
   (B)   The open space that is created by a PUD zone change and a recorded map
may be subdivided in order to encourage the designation of more open space or
to facilitate the utilization of the open space.
   (C)   The open space of a PUD shall not be subdivided to create residential
lots.
   (D)   At no time during the construction of the PUD project shall the number
of constructed dwelling units per acres of developed land exceed the overall
density per acre established in the PUD.
(Ord. 1043 § 3 (part), 2022)
§ 25.05.008 PROCEDURE FOR APPROVAL.
   (A)   A PUD shall be adopted by ordinance by the Board of Supervisors.
   (B)   The procedure for obtaining approval of a PUD shall be in part
governed by the provisions for zone changes.
   (C)   In addition to the procedures set forth relating to the zone changes,
the applicant shall furnish at the time of submitting the zone change petition,
the following information:
      (1)   The types of residences and commercial development to be
constructed;
      (2)   Proposed phasing of construction is applicable;
      (3)   Location and proposed uses of open space;
      (4)   Legal requirements and documents required by §
25.05.006;
      (5)   Location and layout of parking areas;
      (6)   Location of all existing vegetation and geological features to be
retained; and
      (7)   Confirmation of the intended base zoning district.
   (D)   In granting or denying the PUD request, the Board of Supervisors shall
make the required findings on the following:
      (1)   The proposed PUD is consistent with the general plan, including the
density and intensity limitations that apply;
      (2)   The subject site is physically suitable for the type and intensity
of the land use being proposed;
      (3)   Adequate transportation facilities and public services exist or
will be provided in accord with the conditions of development plan approval, to
serve the proposed development; and the approval of the proposed development
will not result in a reduction of traffic levels of service or public services
so as to be a detriment to public health, safety, or welfare;
      (4)   The proposed PUD will not have a substantial adverse effect on
surrounding land uses and will be compatible with the existing and planned land
use character of the surrounding area;
      (5)   The proposed PUD is demonstratively superior to the development
that could occur under the standards applicable to the underlying base zone,
and will achieve superior community design, environmental preservation and/or
substantial public benefit.
   (E)   In approving a PUD, the Board of Supervisors may impose reasonable
conditions deemed necessary to:
      (1)   Ensure that the proposal conforms in all significant respects with
the general plan and with any other applicable plans or policies that the
County has adopted;
      (2)   Achieve the general purposes of this title or the specific purpose
of the zone in which the project is located;
      (3)   Achieve the findings listed above; or
      (4)   Mitigate any potentially significant impacts identified as a result
of review conducted in compliance with the requirements of the California
Environmental Quality Act.
   (F)   The applicant shall submit written verification that all conditions
are accepted within 15 days of the approval of the planned unit development.
Failure to accept the conditions shall void the approval of the planned unit
development.
   (G)   In the event that approval is granted, the Board of Supervisors shall
specify the drawings, specifications and form of performance bond that shall
accompany the approval.
   (H)   If the tentative map for the planned unit development has expired and
cannot be renewed, the PUD combining district shall be deemed expired no longer
in effect and revert to only the base zoning district for the area shall be
applicable.
(Ord. 1043 § 3 (part), 2022)
CHAPTER 25.06: SPECIFIC PLANS
Section
   
25.06.001   Specific plan requirements
   
25.06.002   Adopted specific plans
§ 25.06.001 SPECIFIC PLAN REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Purpose.
      (1)   Specific plans implement the San Benito County General Plan by
providing detailed land use regulations, development standards, infrastructure
plans, financing plans, and other items as required or permitted by Cal. Gov’t
Code §§ 65450 through 65457.
      (2)   A specific plan is designed to provide for flexible and innovative
use of land regulations to promote development and provide a variety of
commercial, housing and other development types, and effective and safe methods
of pedestrian and vehicular circulation.
      (3)   A specific plan provides for the adoption of project-specific
standards which better implement the general plan than standard zoning district
standards.
   (B)   Procedures for approval of specific plans. Procedures for the
initiation and approval or amendment of specific plans are provided in Title 19
of the County Code.
   (C)   Applicability. The specific plan zone will apply to all properties
lying within the bounds of a specific plan that has been adopted by resolution
or ordinance of the Board of Supervisors. Once adopted, a specific plan shall
govern all use and development of properties within the bounds of that specific
plan. The following provisions shall apply for all specific plans in San Benito
County.
      (1)   Where a specific plan is silent regarding development standards,
the provisions of this title shall govern. The Director shall have the
authority to determine which provisions of this title apply where a specific
plan is silent.
      (2)   When a use is not specifically listed as permitted in the specific
plan, the Director shall assign the land use or activity to a classification
that is substantially similar in character. Land uses not listed in the
specific plan as permitted or not found to be substantially like a permitted
use are prohibited.
      (3)   No discretionary entitlement applications or other permits may be
approved, adopted, or amended within an area covered by a specific plan, unless
found to be consistent with the adopted specific plan.
(Ord. 1043 § 3 (part), 2022)
§ 25.06.002 ADOPTED SPECIFIC PLANS.
   The following is a list of the adopted specific plans. Each specific plan
should be consulted for detailed information on land uses, development
regulations, etc.
   (A)   Santana Ranch Specific Plan.
   (B)   Fairview Corners Specific Plan.
   (C)   San Juan Oaks Specific Plan.
(Ord. 1043 § 3 (part), 2022)
CHAPTER 25.07: GENERAL DEVELOPMENT AND DESIGN STANDARDS
Section
   
25.07.001   Introduction
   
25.07.002   Residential architectural and design standards
   
25.07.003   Non-residential architectural and design standards
   
25.07.004   General rules of measurement
   
25.07.005   Encroachments into required setbacks
   
25.07.006   General standards for accessory structures
   
25.07.007   Development standards for accessory structures in residential zones
   
25.07.008   Development standards for accessory buildings in agricultural zones
   
25.07.009   Height exceptions
   
25.07.010   Parking
   
25.07.011   Landscaping
   
25.07.012   Outdoor lighting
   
25.07.013   Fences, walls, and screening
   
25.07.014   Refuse and recycling areas
   
25.07.015   Outdoor storage and display
   
25.07.016   Signs
   
25.07.017   Hillside/ridgeline
   
25.07.018   Tree protection
§ 25.07.001 INTRODUCTION.
   This chapter provides standards to ensure that development is safe and
functional, as well as visually consistent with other development within San
Benito County.
(Ord. 1043 § 3 (part), 2022)
§ 25.07.002 RESIDENTIAL ARCHITECTURAL AND DESIGN STANDARDS.
   (A)   Purpose. Site design and architectural standards are established
consistent with general plan policy to promote quality design of new
residential structures and additions. San Benito County recognizes that quality
design promotes longer life of structures, improves the appearance and
maintenance of neighborhoods, and increases value in the housing stock
countywide.
   (B)   Applicability. The site design and architectural standards set forth
in this chapter shall apply to all new residential structures, additions to
residential structures, and accessory structures (including garages) which
require development review per this code in the following zones: R-1, PUD, RM,
and C-2.
   (C)   Architectural styles.
      (1)   ARCHITECTURAL STYLE as used in this section refers to a set of
features that make a building or other structure notable and historically
identifiable. ARCHITECTURAL STYLE may include such elements as form, method of
construction, building materials, and regional character.
      (2)   All references to “architectural style” refer to widely accepted
definitions used in the architectural profession. Where there is disagreement
about the particulars of a given style, the Director shall make the final
determination.
   (D)   Standards for all residential zones.
      (1)   Architecture.
         (a)   For any new structure or addition, all façades visible from a
public right-of-way shall incorporate features that eliminate blank,
unarticulated walls; add visual interest; avoid clutter; and display a
distinctive architectural style. Varied modulation for exterior façade surfaces
is encouraged.
         (b)   Additions to residential structures and new accessory structures
shall be designed and constructed to match the architectural style and building
form of the structure to which they are added, including similar or
complementary bulk, color, roof design, and other key architectural features.
It is permitted for new structures or additions to be of a higher quality of
design and/or materials compared to existing structures.
         (c)   Rooflines and roofing materials shall be compatible with the
architectural style of the residential structure. Varying, uncoordinated
rooflines and roofing materials shall be avoided.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/fb9621aeb40cfcace25e7d8581ab7f5ecac73a18/
IMAGES/0-0-0-6544.png]
 
Varying rooflines consistent with the architectural style are required.
         (d)   Window and door design and placement shall be consistent with
the overall architectural style of the structure and consistent with all
windows/doors visible from the public right-of-way.
         (e)   Materials and finishes shall be of a consistent theme, shall
match the architectural style of the residential structure, and shall be
consistently applied to all façades.
         (f)   Roof-mounted mechanical equipment, where permitted, shall be
screened from view from public rights of-way and adjacent properties using
materials that are architecturally compatible with the structure they serve.
         (g)   Accessory structures and additions to residential structures
shall be designed and constructed to match the architectural style and building
form of the structure or structures to which they are added.
      (2)   Equipment screening.
         (a)   Mechanical equipment on the ground shall be screened from view
from adjacent properties and the public right-of-way with an enclosure designed
as part of the building, a separate enclosure compatible with the building, or
by landscaping.
         (b)   Water heaters, electrical boxes, gas meters, landscape
irrigation equipment, and similar utility boxes shall be painted to match the
structure or be appropriately screened from view or shall be integrated into
the floor plan of the structure.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/fb9621aeb40cfcace25e7d8581ab7f5ecac73a18/
IMAGES/0-0-0-6546.png]
 
Screening of equipment (in this case, gas meters) is required.
         (c)   Where feasible, appurtenant equipment, plumbing, and related
solar energy fixtures shall be installed in the attic, or if infeasible, flush
mounted or ground mounted. Appurtenant equipment, plumbing, and related solar
energy fixtures shall comply with the setback requirements of this code and
shall be screened from public view.
      (3)   Landscaping. Landscaping shall be provided consistent with the
requirements of the landscaping standards in §
25.07.011.
      (4)   Scale and massing. A combination of second- and upper-story
balconies, decks, window fenestrations, and similar features shall be used on
front and street side façades to provide articulation and further reduce
massing effects and shall also be compatible with the overall architectural and
mass/scale balance of the original structure, as well as the character of mass/
scale in the immediate neighborhood.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/fb9621aeb40cfcace25e7d8581ab7f5ecac73a18/
IMAGES/0-0-0-6548.png]
 
Example of the use of a variety of architectural features to reduce the “mass”
of a single family home.
      (5)   Site design and structure orientation.
         (a)   Front entries shall be clearly identifiable and generally
oriented toward the street.
         (b)   Driveways shall be placed in a manner that avoids conflict with
pedestrian access from the sidewalk.
   (E)   Standards for single-family and two-family (duplex) structures.
      (1)   Architecture.
         (a)   Design of structures shall be consistent with local and regional
architectural styles.
         (b)   Exterior materials and finishes shall be appropriate to the
architectural style of the structure.
         (c)   The overall style of single-family and two-family structures
shall be consistent on all sides of the building as well as among all portions
of the roof. Particular attention should be taken that building elevations and
roof elements visible from streets and other public or quasi-public spaces are
stylistically consistent.
      (2)   Scale and mass.
         (a)   The bulk and mass of new single-family residential structures or
additions shall be compatible to the scale of existing structures in the
immediate neighborhood.
         (b)   Garages shall be designed or located in a manner that minimizes
the prominence of the garage within the front façade.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/fb9621aeb40cfcace25e7d8581ab7f5ecac73a18/
IMAGES/0-0-0-6550.png]
 
Example of a garage recessed from the front of the home.
   (F)   Standards for multi-family structures.
      (1)   Architecture.
         (a)   Design of structures shall be consistent with local and regional
architectural styles.
         (b)   The overall style of multi-family structures shall be consistent
on all sides of the building as well as among all portions of the roof.
Particular attention shall be taken that building elevations and roof elements
visible from streets and other public or quasi-public spaces are stylistically
consistent.
         (c)   Balconies, where provided, shall utilize railing or similar
materials that are compatible with the overall architectural style of the
development.
      (2)   Service facilities and equipment screening.
         (a)   Architectural screening of trash and storage enclosures shall be
constructed of materials and finishes compatible with the adjacent building and
shall be designed and placed to complement the style of development.
         (b)   Accessory structures such as community rooms, pool houses,
gazebos, maintenance equipment sheds shall include architectural design that
complements primary structures. See development standards for accessory
structures.
         (c)   Storage areas shall be completely screened from ground level
view using appropriate materials and shall be designed for maximum security.
         (d)   Storage areas shall be accessible to residents at all times.
Storage areas within multi-family residential developments shall be
conveniently located to the dwellings that they are intended to serve.
         (e)   Recyclable materials and green waste storage areas shall be
conveniently located adjacent to solid waste disposal areas, or near one
another, or combined. They may only be located inside a specially designated
structure, on the outside of a structure in an approved fence or wall
enclosure, a designated interior court or yard area with appropriate access, or
in rear or interior side yards. Exterior storage areas shall not be located in
a required front yard, street side yard, parking space, landscaped area, or
open space areas.
         (f)   Driveways or aisles shall provide unobstructed access for
collection vehicles and personnel with at least the minimum clearance required
by the collection methods and vehicles utilized by the designated collector.
      (3)   Circulation and access.
         (a)   Common parking areas shall be located on the site to minimize
their visibility from public rights-of-way and to be easily accessible to all
residents of the development. See parking design standards in §
25.07.010.
         (b)   Interior pedestrian paths shall be provided to individual units
and to link units to common open space areas and parking areas.
         (c)   Pedestrian and vehicular entrances shall be clearly identified
and easily accessible to minimize pedestrian/vehicle conflict.
         (d)   The parking area shall be designed in a manner which links it to
the building and street sidewalk system, as an extension of the pedestrian
environment. This can be accomplished by using design features such as walkways
with enhanced paving, trellis structures for shade and/or landscaping
treatment.
         (e)   Carports shall be architecturally consistent with the style of
the residence.
         (f)   Non-motorized transportation shall be accommodated by providing
bicycle storage, seating areas, and transit stop, if required. Vehicular
traffic shall be adequately separated from bicycle and pedestrian circulation.
      (4)   Landscaping.
         (a)   Landscaping shall be provided consistent with the requirements
of the landscaping section in §
25.07.011.
         (b)   Parking shall be screened from streets through combined use of
berming, walls, and landscaping.
         (c)   Common open space areas shall be landscaped appropriate to their
function.
      (5)   Scale and massing.
         (a)   The bulk and mass of new multi-family structures and additions
shall be sensitive to the scale of buildings in the immediate neighborhood.
         (b)   Multi-family residential structures must incorporate
architectural design details and elements which provide visual character and
interest, avoiding flat planar walls and “box”-like appearances through the use
of courtyards, balconies, offset planes and levels, deeply recessed or
projecting windows, sloping roofs, and landscaped yards.
      (6)   Site design and structure orientation.
         (a)   The main entry to the multi-family development shall be clearly
delineated and identifiable, and easily accessible for pedestrians from the
public street.
         (b)   Entrances to individual residential units shall be accessible
from the street or from common open space areas within the development.
         (c)   Windows, balconies, and similar openings shall be oriented to
preserve privacy of individual units within the development.
         (d)   Loading and refuse/recycling collection areas shall be located
to provide easy access to collection vehicles and to minimize noise impacts on
residents.
(Ord. 1043 § 3 (part), 2022)
§ 25.07.003 NON-RESIDENTIAL ARCHITECTURAL AND DESIGN STANDARDS.
   (A)   Purpose. Site design and architectural standards are established
consistent with general plan policy to promote quality design of new
commercial, industrial, and similar nonresidential uses. San Benito County
recognizes that quality design promotes longer life of structures, improves the
appearance and maintenance of business districts and communities, and increases
value of properties countywide.
   (B)   Applicability. The site design and architectural standards set forth
in this chapter shall apply to all new non-residential structures, additions to
structures, and accessory structures (including garages) in the following
zones: C-1, C-2, BP, M-1, M-2, RRP, and PQP.
   (C)   Architectural styles.
      (1)   ARCHITECTURAL STYLE as used in this section refers to a set of
features that make a building or other structure notable and historically
identifiable. Architectural style may include such elements as form, method of
construction, building materials, and regional character.
      (2)   All references to “architectural style” refer to widely accepted
definitions used in the architectural profession. Where there is disagreement
about the particulars of a given style, the Director shall make the final
determination.
   (D)   Standards for all non-residential zones.
      (1)   Architecture.
         (a)   A unified architectural and design theme shall be applied to all
structures within a development.
         (b)   Quality and definable treatment shall be applied to all façades
exposed to public view. Blank end walls shall be avoided. Treatments shall
include architectural features, landscaping, or art elements that tie into the
overall design theme.
         (c)   Structures shall be designed to avoid long, monotonous, non-
articulated façades. Techniques such as staggered building planes, variation of
façades, recessed entries, and use of relief features shall be used to create
variety and interest.
         (d)   Roof lines and materials shall be compatible with the
architectural style of the structures. Special consideration to color and
material shall be given to the design and treatment of roofs because of their
potential visual impact.
         (e)   Roof flashing, rain gutters, down spouts, vents, and other roof
protrusions shall be screened from view or finished to match adjacent materials
and/or colors of the parent structure.
         (f)   Additions to structures shall be designed to match the roofline,
style, and colors of the original structure. Where the original structure has
limited design quality, the addition shall work to enhance the overall
appearance of the site.
         (g)   All lighting and illumination fixtures shall complement
architectural style of project. See outdoor lighting standards in
Chapter 25.07.
      (2)   Loading access.
         (a)   Loading and service areas shall not be visible from street
frontages or along at-grade highway corridors. Loading dock and service areas
must be located on interior building side or rear yards and concealed from
public view.
         (b)   Loading areas shall be designed and located to avoid conflicts
with interior pedestrian and vehicular circulation.
      (3)   Scale and massing.
         (a)   Nonresidential structures adjacent to residential uses shall
incorporate sensitive transitions in scale and massing. For example, structure
mass shall be broken down using height step-backs, articulated sub-volumes, and
horizontal and vertical façade articulation.
         (b)   Long linear walls shall be staggered horizontally to provide
interest and break long lines.
         (c)   Building forms shall be designed to create and define visually
attractive exterior and functional spaces.
         (d)   Random or irregular building relationships shall be avoided.
         (e)   Building massing, height, and bulk shall be comparable to that
of nearby surrounding development.
      (4)   Service facilities and equipment screening.
         (a)   All mechanical equipment shall be fully screened. Roof-mounted
equipment shall be screened utilizing roof lines, parapets, or other similar
methods. Equipment located on the ground must be fully screened with materials
that are architecturally compatible with the structures they serve.
         (b)   Mechanical screens and penthouses shall be integrated with the
building façade whenever possible and constructed of architecturally compatible
materials, unless such integration is precluded by applicable codes or
requirements. Screens should be continuous and solid.
         (c)   Utility connections, gas storage tanks, storage and maintenance
equipment, and telephone junction boxes shall be screened from public view with
the use of fencing or walls, berming, and/or landscaping.
         (d)   Trash and recyclable materials collection bins shall be located
within a trash enclosure, per §
25.07.014 of this title. The enclosure shall be finished using materials
compatible with the surrounding architecture and shall be softened with
landscaping. Gates shall be solid metal painted to match adjacent buildings.
         (e)   Utility rooms, switchgears, and other similar utility equipment
shall be within the building that it serves or in other decorative/
architecturally designed structure.
         (f)   Where feasible, appurtenant equipment, plumbing, and related
solar energy fixtures shall be installed in the attic, or if infeasible, flush
mounted or ground mounted.
      (5)   Walls and fences.
         (a)   Wall and fencing materials and patterns shall be compatible with
the style and themes of the primary structure.
         (b)   Where walls are erected in locations visible from a public
right-of-way, the use of full dimension caps, pilasters, and changes in wall
surfaces (staggering) shall be applied.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/fb9621aeb40cfcace25e7d8581ab7f5ecac73a18/
IMAGES/0-0-0-6556.png]
 
Pilasters of stacked stone used with a wooden fence.
   (E)   Commercial site design and architectural standards.
      (1)   Access and circulation.
         (a)   Any commercial structure located at a corner intersection shall
incorporate architectural features that enhance pedestrian movement. These
features may include building cut-offs, walk-through covered arcades, water
features and trellis structures.
         (b)   Circulation shall be designed for both vehicle and pedestrian
use. Pedestrian access from the street and the parking lot to the main door of
the businesses they serve shall be designed to avoid conflict with vehicular
traffic. Pedestrian paths shall be clearly delineated with pavement materials
and/or markings and signage.
      (2)   Architectural style. A unified and/or complementary architectural
style shall be applied to all structures within a commercial center and to
signage in the center.
      (3)   Scale and massing.
      (a)   The scale and massing of commercial structures shall achieve a
street-level environment accommodating to pedestrians.
      (b)   Height shall be determined as set forth in height measurement in
Chapter 25.07. However, the underlying theme of the massing should be to
maintain a human scale.
      (c)   Structures shall be designed to avoid long, monotonous, plain
façades. Techniques such as staggered building planes, variation of façades,
recessed entries, and the use of arcades shall be used to create variety and
interest.
      (4)   Site design.
         (a)   The entry area and pedestrian paths should be distinguished
through the use of complementary and passive design features, such as changes
in paving texture and color, lighting features, planters, etc.
         (b)   Storefronts shall be oriented to the major street frontage, and/
or interior parking lot, as appropriate. While side or rear entries may be
desirable for secondary access, the predominant, major building entry shall be
oriented toward the major street.
         (c)   Buildings shall be oriented as close to the street as possible,
with parking toward the rear of the site, to the greatest extent possible.
Where parking must be oriented toward a public right-of-way, the parking shall
be screened with berming, landscaping, or other methods.
   (F)   Industrial site design and architectural standards.
      (1)   Access and circulation.
         (a)   Circulation shall be designed for both vehicle and pedestrian
use. Pedestrian access from the parking lot to the main door of the business
shall be designed to avoid conflict with vehicular traffic.
         (b)   See loading standards and requirements in the parking section of
Chapter 25.07.
      (2)   Service facilities and equipment screening. Buildings, walls, and
landscaping shall be arranged to screen less visually aesthetic components
necessary for industrial development, including loading and service bays,
storage areas, trash enclosures, mechanical equipment, and noise and odor
producing functions. Service areas shall be located at the sides and/or rear of
main buildings, and screened from public view with compatible architectural
features and walls, and/or dense landscaping.
(Ord. 1043 § 3 (part), 2022)
§ 25.07.004 GENERAL RULES OF MEASUREMENT.
   (A)   For all calculations, the applicant shall be responsible for supplying
drawings illustrating the measurements that apply to a project. These drawings
shall be drawn to scale and of sufficient detail to allow easy verification
upon inspection.
   (B)   Fractions. Whenever this title requires consideration of distances,
parking spaces, dwelling units, or other aspects of development or the physical
environment expressed in numerical quantities, and the result of a calculation
contains a fraction of a whole number, the results will be rounded as follows,
unless the County Code provides for a different rounding system:
      (1)   General rounding. Fractions exceeding one-half (0.5) or greater
shall be rounded up to the nearest whole number and fractions equal to or less
than one-half (0.5) shall be rounded down to the nearest whole number, except
as otherwise provided.
      (2)   Exception for state affordable housing density bonus. The
calculation of fractions related to permitted bonus density units for projects
eligible for bonus density pursuant to Cal. Gov’t Code § 65915 or any successor
statute, and the Affordable Housing, Density Bonuses, and Incentives chapter,
any fractional number of units shall be rounded up to the next whole number.
   (C)   Measuring distances.
      (1)   Measurements are shortest distance. When measuring a required
distance, such as the minimum distance between a structure and a lot line, the
measurement is made at the closest or shortest distance between the two
objects.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/fb9621aeb40cfcace25e7d8581ab7f5ecac73a18/
IMAGES/0-0-0-6554.png]
 
Example of measuring the shortest distance, in this case between two buildings.
      (2)   Distances are measured horizontally. When determining distances for
setbacks and structure dimensions, all distances are measured along a
horizontal plane from the appropriate line, edge of building, structure,
storage area, parking area, or other object. These distances are not measured
by following the topography or slope of the land.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/fb9621aeb40cfcace25e7d8581ab7f5ecac73a18/
IMAGES/0-0-0-6585.png]
 
Setbacks and other dimensions are measured horizontally, even on sloping sites.
      (3)   Measurements involving a structure. Measurements involving a
structure are made to the closest support element of the structure. Structures
or portions of structures that are entirely underground are not included in
measuring required distances.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/fb9621aeb40cfcace25e7d8581ab7f5ecac73a18/
IMAGES/0-0-0-6587.png]
 
Setbacks are measured to the support element of the structure.
      (4)   Measurement of vehicle stacking or travel areas. Measurement of a
minimum travel distance for vehicles, such as garage entrance setbacks and
stacking lane distances, are measured down the center of the vehicle travel
area. For example, curving driveways and travel lanes are measured along the
center arc of the driveway or traffic lane.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/fb9621aeb40cfcace25e7d8581ab7f5ecac73a18/
IMAGES/0-0-0-6589.png]
 
Required vehicle stacking is measured from the beginning of the drive aisle (A)
to the pickup window (B)
      (5)   Measuring radius. When a specified land use is required to be
located a minimum distance from another land use, the minimum distance is
measured in a straight line from all points along the lot line of the subject
project, in all directions.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/fb9621aeb40cfcace25e7d8581ab7f5ecac73a18/
IMAGES/0-0-0-6591.png]
 
Example of measuring required minimum distance.
   (D)   Measuring height.
      (1)   Measuring building height. Building height is measured from the
average level of the highest and lowest points where the vertical plane of the
exterior walls touches finished grade, to the highest point on the roof.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/fb9621aeb40cfcace25e7d8581ab7f5ecac73a18/
IMAGES/0-0-0-6595.png]
 
On a sloping site, building height is measured from the average of the high and
low points on the ground to the top of the structure.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/fb9621aeb40cfcace25e7d8581ab7f5ecac73a18/
IMAGES/0-0-0-6599.png]
 
On a flat site, building height is measured from ground level to the highest
point of the structure.
      (2)   Measuring height of fences or walls. See §
25.07.009 for rules on measuring the heights of walls and fences.
      (3)   Measuring the height of decks. Deck height is determined by
measuring from average level of the ground below the deck to the top of the
floor of the deck directly above the point measured.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/fb9621aeb40cfcace25e7d8581ab7f5ecac73a18/
IMAGES/0-0-0-6601.png]
 
Measuring deck height. On a very flat site, A B and C will be the same height.
   (E)   Measuring lot width and depth.
      (1)   Lot width. Lot width is the horizontal distance between the
midpoints of the side lot lines.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/fb9621aeb40cfcace25e7d8581ab7f5ecac73a18/
IMAGES/0-0-0-6603.png]
 
Measuring lot width.
      (2)   Lot depth. Lot depth is measured along a straight line down from
the midpoint of the front property line of the lot to the midpoint of the rear
property line or to the most distant point on any other lot line where there is
no rear lot line.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/fb9621aeb40cfcace25e7d8581ab7f5ecac73a18/
IMAGES/0-0-0-6605.png]
 
Measuring lot depth.
   (F)   Determining gross floor area of structures. The gross floor area of a
building is the sum of the areas of all floors of a building or other enclosed
structure, measured from the outside perimeter of the exterior walls.
      (1)   Floor area in residential zones (R-1, RR and RM). The gross floor
area for structures in residential zones shall be measured as the total floor
area of all the floors of a building from the outside walls. The gross floor
area shall include: the residential floor area of any building(s) located on
the lot including the main dwelling, detached accessory structures, accessory
dwelling units, garage or carport, except non-enclosed covered structures such
as covered patios or porches, decks, and balconies.
      (2)   Floor area in non-residential zones. The gross floor area shall
include the total floor area of all the floors of a building measured from the
outside walls, including vents; shafts; covered courts; elevators; stairways;
mechanical, electrical, and communications equipment; and similar facilities.
   (G)   Measuring lot coverage (area covered by structures).
      (1)   Lot coverage is the ratio of the total gross floor area of all
structures, except for excluded structures, to the total lot area, typically
expressed as a percentage.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/fb9621aeb40cfcace25e7d8581ab7f5ecac73a18/
IMAGES/0-0-0-6607.png]
 
Lot coverage is the sum of the area of all structures (A + B + C) divided by
the total area of the lot or parcel (D). Features such as swimming pools are
not included in lot coverage.
      (2)   The following structures shall be excluded from the calculation of
lot coverage:
         (a)   Unenclosed and unroofed decks, uncovered patio slab, covered or
uncovered porches, covered or uncovered landings, and covered or uncovered
balconies;
         (b)   Sidewalks, driveways, and other paved areas not covered by a
roof;
         (c)   Eaves and roof overhangs projecting up to three feet from a
wall;
         (d)   Structures that have roofs that are at least 50% open to the sky
through uniformly distributed openings;
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/fb9621aeb40cfcace25e7d8581ab7f5ecac73a18/
IMAGES/0-0-0-6609.png]
 
Example of a structure with an “open” roof.
         (e)   Uncovered swimming pools and hot tubs.
   (H)   Determining lot lines. The following shall be used to determine the
locations of front, side, and rear lot lines.
      (1)   Front lot line. The narrowest boundary line separating a lot from a
public or private street; in the case of a lot having no street frontage, the
same will mean the narrowest boundary line parallel and closest to the nearest
street or highway, as determined by the director.
      (2)   Rear lot line. A lot line which is most distant from the front lot
line.
      (3)   Side lot line. Any lot boundary line which is not a front or rear
lot line.
      (4)   If access to a public roadway is provided via an easement, the
front lot line shall be the line to which the easement is connected.
   (I)   Determining setbacks (yards). A setback line defining a required yard
is parallel to and at the specified distance from the corresponding front,
side, or rear property line.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/fb9621aeb40cfcace25e7d8581ab7f5ecac73a18/
IMAGES/0-0-0-6611.png]
 
Illustration of the locations of setback lines. On a parcel or lot with curved
lot line(s), the corresponding setback lines will also be curved.
(Ord. 1043 § 3 (part), 2022)
§ 25.07.005 ENCROACHMENTS INTO REQUIRED SETBACKS.
   (A)   Building projections. Building projections may encroach into required
setbacks according to the standards of Table 25.07-A, Allowed Encroachments
into Required Setbacks, subject to all applicable requirements of the Building
Code. The “limitations” column states any dimensional, area, or other
limitations that apply to such projections.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/fb9621aeb40cfcace25e7d8581ab7f5ecac73a18/
IMAGES/0-0-0-6615.png]
Examples of building features that can encroach into required setback areas.
Table 25.07-A
Allowed Encroachments into Required Setbacks
           Required Front or Required Interior
Projection Required Street   Side Yard         Required Rear Yard Limitations
           Side Yard
                 Required Front   Required      Required Rear
Projection       or Required      Interior Side Yard          Limitations
                 Street Side Yard Yard
                 No projection may extend closer than three feet to any lot
All projections  line or into a public utility easement. Where any allowance of
                 this title conflicts with applicable building codes, the more
                 restrictive standard shall apply.
Cornices,
canopies, eaves,
and similar
architectural    3 feet           3 feet        3 feet         
features
(chimneys and
bay windows)
Fire escapes     4.5 feet         4.5 feet      4.5 feet       
Uncovered deck   4.5 feet         4.5 feet      4.5 feet       
Uncovered patio  4.5 feet         4.5 feet      4.5 feet       
An uncovered
stair and                                                     No such stair and
landing which                                                 landing shall
does not extend  May not encroach 3 feet        6 feet        extend beyond any
above a ground                                                official plan
floor entrance                                                line or future
except for the                                                width line.
railing
                                                              Must be
                                                              unenclosed on
                                                              three sides
                                                              except for
Covered porches  5 feet           3 feet        10 feet       required vertical
and patios                                                    supports, insect
                                                              screening, and
                                                              kickboards not
                                                              exceeding one
                                                              foot in height.
Ramps and
similar          Reasonable accommodation will be made, consistent with the
structures that  reasonable accommodation provisions in
provide access   Chapter 25.02.
for persons with
disabilities
 
(Ord. 1043 § 3 (part), 2022)
§ 25.07.006 GENERAL STANDARDS FOR ACCESSORY STRUCTURES.
   (A)   Accessory structure definition.
      (1)   An ACCESSORY STRUCTURE is a structure that is physically detached
from, and secondary and incidental in terms of use to the primary structure. An
accessory structure may be larger than the primary structure; for instance, a
barn (accessory structure) larger than the house (primary structure).
      (2)   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE does not include water storage tanks (subject
to fire department needs), propane tanks, and other similar infrastructure.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/fb9621aeb40cfcace25e7d8581ab7f5ecac73a18/
IMAGES/0-0-0-6621.png]
 
Typical accessory structures are shown in the example above.
   (B)   Applicability. The provisions of this section apply to all structures,
including but not limited to garages, carports, sheds, barns, workshops,
gazebos, and covered patios which are detached from the main building on the
site.
   (C)   Setbacks.
      (1)   Accessory structures shall meet the following setbacks, except
setbacks for accessory structures in residential and agricultural zones, which
are defined in §§
25.07.007 and
25.07.008:
 
Type and Size of Accessory Structure            Front Setback                                       Side    Rear    Notes
                                                                                                    Setback Setback
At least one of the following apply:
•   Contains conditioned space, or         5 feet behind the street-facing façade of the main 5 feet  10 feet  
•   Exceeds 12 feet in height, or          structure
•   Greater than 120 square feet
                                                                                                                    May not
                                                                                                                    be
At least one of the following apply:                                                                                located
•   Does not contain conditioned space, or                                                                     closer to
•   Less than 12 feet in height, or        Same as the main structure                          3 feet  3 feet  the
•   Smaller than 120 square feet                                                                               street
                                                                                                                    than the
                                                                                                                    main
                                                                                                                    structure
 
      (2)   Setbacks for accessory dwelling units are addressed in §
25.08.002 of this title.
   (D)   Plumbing. Accessory structures may have plumbing for a washer, dryer,
toilet, shower, wet bar, efficiency kitchen, and/or utility sink, except for
accessory dwelling units, which shall have all plumbing required for a dwelling
unit. (For standards applying to accessory dwelling units, see
Chapter 25.08.)
   (E)   Breezeway. A breezeway may be used to combine a primary structure and
an accessory structure into a single primary structure. The combined structure
shall be subject to all development standards for the primary structure.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/fb9621aeb40cfcace25e7d8581ab7f5ecac73a18/
IMAGES/0-0-0-6623.png]
 
When a breezeway is constructed, the formerly separate structures (left) are
now considered one structure (right). See the Glossary in
Chapter 25.09 for a definition of “breezeway.”
   (F)   Dwellings. Except for guesthouses or accessory dwelling units,
accessory buildings shall not be used for dwelling purposes. Kitchen facilities
shall not be allowed in an accessory building or guesthouse, except for
accessory dwelling units. See the Glossary of this zoning code for a definition
of “kitchen.”
   (G)   Deed restriction. Where an attached or detached accessory structure is
designed, arranged, or may be occupied for use as a residence or business,
(i.e., contains more than one room, bath, and/or wet bar), a deed restriction
must be recorded that states that the building shall not be subsequently
altered or used as a dwelling unit or business without obtaining county
approval.
(Ord. 1043 § 3 (part), 2022)
§ 25.07.007 DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS FOR ACCESSORY STRUCTURES IN RESIDENTIAL
ZONES.
   (A)   General accessory structure standards in residential zones. The
following standards apply to general accessory structures in the RR, R-1 and RM
zones. For standards applying to accessory dwelling units, see §
25.08.002.
      (1)   No single accessory structure shall occupy more than 30% of the
required rear yard. The total of all accessory structures shall not exceed 40%
of the required rear yard.
      (2)   The following setbacks shall apply to accessory structures in local
responsibility areas (LRA fire designations), and also apply in state
responsibility areas (SRA) only if a 30-foot vegetation clearance easement is
obtained on the neighboring property.
 
Accessory Structure Setbacks (feet)
Zoning District         Front                             Side Rear Dwelling
RR, R-1, RM Uses        Same as for the primary structure 3    5    5
Structures for animals* Same as for the primary structure 10   10   10/25**
* Barns, stables, riding arenas or farm outbuildings.
** Ten feet shall be maintained from any dwelling on the subject lot and 25
feet shall be maintained from any dwellings on adjacent lots.
 
      (3)   No detached accessory building shall exceed one story or 20 feet in
height. Accessory structures less than 120 square feet shall be limited to no
more than 10 feet in height.
      (4)   No more than two detached accessory buildings 120 square feet or
greater in size shall be permitted on one lot. No more than three accessory
buildings less than 120 square feet in size shall be placed on a lot.
      (5)   Detached garages, pool houses, guesthouses, workshops and other
recreational buildings may have an accessory structure setback, however, the
detached building shall not be subsequently attached to any residential
structure or converted to a dwelling.
      (6)   Except for accessory dwelling units, an accessory building may be
no more than 1,000 square feet in gross floor area, unless an administrative
use permit is approved to allow a larger size.
      (7)   Where the primary use of the lot is a viable agricultural operation
run by an agriculturalist, agricultural buildings and facilities shall be
deemed to be permitted accessory structures and may be allowed to be located up
to the front yard setback whether or not a dwelling unit exists on the site.
      (8)   In the R-1 and R-M Zones, accessory structures shall be located in
the rear half of the lot, unless it is not possible to place the structure in
the rear half of the lot, in which case the structure shall be subject to minor
development plan review.
(Ord. 1043 § 3 (part), 2022)
§ 25.07.008 DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS FOR ACCESSORY BUILDINGS IN AGRICULTURAL
ZONES.
   (A)   General accessory structure standards in agricultural zones.
      (1)   The following standards apply to general accessory structures in
the AR, AP, R, and RT zones. For standards applying to accessory dwelling
units, see § 25.08.002.
      (2)   In any agricultural zone, detached accessory structures shall not
be located between the main dwelling on the lot and the roadway frontage,
except as provided in this section, and shall be subject to the following
limitations:
         (a)   Where the primary use of the lot is agriculture, agricultural
buildings and facilities shall be deemed to be permitted accessory structures
and may be allowed to be located up to the front yard setback whether or not a
dwelling unit exists on the site.
 
Accessory Structure Setbacks (feet)
Zoning District Front           Side            Rear              Dwelling
RT, R, AP, AR   Same as for the Same as for the Same as for the
uses*           primary         primary         primary structure See district
                structure       structure
Structures for  40              40              40                20/75***
animals**
* See applicable zoning district for main and front structure setbacks.
** Barns, stables, riding arenas or farm outbuildings.
*** Twenty feet shall be maintained from any dwelling on the subject lot and
75 feet shall be maintained from any dwellings on adjacent lots.
 
         (b)   An agricultural building may exceed 5,000 square feet with an
administrative use permit and development plan review.
(Ord. 1043 § 3 (part), 2022)
§ 25.07.009 HEIGHT EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Allowed projections. The structures listed in Table 25.07-B, Allowed
Projections Above Height Limits, may exceed the maximum permitted building
height in the RD zone, subject to the limitations stated and further provided
that no portion of a structure more than the building height limit may contain
habitable area. Additional height above the limits of Table 25.07-B may be
approved with a conditional use permit, pursuant to the provisions of §
25.02.003.
Table 25.07-B
Allowed Projections Above Height Limits
Structures Allowed Above the Maximum Vertical Projection Maximum Coverage and
Height Limit                 Above the Height Limit      Locational Limitation
Structures Allowed Above   Maximum Vertical     Maximum Coverage and
the Height Limit           Projection Above the Locational Limitation
                           Height Limit
Barns                      10 feet              None.
Skylights                  1 foot               None.
Chimneys                   8 feet               None.
Decorative features                             Limited to a total of 20%
including spires, bell                          of roof area, inclusive of
towers, cupolas, etc.                           all structures.
Rooftop open space         10 feet              Must be set back from the
features including sun                          exterior wall one foot for
decks, sunshade and                             every foot of projection
windscreens, trellises,                         above the height limit.
and landscaping
Elevator and stair towers                       Limited to a total of 10%
(for multi-unit                                 of roof area.
residential and non-       16 feet              Must be set back from the
residential buildings                           exterior wall one foot for
only)                                           every foot of projection
                                                above the height limit.
                                                Must be set back from the
                                                exterior wall one foot for
                                                every foot of projection
Mechanical equipment       5 feet               above the height limit and
                                                screed from view from
                                                adjacent at-grade public
                                                streets.
Fire escapes, catwalks,
and open railings required No restriction       None.
by law
Telecommunications         Subject to the provisions of
facilities, antennas,      Chapter 7.11 of the County Code, Wireless
microwave equipment, and   Communication Facilities Standards.
radio towers
 
   (B)   Exempt structures.
      (1)   The following structures are exempt from limits on projections
above height limits in all zones except R-1 and RM: windmills, barns, silos,
grain elevators, oil derricks, mechanical devices, radio, communication and
television antenna, spires and bell towers, and other similar structures.
      (2)   In the R-1 and RM zones, these structures may exceed the height
limit for the zone with an administrative use permit.
(Ord. 1043 § 3 (part), 2022)
§ 25.07.010 PARKING.
   (A)   Intent. It is the intent of this chapter to require off-street parking
and loading spaces on each parcel for all land uses within the county
sufficient in number to accommodate all vehicles of residents, employees,
customers, clients and others which may congregate at any point in time in
order to reduce on-street parking and improve traffic and pedestrian safety.
   (B)   Applicability. On-site parking and loading shall be provided in
accordance with this chapter at the time any main building or structure is
constructed, or any new land use is established.
   (C)   Parking space requirements.
      (1)   Each land use shall provide at least the number of parking spaces
stated in Table 25.07-C below, Required Number of Parking Spaces. The parking
requirement for any use not listed in Table 25.07-C shall be determined by the
Director based upon the requirements for the most similar comparable use, the
characteristics of the proposed use, and any other relevant data regarding
parking demand.
      (2)   The Planning Commission may require additional parking spaces and
parking lot areas for any use to provide parking area adequate with the intent
of this chapter. The Planning Commission may make additional requirements in
connection with off-street parking areas.
Table 25.07-C
Required Parking
Residential Uses Off-Street Parking Spaces Required
Residential Uses             Off-Street Parking Spaces Required
Single- and two-family
dwellings
(See §                      Two stalls per dwelling unit, one of which shall
25.08.002 for parking        be a covered carport or garage
standards for accessory
dwelling units)
                             •   One per one-bedroom unit.
                             •   One and a half per two-bedroom unit.
Multi-family dwellings       •   Two per unit with three or more bedrooms.
                             •   One guest space per every four units.
                             One space for each unit shall be covered with a
                             garage or carport.
Caretaker units              One per unit
Group residential            One per employee, plus 1 per bedroom or 1 per
                             every two beds, whichever is greater
Residential care facilities, None beyond the parking required for the
small                        residential housing type.
Residential care facilities, One per every three beds.
large
Residential facility,        One per every 3 beds.
assisted living
Supportive housing           None beyond the parking required for the
                             residential housing type.
Transitional housing         None beyond the parking required for the
                             residential housing type.
 
Recreational Uses Off-Street Parking Spaces Required
Recreational Uses                       Off-Street Parking Spaces Required
Places of public assembly with fixed
seats. This category includes:          One stall for every four seats or one
auditoriums, exhibit halls, dance       stall for each seven lineal feet of
halls, places of worship, and other     bench or pew seating
buildings used for public assembly)
Places of public assembly without fixed
seats. This category includes:          One stall per 100 square feet of
auditoriums, exhibit halls, dance       assembly area
halls, places of worship, and other
buildings used for public assembly)
Bowling centers                         Six stalls per lane, plus one stall for
                                        each shift employee
Billiard and card rooms                 Two stalls per table or one-half stall
                                        for each seat, whichever is greater
Golf, driving and shooting ranges       One and one-half stalls per station
                                        One stall per 100 square feet of pool
Commercial swimming pools               area (total of water and adjacent deck
                                        area)
Skating rinks and commercial            One stall for each 100 square feet of
recreational areas (e.g., water slides) skating or recreational area, plus one
                                        stall for each shift employee
Tennis, handball and racket courts      Two stalls per court, plus one stall
                                        for each shift employee
 
 
Institutional Uses                      Off-Street Parking Required
                                        One stall for each three beds, plus one
Hospitals                               stall per staff doctor, plus one stall
                                        for each three staff members
Convalescent homes and nursing homes    See “Residential facility, assisted
                                        living”
Day care and nursery schools            1 per 500 square feet of floor area
                                        One stall for every four seats or one
Mortuaries with chapels                 space for each seven lineal feet of
                                        bench or pew.
                                        One space for each employee, plus one
Public, parochial and private           space for each ten students of planned
elementary schools                      capacity or one stall for each four
                                        auditorium seats, whichever is greater,
                                        plus bus loading area
                                        One stall for each employee, plus one
Colleges, art, craft, music and dancing and space for each four students of
schools, business, professional and     planned capacity or one stall for each
trade schools                           four auditorium seats, whichever is
                                        greater
 
 
Professional Office Uses                 Off-Street Parking Requirements
Medical, dental, optometry or            One stall per 150 gross square feet of
chiropractic offices and clinics         floor area, plus one stall per doctor
Research facilities                      One stall per employee, plus one stall
                                         per 500 gross square feet.
Banks, lending agencies, financial
institutions, governmental institutions, One stall per 300 square feet of gross
and public utility offices (including    floor area
those with drive-up facilities)
All other professional offices           One stall per 300 square feet of gross
                                         floor area
 
Retail and Commercial Uses Off-Street Parking Requirements
Retail and Commercial Uses              Off-Street Parking Requirements
General retail sales, repair and        One stall per 250 square feet of gross
services                                floor area
Retail sales of large appliances,       One stall per 400 square feet of gross
automobiles, furniture or other similar floor area
bulky merchandise
                                        One stall for every three seats or one
Restaurants, bars, taverns, lunchrooms, stall per 100 square feet of floor area
nightclubs and cocktail lounges         devoted to dining, whichever is
                                        greater, plus one stall for each shift
                                        employee
                                        One stall for every three seats or 100
                                        square feet of dining area, whichever
                                        is greater, plus one stall for each
Restaurants and other retail            shift employee, plus eight stalls or
establishments with takeout service, or eight auto waiting spaces for each
walk-up window and roadside stands      exterior service window
                                        See Chapter 25.08 for standards related
                                        to vehicle stacking at drive-through
                                        restaurants
Barber and beauty shops                 One stall per 100 square feet of gross
                                        floor area
Uncovered retail sales are for          One stall for each 4,000 square feet of
landscaping nurseries, vehicles and     gross display area, plus one stall per
construction materials                  employee, but not less than four stalls
                                        One stall per 400 square feet of gross
                                        floor area, plus one stall per
Service stations and vehicle repair     employee, but not less than three
garages                                 stalls total (service bays shall not be
                                        counted as part of the required
                                        parking)
Hotels and motels                       One stall for each guestroom, plus one
                                        stall for each shift employee
Bus stations, train depots and other    One stall for each employee, plus user
transportation depots                   parking as determined by the Planning
                                        Director
                                        One stall per 250 square feet of gross
Undefined commercial uses               floor area, subject to additional
                                        spaces depending on the eventual uses
 
 
Type of
Industrial    Off-Street Parking Required
Use
Manufacturing
and general   One space per 500 square feet of gross floor area for projects up to
industrial    10,000 square feet.
uses
One space per
1,000 square
feet of gross
floor area     
for projects
over 10,000
square feet.
Office area
within a
manufacturing Park per the standard for “All professional offices”
or industrial
building
Recycling     Six vehicles or the anticipated peak customer demand load, whichever
collection    is greater, plus one additional parking space for each commercial
facility      vehicle operated by the facility
Self-storage  One space per 50 units or spaces, plus two spaces for the manager’s
facility      unit.
Warehousing
and           One space per 2,000 square feet of warehouse space, plus parking for
fulfillment   office per the standard for “All professional offices”
centers
 
   (D)   Calculation of required spaces.
      (1)   Calculation of parking. If the calculation for required parking
results in a fraction of one-half or more of a parking space, one parking space
shall be provided. When less than one-half of a space is calculated, no parking
space is required.
      (2)   Parking ratios.
         (a)   Floor area. Where an on-site parking or loading requirement is
stated as a ratio of parking spaces to floor area, the floor area is assumed to
be gross floor area, unless otherwise stated.
         (b)   Employees. Where an on-site parking or loading requirement is
stated as a ratio of parking spaces to employees, the number of employees shall
be based on the largest shift that occurs in a typical week.
      (3)   Sites with multiple uses. If more than one use is located on a
site, the number of required parking and loading spaces shall be equal to the
sum of the requirements calculated separately for each use. A reduction may be
approved at the discretion of the Director, and include a statement on the
plan.
   (E)   Reduced parking requirements specified and enforcement. The review
authority may reduce the number of parking spaces required through the granting
of a use permit if at least one of the following findings can be made in
addition to the standard findings for approval of a conditional use permit:
      (1)   Quantitative information provided by the applicant or staff
verifies the need for fewer spaces (e.g., sales receipts, documentation of
customer frequency, information on parking standards required for the proposed
land use by other agencies, etc.);
      (2)   Design features are included in the project that would reduce the
need for parking, such as bus stops, increased bicycle parking, designated
spaces for ride sharing or taxi services, etc.
      (3)   The use or project design creates an integrated whole wherein the
parking reduction will not adversely affect other businesses or uses on the
same property or within the boundaries of the project.
   (F)   Bicycle parking. Parking lots with 20 or more spaces shall provide one
bicycle parking space for each ten parking spaces, either as a bicycle rack
designed to enable bicycles to be locked to the rack or in a secured enclosed
location.
   (G)   Shared parking. Every use shall provide the required parking on the
same parcel except the owners of adjoining properties may provide parking
spaces in common if the parking area is secured by easement or other sufficient
legal document and provided the total number of parking spaces provided is
equal to the sum of the individual needs, except as provided in this title.
   (H)   Off-site parking.
      (1)   Off-site parking for non-residential uses may be allowed upon
application to the Planning Commission for a use permit or as part of the
development project application. Off-site parking for residential uses would
require demonstrating that there are practical difficulties or public health or
safety issues and also is subject to obtaining a use permit. The parking shall
be located in the same zoning district as the use, where possible. All off-site
parking spaces shall be on an adjacent parcel within 500 feet of the use or at
the discretion of staff, shall have pedestrian access between the parking and
use, and the use shall provide a minimum amount of on-site parking in Table
25.07-D, below.
Table 25.07-D
Shared Parking Reductions
 
Shared Parking Between Uses Minimum Amount of Required Parking
Retail                      60%
Hotel/motel                 75%
Restaurant                  50%
Entertainment/recreation al 40%
Industrial, office          40%
 
      (2)   The easement shall ensure that no other parking can share the
spaces or reserve them for 24 hours or more without prior permission by the
Director (or Planning Commission if a hearing is requested by the applicant).
Permission may only be granted upon demonstration that the use will not
interfere with the parking for the initial use and that there are adequate
means of maintaining the off-site parking lot.
   (I)   Parking design standards.
      (1)   Parking access.
         (a)   Shared access. Non-residential projects are encouraged to
provide shared vehicle and pedestrian access to adjacent non-residential
properties for convenience, safety, and efficient circulation. A joint access
agreement guaranteeing the continued availability of the shared access between
the properties approved by the Director shall be recorded in the San Benito
County’s Recorders Office, in a form satisfactory to the County Attorney.
         (b)   Forward entry. Parking facilities of four or more spaces shall
be provided with suitable maneuvering room so that all vehicles accessing the
facility may enter an abutting street in a forward direction.
         (c)   Driveway length. Driveways providing direct access from a public
street to a parking facility, garage, or carport shall be at least 20 feet in
depth.
         (d)   Driveway width. The minimum width of a driveway is as follows:
            1.   One-way driveways. One-way driveways shall be a minimum of 10
feet in width.
            2.   Two-way driveways. Two-way driveways shall be a minimum of 20
feet in width, or as specified in this section.
      (2)   Size and dimensions of parking spaces and maneuvering aisles.
         (a)   Parking spaces and maneuvering aisles shall meet the minimum
size and dimensions established in Table 25.07-E, Parking Space Minimum
Dimensions for 90-Degree Spaces. Screening walls, roof support posts, columns,
or other structural members shall not intrude into the required dimensions for
parking spaces.
Table 25.07-E
Parking Space Minimum Dimensions for 90-Degree Spaces
 
Type of Parking Space Width (feet) Length (feet)
Standard              9            20
Compact               8            16
Parallel              9            22
ADA Accessible        Compliant with the California Building Code
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/fb9621aeb40cfcace25e7d8581ab7f5ecac73a18/
IMAGES/0-0-0-6655.png]
 
Measuring parking space dimensions in a 90-degree configuration.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/fb9621aeb40cfcace25e7d8581ab7f5ecac73a18/
IMAGES/0-0-0-6657.png]
 
Measuring parking space dimensions for angled parking spaces.
         (b)   Maneuvering aisles shall meet the minimum size and dimensions
established in Table 25.07-F, Aisle Dimensions for Maneuvering Vehicles.
Table 25.07-F
Aisle Dimensions for Maneuvering of Vehicles
 
Angle of Parking Aisle Width (feet)
                 One-Way Two-Way
Parallel         12      25
0-30 degrees     12      25
31-45 degrees    14      25
46-60 degrees    16      25
61-90 degrees    25      25
 
Table 25.07-G
Angled Parking Space Dimensions
 
Type of Parking Space Stall Width (feet) Stall Length (feet)
30 degrees            9                  18
45 degrees            9                  20
60 degrees            9                  21
 
      (3)   Electric vehicle charging stations.
         (a)   Where allowed. Electric vehicle charging stations may be
provided in any area designed for the parking or loading of vehicles.
         (b)   Electric vehicle ready charging infrastructure shall be provided
in multi-family housing developments and non-residential developments according
to the standards outlined by CALGreen (Title 24, Part 11).
         (c)   Counted as regular parking spaces. Parking spaces with electric
vehicle charging shall be counted as a standard parking space for the purposes
of providing required parking per this code.
      (4)   Striping and marking.
         (a)   Space outline. All parking spaces shall be clearly outlined with
double striping three inches in width, in durable white paint designed for that
purpose.
         (b)   Maneuvering areas. All aisles, approach lanes, and turning areas
shall be clearly marked with directional arrows and lines as necessary to
provide for safe movement.
         (c)   Compact spaces. All compact spaces shall be clearly marked as
such.
      (5)   Bumpers, curbs, and wheel stops. A permanent curb, bumper, wheel
stop, or similar device at least six inches high and thick shall be installed
to protect buildings and landscaping from vehicular damage. If such protection
is provided by a wheel stop, the stopping edge shall be placed no closer than
two feet from the edges of the required sidewalks, planter, or landscaped areas
and from any building. The two feet beyond the wheel stop may be paved,
landscaped with ground cover, or used as additional sidewalk width. No walkway
used for a wheel stop may be less than seven feet wide.
      (6)   Perimeter curbing. Parking areas designed to accommodate ten or
more vehicles shall provide a six-inch wide and six-inch high concrete curb
along the outer edge of the parking facility pavement, except where said
pavement abuts a fence or wall. Curbs separating landscaped areas from parking
areas shall be designed to allow stormwater runoff to pass through.
      (7)   Back-up design requirement. All off-street parking for all uses,
except single-family and duplex residential uses, shall be designed such that
vehicles need not back out of the parking area into a public street. Utilizing
a public alley for back-up space is acceptable.
      (8)   Surfacing of parking areas.
         (a)   Urban area standard. All parking areas within one mile of any
LAFCO-adopted City Sphere of Influence shall be surfaced with Portland cement
concrete, asphaltic concrete, brick or cobblestones placed upon a base of
crushed rock built to a thickness to meet the County Engineer’s approval,
except for parking stalls adjacent to an alley for single family residential
uses, which may be paved with crushed rock to a thickness to meet the County
Engineer’s approval. Parking areas in urban-density development projects shall
meet this standard unless specific standards are adopted for the development.
         (b)   Community/rural standard. Commercial, industrial, multiple-
residential uses and uses requiring discretionary permits in the communities of
Tres Pinos, Dunneville and Aromas shall provide parking areas with an all-
weather surface that does not generate visible dust. Parking areas located
outside the urban area standard area and the communities stated in this section
shall be paved unless in an agricultural district (as either the base zone or
the actual district).
         (c)   Applications. For the above standards, the following apply:
            1.   Proper drainage must be provided to collect a 100-year storm
event runoff and meter the flow out at the ten-year pre-development level for
the new parking provided.
            2.   All activities or encroachments in the county or state right-
of-way shall obtain an encroachment permit and are required to be paved to
county or state standards.
            3.   For non-paved parking, a minimum surface of compacted CALTRANS
grade aggregate base (or compacted decomposed granite with surface treatment)
shall be provided built to a thickness to meet the County Engineer’s approval.
            4.   Surface treatments used to control dust shall be approved by
the Public Works Department.
            5.   Parking areas where over 10% of the vehicles using the area
have a gross vehicle weight over 10,000 pounds shall provide paving.
            6.   The parking areas shall be maintained in a manner where they
do not generate visible dust, do not create erosion or hazards, and do not
adversely affect neighboring parcels or environmentally sensitive areas.
            7.   General plan noise limits shall be met at the property line.
Where the property line bounds two different zoning districts, the limits of
the most restrictive district shall apply.
      (9)   Entrance and exit visibility requirements. Each exit and entrance
to a parking lot shall be constructed and maintained such that any vehicle
entering or leaving the parking lot shall be clearly visible for a distance of
at least 25 feet to any person on a walk or footpath intersected by such exit
or entrance.
   (J)   Truck loading and unloading space. All retail and wholesale stores,
warehouses, supply houses, buildings devoted to manufacturing trade, hotels,
hospitals or other buildings where large amounts of goods are received or
shipped, shall provide loading and unloading space adequate to handle the
volume and frequency of truck traffic to the building or shopping center. The
number and minimum dimensions of loading spaces shall be at the discretion of
the Planning Director.
   (K)   Additional requirements. The Planning Commission may make such
additional requirements in connection with off-street parking areas as will
protect the character of other property in the neighborhood. This may include,
but not be limited to, adequate screening of the lot by a fence or wall,
landscaping, provision for suitable surfacing and lighting.
(Ord. 1043 § 3 (part), 2022)
§ 25.07.011 LANDSCAPING.
   (A)   Application requirements. A landscaping plan, landscaping grading
plan, irrigation plan, and shading plan shall be required for all development
review (minor and major), conditional use permits, surface mining permits,
subdivisions, and any other permit when the Planning Director deems it
necessary. The landscaping plan, landscaping grading plan, irrigation plan, and
shading plan shall be submitted under one application consistent with the
provisions of §
25.02.001 of this code.
      (1)   The landscaping plan, landscaping grading plan, irrigation plan,
and shading plan may be submitted on four separate exhibits or may be combined
on one to three exhibits, provided that the information required to be
displayed for each plan is legible and clearly discernible.
      (2)   No less than the number of copies as determined by the Planning
Director of the landscaping plan, landscaping grading plan, irrigation plan,
and shading plan shall be submitted for approval by the Director.
      (3)   All landscaping shall comply with state water-efficient landscaping
requirements.
      (4)   All plans shall show the following information:
         (a)   The first sheet of a multiple sheet set shall contain a title
block with the name and address of the project, sheet number, and numbers of
sheets and a revision block to indicate date and type of revisions;
         (b)   Each sheet shall show the required technical data, including
scale of drawing, north arrow, date drawn, and dates of revisions (if
applicable), all property lines and project limits, if other than property
limits, all easements, fences, walls, curbs, roads, walks, structures, mounds,
swales, manholes, banks, and all plant and landscaping materials, grading,
irrigation and other exterior elements proposed. A legend shall also be
included for each symbol used.
   (B)   Landscaping plan requirements.
      (1)   Trees that are native to the area, and/or suitable for the local
climate as determined by the Planning Director, should be used.
      (2)   The location of all existing landscaping materials and where
proposed landscaping material is to be placed shall be shown. Existing trees
shall be preserved whenever it is practical to do so and shall be shown on the
landscaping plan.
      (3)   The quantities, sizes, and locations of all trees, shrubs and
ground cover, hydroseed and wildflower mixtures, drainage systems, etc., shall
be indicated. Trees shall be a minimum 24 box size. Shrubs shall be a minimum
five gallon size; however, the use of smaller plants may be approved as part of
development plan review.
   (C)   Grading plan requirements. The grading plan shall include:
      (1)   Existing and proposed contours at a suitable scale for clarity and
readability.
      (2)   Cross-sections of cuts, fills, building pads and driveways.
      (3)   Tops and toes of proposed cut and fill slopes.
      (4)   Property lines.
      (5)   Existing and proposed buildings, including buildings proposed to be
demolished.
      (6)   Existing trees, including trees proposed to be removed.
      (7)   The drainage of all planting areas and the heights of mounds.
Mounds shall not exceed three-to-one (3:1) slope, and no mound over 30 inches
high shall be placed within 25 feet of any street and/or alley intersections.
      (8)   An adequate erosion control plan.
   (D)   Irrigation plan requirements. An irrigation plan shall show the
following:
      (1)   Locations of all irrigation components, such as sprinkler heads,
valves, pipes, backflow prevention devices and water taps, drip irrigation,
automatic controllers, and quick couplers.
      (2)   Proposed radius or diameter of throw (sprinkler coverage) at a
stated pressure (pounds per square inch, or psi) for each sprinkler head and
drip irrigation specifications.
      (3)   Worst case irrigation system pressure loss calculations.
      (4)   Static water pressure psi, available gallons per hour (gph), water
pressure zone, agency reading locations, and source of information for each
one.
      (5)   Required water budget calculations based on the water efficient
landscape ordinance requirements.
   (E)   Shading requirements.
      (1)   Parking area landscaping shall include shade trees sufficient to
provide for adequate shade canopies within 15 years of age as follows:
Table 25.07-H
Percentage of Total Parking Area Required to be Shaded
 
Number of Parking Spaces Percentage of Parking Area to be Shaded
05-24 spaces             30% minimum
25-49 spaces             40% minimum
50 or more spaces        50% minimum
Note: Parking area to be shaded is uncovered parking spaces. Driveways, drive
aisles, and spaces shaded by structures (solar panels, building overhangs,
etc.) are excluded.
 
      (2)   Trees shall be a minimum 24 box size at planting.
      (3)   Trees shall be planted and maintained throughout the parking area
to ensure that the percentage of the parking area that is shaded is no less
than the minimum amount required by Table 25.07-H, Percentage of Total Parking
Area Required to be Shaded, above. The parking area shading plan shall be
developed in compliance with a landscaping plan. Each planting area shall be of
adequate size for the landscaping approved and shall have adequate irrigation
for that landscaping.
   (F)   Landscaping design standards.
      (1)   Landscaping shall be incorporated into the design of all off-street
parking areas, including covered and decked, as follows:
      (2)   General landscaping provisions.
         (a)   These provisions apply to:
            1.    Landscaping throughout and immediately surrounding parking
areas; and
            2.   Additional landscaping as required by this zoning code.
         (b)   Landscaped areas shall be distributed throughout the entire off-
street parking area as evenly as is approved in the design of the parking
facility. Landscape planters shall be located at least every fifth parking
space, as shown below.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/fb9621aeb40cfcace25e7d8581ab7f5ecac73a18/
IMAGES/0-0-0-6661.png]
 
         (c)   Nothing in this section shall preclude the installation of
additional landscaping and the planting of additional trees so long as such
planting is consistent with visibility regulations;
         (d)   Any open areas in the interior shall be landscaped with
appropriate plant materials and maintained in good condition as provided in
this code;
         (e)   All landscaped areas shall be designed so that plant materials
are protected from vehicle damage, encroachment or overhang;
         (f)   All trees shall be double-staked and secured with a rubber or
plastic strip, or other commercial tie material. Wire ties and twist-a-brace
shall not be used;
         (g)   No trees shall be planted within 25 feet of driveways, alleys
and/or street intersections;
         (h)   All landscaping shall be within planters bounded by a curb at
least six inches high;
         (i)   A six-inch-high curb with a 12-inch-wide concrete walkway shall
be constructed along planters on end stalls adjacent to vehicle parking spaces;
         (j)   In urban areas, all parking areas shall be screened from view
along the entire perimeter of the parking lot by the construction of either a
three-foot-high and three-foot-wide earthen berm, or a five-foot-wide planter
with shrubbery that can be maintained at a height of three feet. When the
parking area is adjacent to a public road right-of-way, the berm or planter
shall be five feet in width.
         (k)   In addition to the perimeter landscaping required by this code,
parking areas of five spaces or more shall be required to provide additional
landscaped areas within the parking area. A minimum percentage of the total
parking area shall be landscaped as follows:
Table 25.07-I
Minimum Percentage of Total Interior Parking Area to be Landscaped
 
Parking Spaces Required                                       5-24   25-49  50+
                                                              Spaces Spaces Spaces
Percentage to be landscaped                                   5.0%   7.5%   10.0%
Percentage to be landscaped — Along state and county scenic 6.0%   8.5%   11.0%
highways
 
   (G)   Walkways. At the discretion of the appropriate authority, a barrier-
free, four-foot-wide paved walkway may be provided through the required planter
at street and driveway intersections to provide unencumbered access for persons
with disabilities from the sidewalk to the parking lot. No planting area shall
by bisected by a handicap walk making it less than five feet wide.
      (1)   Such a walkway shall be located so as to facilitate the most direct
movement of persons using sidewalk curb ramps, if provided;
      (2)   Bus shelters may be located within this planter if approved by the
Planning Director. Such shelters shall not be placed so as to reduce the number
of trees which are otherwise required by this code.
      (3)   General plant materials provisions.
         (a)   Existing mature trees on the site shall be preserved whenever it
is practical to do so;
         (b)   All plant materials shall be maintained free from physical
damage or injury arising from lack of water, chemical damage, insects, and
diseases. Plant materials showing such damage shall be replaced by the same or
similar species;
         (c)   Planting areas shall be kept free from weeds, debris, and
undesirable materials which may be detrimental to public safety, drainage, or
site appearance;
         (d)   Drought tolerant species and California native species are to be
used to the maximum extent possible over non-drought tolerant and nonnative
species.
            1.   The quantity and extent of drought-tolerant species shall be
dependent on the climatic zone of the project;
            2.    Landscaping may include natural features such as rock and
stone, non-drought tolerant plants, and structural features such as fountains,
reflecting pools, art work, screens, walls, and fences.
         (e)   Plant materials shall be grouped together in regard to water and
soil requirements. In order to conserve water, alternative types of low volume
irrigation concepts may be used, including, but not limited to, drip, rotary
spray (in areas 15 feet wide or larger), mini-spray, bubbler, and low volume
sprays.
      (4)   General irrigation provisions.
         (a)   An automatic irrigation system for all planted areas shall be
required.
         (b)   The layout of the system should consider meter water pressure,
pipe size and length, dripping and type of heads.
         (c)   Sprinkler spacing shall not exceed the manufacturer’s
recommended spacing or, if no spacing is recommended, spacing shall not exceed
60% of the diameter of throw (sprinkler coverage). Head-to-head spray coverage
is required.
         (d)   Sprinklers in hazardous locations shall be flush mounted on high
pop models only.
         (e)   Backflow prevention devices for sprinklers shall comply with the
latest edition of the Building Code, as adopted by the County.
   (H)   Request for modification from landscaping standards. The Planning
Director may, without notice or hearing, permit modifications to the
landscaping requirements where topographic or other physical conditions make it
impractical to require strict compliance with these requirements.
   (I)   Enforcement of landscaping design standards.
      (1)   Prior to the issuance of a final building occupancy certificate,
all required landscape planting and irrigation shall have been installed and be
in a condition acceptable to the Planning Director.
         (a)   The plants shall be healthy and free of weeds, disease or pests;
         (b)   The irrigation system shall be properly constructed and in good
working order.
      (2)   At the discretion of the Director, the County can require financial
security, per year, to ensure the maintenance of landscape.
(Ord. 1043 § 3 (part), 2022)
§ 25.07.012 OUTDOOR LIGHTING.
   (A)   Applicability.
      (1)   Unless otherwise exempt by division (B) Exempt Lighting, all
outdoor lighting fixtures for new multifamily residential, commercial,
industrial, mixed use, and public/quasi-public uses require development review
approval by the designated approving authority pursuant to §
25.02.001 Development Review. Such approval shall be granted in conjunction
with required land use and development permits for a project.
      (2)   Any retrofit or amendment to an existing site and/or building
lighting that would have a measurable impact on abutting property or views from
street right-of-way as determined by the Planning Director shall require Minor
Development Review approval.
      (3)   All outdoor lighting shall comply with the standards in
Chapter 19.31 of the County Code. Where the standards in this section and
Chapter 19.31 conflict, the more restrictive standard shall apply.
   (B)   Exempt lighting. The following items shall be exempt from minor
development review requirements:
      (1)   All outdoor light fixtures producing light directly by the
combustion of fossil fuels, such as kerosene lanterns or gas fixtures.
      (2)   Temporary lights used for holiday decorations.
      (3)   Lighting for temporary uses and special events permitted consistent
with §
25.02.004.
   (C)   Prohibited lighting. The following types of lighting are prohibited,
except when specifically approved through development review:
      (1)   Neon or similar tubing or band lighting along buildings and/or
structures as articulation, except as approved through development review.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/fb9621aeb40cfcace25e7d8581ab7f5ecac73a18/
IMAGES/0-0-0-6665.png]
 
Neon or similar lighting as an architectural feature is prohibited unless
specifically approved through a development review approval.
      (2)   Search lights, laser source lights, or any similar high-intensity
light, except for emergency use by police or fire personnel at their
discretion, or for lighting approved by the County for a temporary event or
other purpose.
      (3)   Lighting fixtures operated in such a manner as to constitute a
hazard or danger to persons or to safe vehicular travel.
      (4)   Illumination of entire buildings, except for public, civic, and
religious buildings.
      (5)   Roof-mounted lighting except for security purposes.
      (6)   Moving, flashing, or animated lighting.
   (D)   General lighting standards. The following standards shall apply to all
outdoor lighting.
      (1)   Maintenance. Fixtures and lighting shall be maintained in good
working order and in a manner that serves the original design intent.
      (2)   Shielding. Except as otherwise exempt, all outdoor lighting shall
be constructed with full shielding and/or recessed to reduce light trespass to
adjoining properties. Each fixture shall be directed downward and away from
adjoining properties and public rights-of-way, so that no light fixture
directly illuminates an area outside of the site (see the figure below
regarding Shielding and Maximum Height of Freestanding Outdoor Light Fixtures).
      (3)   Level of illumination.
         (a)   Outdoor lighting shall be designed to illuminate as needed for
safety and security and to avoid the spillover of light onto adjacent
properties.
         (b)   Illumination standards in residential, commercial, and
industrial zones are as follows:
            1.   Parking lots, driveways, trash enclosures/areas and group
mailboxes shall be illuminated with a minimum maintained one foot-candle of
light and an average not to exceed four foot-candles of light.
            2.   Pedestrian walkways in commercial and industrial zones shall
be illuminated with a minimum maintained one-half foot-candle of light and an
average not to exceed two foot-candles of light.
            3.   Athletic facilities may exceed the specified levels of
illumination as needed. Measures shall be taken to minimize glare off-site.
      (4)   Maximum height of freestanding outdoor light fixtures. The maximum
height of freestanding outdoor light fixtures and related structures is limited
as follows:
         (a)   Eighteen feet when abutting or within 25 feet of residential
zoning district.
         (b)   No height limit for lights on public property when used to
illuminate athletic fields.
         (c)   Twenty-five feet for all other lights.
         (d)   Height shall be measured from the finish grade, inclusive of the
pedestal, to the top of the fixture.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/fb9621aeb40cfcace25e7d8581ab7f5ecac73a18/
IMAGES/0-0-0-6667.png]
 
Measuring the height of a lighting fixture.
      (5)   Energy-efficient fixtures required. Outdoor lighting shall utilize
energy-efficient fixtures and lamps as required by the Building Code and the
Green Code. Wherever feasible, solar powered fixtures shall be used.
      (6)   Accent lighting. Architectural features may be illuminated by up
lighting provided that the lamps are low intensity to produce a subtle lighting
effect and no glare or light trespass is produced. In the Hollister Municipal
Airport Influence Area, up lighting is not permitted.
      (7)   Signs. Lighting of signs shall be in compliance with the Signs
section of this title.
      (8)   Sports fields/outdoor activity areas. Where playing fields or other
special activity areas are to be illuminated, lighting fixtures shall be
mounted, aimed, and shielded so that the light falls within the primary playing
area and no significant off-site light trespass is produced. Lights shall be
turned off within one hour after the end of the event, and no later than 11:00
p.m.
      (9)   Alternative designs, materials, and installations. The designated
approving authority may grant approval of alternatives to this section as part
of a development review process.
   (E)   Outdoor lighting plans required.
      (1)   When required. A preliminary outdoor lighting plan shall be
submitted as part of each planning permit application, and a final plan shall
be submitted as part of an application for a building permit for a new
structure or an addition of 25% of the gross floor area, seating capacity, or
parking spaces. A final outdoor lighting plan is required for all new outdoor
lighting installations on commercial, mixed-use, multiunit residential,
industrial, and institutional properties. The Director may request outdoor
lighting plans from applicants for other types of projects due to location,
size, or proposed use, as necessary.
      (2)   Plan content. At a minimum, an outdoor lighting plan shall include
the following:
      (a)   Manufacturer specifications sheets, cut sheets, and other
manufacturer-provided information for all proposed outdoor light fixtures to
show fixture diagrams and outdoor light output levels;
      (b)   The proposed location, mounting height, and aiming point of all
outdoor lighting fixtures;
      (c)   If building elevations are proposed for illumination, drawings of
all relevant building elevations showing the fixtures, the portions of the
elevations to be illuminated, the illumination level of the elevations, and the
aiming point for any remote light fixture;
      (d)   Photometric data showing foot-candle readings every ten feet within
the property or site and ten feet beyond the property lines.
(Ord. 1043 § 3 (part), 2022)
§ 25.07.013 FENCES, WALLS, AND SCREENING.
   (A)   Height limits and locations.
      (1)   For residential zones, each fence, wall, and screen (including
landscaping use as a screen) shall comply with height limits and locations
shown in Table 25.07-J and the figure below.
         (a)   Maximum height may be increased by the designated approving
authority as part of development review.
         (b)   Fences, walls, and screening are not required between land uses
unless otherwise specified in this code. Fences, walls, and screening must also
be located outside of any public utility easement except as authorized by the
applicable utility agency.
Table 25.07-J
Maximum Height of Fences, Walls, and Screening in Required Yard Area for
Residential Zones
 
Location of Fence/Wall/Screen            Maximum Height
Required front yard                      4 feet
All other locations on a residential lot
or parcel except at intersections (see   6 feet
below)
At intersections of streets, alleys, and See Chapter 23.33 for required
driveways within the clear visibility    dimensions of clear visibility area
area
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/fb9621aeb40cfcace25e7d8581ab7f5ecac73a18/
IMAGES/0-0-0-6671.png]
   123
      (2)   (a)   For commercial and industrial zones, each fence, wall, and
screen (including landscaping use as a screen) shall comply with height limits
and locations shown in Table 25.07-K and the figure below.
         (b)   Maximum height may be increased by the designated approving
authority as part of development review.
Table 25.07-K
Maximum Height of Fences, Walls, and Screening in Required Yard Area for
Commercial and Industrial Zones
 
Location of Fence/Wall/Screen          Maximum Height
Required front yard                    6 feet
All other locations on a lot or parcel 8 feet
except at intersections (see below)
At intersections of streets, alleys,   Dimensions of clear visibility area and
and driveways within the clear         maximum height determined by Public
visibility area                        Works
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/fb9621aeb40cfcace25e7d8581ab7f5ecac73a18/
IMAGES/0-0-0-6673.png]
 
   (B)   Height measurement.
      (1)   Fence height shall be measured as the vertical distance between the
finished grade at the base of the fence and the top edge of the fence.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/fb9621aeb40cfcace25e7d8581ab7f5ecac73a18/
IMAGES/0-0-0-6675.png]
 
Fence height is measured to the top edge of the fence.
      (2)   The height of fencing placed atop a wall shall be measured from the
base of the wall, except as provided in division (B)(3), below.
      (3)   The height of a fence or wall shall be measured on the side facing
a public right of way or the lot or parcel adjacent to the lot or parcel of the
person(s) erecting the fence or wall, as shown in the figure below.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/fb9621aeb40cfcace25e7d8581ab7f5ecac73a18/
IMAGES/0-0-0-6677.png]
 
Fence height is measured from the side visible to the public (in the examples
above, from the adjacent street)
   (C)   Prohibited materials. The following fence materials are prohibited in
all residential, commercial, and industrial zones unless approved through a
development review or conditional use permit process for security needs (i.e.,
an industrial user) or where required by the County or state or federal law or
regulation.
      (1)   Barbed wire or electrified fence. Barbed wire and electrified
fencing are permitted in agricultural zones.
      (2)   Razor or concertina wire in conjunction with a fence or wall, or by
itself.
      (3)   Chain link fencing in a required front yard or street side yard.
   (D)   Special fencing and screening requirements. This division (D)
establishes screening standards and special provisions for walls and fencing.
      (1)   Screening.
         (a)   Screening between different land uses. The County encourages the
integration and connection of compatible uses. To that end, contiguous barriers
in the form of solid fences and walls, including soundwalls, should only be
used between land uses when residential uses are located next to industrial
uses or when necessary, as determined by the designated approving authority.
When used, the screening shall meet the following standards:
         (b)   The screen shall consist of a solid decorative wall of masonry
or similar durable material or, in lieu of decorative masonry, the wall shall
be covered with plant materials (e.g., ivy) or shall be blocked from view by
landscape materials. The wall shall be a minimum of six feet in height, shall
be architecturally treated on both sides, and shall comply with the height
limitations listed in this section;
         (c)   The decorative wall is subject to minor development review
approval;
         (d)   A landscaping strip with a minimum width of five feet shall be
installed adjacent to a screening wall, except that a minimum of six feet of
landscaping (with trees) shall be provided between a parking lot and a
screening wall;
         (e)   The designated approving authority may waive, or approve a
substitute for, the requirements above if it is determined that:
            1.   The relationship of the proposed uses makes screening
unnecessary or undesirable;
            2.   The intent of this section is successfully met by alternative
screening methods; and/or
            3.   Physical characteristics and/or constraints on the site make
required screening infeasible or unnecessary.
         (f)   Screening of mechanical equipment. Mechanical equipment shall be
screened as follows:
            1.   All exterior mechanical equipment shall be screened from view
on all sides;
            2.   Screening on top of the equipment may be required by the
designated approving authority if necessary, to protect views from a
neighboring residential zone;
            3.   Solar arrays subject to ministerial permits are exempt from
this requirement.
         (g)   Screening of roof-mounted equipment. Roof-mounted mechanical
equipment shall be screened in compliance with the following standards to
ensure that roof-mounted equipment is not visible from an adjoining parcel or
public roadway (see the illustration below):
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/fb9621aeb40cfcace25e7d8581ab7f5ecac73a18/
IMAGES/0-0-0-6679.png]
 
            1.   Screening materials may be solid concrete, wood, or other
opaque material and shall effectively screen the mechanical equipment so that
it is not visible from a public street;
            2.   The method of screening shall be architecturally compatible
with other on-site development in terms of colors, materials, and architectural
styles;
            3.   Mechanical equipment must be screened from the perspective of
the adjacent public streets, right-of-way and/or sidewalk.
         (h)   Screening of ground-mounted commercial antennas.
            1.    Ground-mounted commercial antennas shall be screened with a
fence, wall, or dense landscaping so that the antennas are less visible from
the public right-of-way and to minimize the visual impact on abutting
properties.
            2.    Building-mounted antennas shall be screened as follows:
               a.    Wall-mounted equipment shall be flush-mounted and painted
or finished to match the building, with concealed cables;
               b.    Roof-mounted equipment shall be screened from view of
public rights-of-way by locating the antenna below the roofline, parapet wall,
or other roof screen and by locating the antenna as far away as physically
feasible and aesthetically desirable from the edge of the building;
               c.    Antennas shall have subdued colors and non-reflective
materials which blend with the materials and colors of the surrounding area or
building.
         (i)   Screening of commercial loading docks and refuse areas. Loading
docks and refuse storage areas shall be screened from public view and adjoining
public streets and rights-of-way and residentially zoned areas. The method of
screening shall be architecturally compatible with other on-site development in
terms of colors, materials, and architectural style. Exceptions may be
permitted through development review for sites with unique characteristics
(e.g., shallow lot depth, adjacency to single-family unit).
         (j)   Screening of trash enclosures/recycle containers. Trash
receptacles (including recycling and green waste containers) shall not be
stored within a required front or street side yard and shall be screened from
view of the public right-of-way by a solid fence not less than four feet in
height. Exceptions to fence height standards may be granted by the designated
approving authority to ensure proper placement and screening of trash
receptacles.
         (k)   Outdoor equipment, storage, and work areas. Outdoor storage
areas for materials other than plants shall be enclosed and screened from view
from the public right-of-way and abutting property by a solid fence or wall a
minimum of six feet in height. All gates provided for ingress and egress in any
required fence or wall shall be at least six feet in height and shall be of
view-obstructing construction.
         (l)   Screening for special uses. The following uses shall be screened
from abutting properties and the public right-of-way as provided below:
            1.   Automobile dismantling. Outdoor storage areas for automobile
dismantling uses shall be screened from public view by a masonry wall no less
than six feet tall and no more than 14 feet tall. Materials and goods stored in
the yard area may not be stacked above the height of the enclosing wall. Those
portions of walls fronting onto public rights-of-way shall be buffered by a
minimum ten-foot-wide landscape area that includes a ground cover and evergreen
trees planted 30 feet on center. The wall shall be covered with either
graffiti-resistant paint or coating or with vines or other landscaping. The
design of the landscaping (e.g., irrigation, planting) shall be consistent with
the standards of the landscaping section.
            2.   Junk tire facility. Junk tires shall be stored behind a visual
screen fence no higher than eight feet tall and shall not be stacked higher
than the top of the fence. Fences shall be required between a licensed junk
tire facility and any adjoining parcel which has a more restrictive land use
zoning designation.
            3.   Potable water storage facility. Potable water storage
facilities shall be enclosed by a six-foot-tall solid masonry wall and buffered
from the public right-of-way by a minimum ten-foot-wide landscape planter that
includes ground cover and evergreen trees planted 30 feet on center. The
masonry wall shall be covered in either graffiti-resistant paint or coating or
with vines or other landscaping. The design of the landscaping (e.g.,
irrigation, planting) shall be consistent with the standards of §
25.07.011(F).
            4.   Service stations. Service stations shall be screened from
abutting residential zoning districts and uses by a solid six -foot masonry
wall along the property line between the service station and the abutting
property, except that within the first 25 feet from the street right-of-way
line said wall shall not exceed two and one-half feet in height.
      (2)   Special fencing.
         (a)   Retaining walls. An embankment to be retained that is over 48
inches in height shall be benched so at the low side no individual retaining
wall exceeds a height of 36 inches above the finished grade and each bench has
a minimum depth of 36 inches.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/fb9621aeb40cfcace25e7d8581ab7f5ecac73a18/
IMAGES/0-0-0-6681.png]
 
Retaining walls more than 48 inches high shall be stepped as shown above.
         (b)   Swimming pools, spas, and similar features. Swimming pools/spas
and other similar water features shall be fenced in compliance with the adopted
Building Code.
         (c)   Temporary fencing. Temporary fencing may be required by the
designated approving authority where necessary to protect trees or other
sensitive features and the general public from construction activities during
site preparation and construction. Temporary fencing shall be removed after 90
days once construction is complete.
         (d)   Temporary security fencing. Temporary security fencing
(including chain link) with a maximum height of six feet may be installed
around the property lines of vacant property with approval from the County.
(Ord. 1043 § 3 (part), 2022)
§ 25.07.014 REFUSE AND RECYCLING AREAS.
   (A)   General requirements.
      (1)   In accordance with the California Solid Waste Reuse and Recycling
Access Act of 1991 (Cal. Public Resources Code §§ 42900 through 42911), any
project for which an application for a building permit is submitted after the
effective date of this ordinance, shall include adequate, accessible areas for
collecting and loading refuse and recyclable materials. These regulations apply
to refuse and recycling areas not accessible to the public, and which are used
exclusively by the tenants/owners of the development site.
      (2)   In accordance with the California Waste Management Act of 1989
(Cal. Public Resources Code §§ 40050 through 40063) and County Code §
15.01.020, areas for recycling shall be adequate in capacity, number, and
distribution to serve the development where the project occurs. These areas
shall be located within, or as close as possible to, planned or existing
exterior collection areas/enclosures.
   (B)   Applicability. The provisions of this section apply to all development
except the following:
      (1)   Any project for which a building permit is not required from the
San Benito County Planning Department;
      (2)   All permits not related to the interior improvement of a building
excluding new structures; and
   (C)   Size and location. Refuse, including organic waste and fats, oils, and
grease, and recycling collection areas shall be sized and located as provided
below. Additional storage area and alternative designs may be required based on
the types and quantities of materials to be generated by the proposed land use
and the mode of collection. Additional design requirements may be applied for
the purposes of preventing stormwater pollution discharges.
      (1)   Size and number. Refuse collection areas shall be adequate in
capacity, number, and distribution to accommodate all trash, garbage,
recyclables, and any other waste until such items are picked up by the County
or its contracted collector.
      (2)   Location.
         (a)   Refuse areas shall be located outside required yard and setback,
parking or landscaped areas, or any other area required to be constructed or
maintained unencumbered according to fire codes and other applicable building
and public safety laws.
         (b)   Enclosures shall be located a minimum of ten feet from any
structure, 25 feet from any public street, 15 feet from the edge of pavement of
a private street and, in commercial areas, 25 feet from any residential zoned
property line. Placement of enclosures within these areas may be approved as
part of a development review.
         (c)   Collection areas shall be no more than 250 feet from each living
unit within a residential development.
   (D)   Security and function design measures.
      (1)   Enclosure required. Exterior collection areas must be within an
enclosure that meets the following standards.
         (a)   Minimum height. Five feet.
         (b)   Design. The enclosure shall be designed to architecturally
integrate with the adjacent building structure(s).
         (c)   Exterior collection areas must be within an enclosure
constructed of solid concrete or masonry wall.
         (d)   Concrete curbs, bollard, or wheel stops shall be installed or
constructed inside the enclosure to prevent bins from damaging the enclosure.
      (2)   Enclosure gates. The primary collection access point must be
screened with a gate a minimum of five feet in height, made of steel or
approved equivalent and detached from masonry, which is locked continuously
except on collection days.
         (a)   Enclosure gates must have a four-inch clearance off the finished
pad or apron and surrounding curbs.
         (b)   Gates in the opened position shall not infringe on the traffic
aisles and open to at least 135 degrees when secured open.
         (c)   Hardware should be of enough strength to accommodate repetitive
swinging.
         (d)   Gated opening for ingress/egress of bins must be a minimum of 16
feet wide with no posts in the middle, place gate posts outside this span to
avoid reducing the span.
         (e)   Gates must always remain closed except when being serviced by
waste hauler.
         (f)   Gate doors shall be provided a means to secure the doors both
opened and closed, e.g., cane bolt w/sleeve and slide latch between doors and
sleeve in pavement. The bolts should be a minimum one-half inch diameter and
the sleeves for both should be a minimum of one inch or double the size of the
bolt to allow flexibility.
      (3)   Protection from bins and vehicles. To prevent damage to the
enclosure from bins or vehicles, the enclosure shall have bollards, painted to
match adjacent wall (façade) color inside the enclosure, or interior concrete
curbing, a minimum of six-inch-high and six-inch-deep, or wheel stops set a
minimum of six inches from each wall.
      (4)   Covers. The refuse and recyclable materials in exterior collection
areas shall be protected from the rain by a roof over the collection area or by
use of covered receptacles/containers within the collection areas. Lids must
always remain closed except when loading or unloading.
   (E)   Access requirements. The storage area for refuse and recyclable
materials must be accessible to pedestrians (both residents and/or employees)
of the development site and to refuse and recycling haulers. Vehicle access
requirements are as follows:
      (1)   Driveways or travel aisles leading to exterior collection areas or
enclosures shall be a minimum of sixteen feet in width and paved in accordance
with this title’s paving requirements.
      (2)   Driveways or travel aisles shall provide unobstructed paved access
for collection vehicles and provide a minimum of 15 feet vertical clearance. In
loading areas, minimum overhead vertical clearance shall be 25 feet for loading
operations.
      (3)   (a)   A concrete apron or pad, having a minimum size of ten feet
wide by 20 feet long, shall be constructed in front of each exterior collection
area or enclosure or at the point of pick-up by the collection vehicle. The
purpose of this pad is to prevent damage to the surrounding asphalt paving. The
pad shall have a level surface (no slope) and shall be paved with concrete.
         (b)   The Director may waive the requirement for, and/or size of, the
concrete apron or pad provided the property owner can demonstrate that the
existing asphalt located at the access and servicing areas of the refuse and
recycling enclosure has withstood on-going, regular use without appreciable
degradation. The property owner may also be required to enter into a private
road agreement with the County as a condition to proving service.
   (F)   Signage.
      (1)   Signs shall be posted on each container for recyclable material,
identifying which material shall be disposed of in that container.
      (2)   One sign identifying each outdoor refuse and recycling area is
required. Each sign shall not exceed four square feet and shall be posted on
the exterior of the area adjacent to the access point. The sign shall also
notify the public that unauthorized collection and/or scavenging is prohibited.
   (G)   Exceptions. The Director shall have the authority to approve
exceptions, or consider modified design standards, to the requirements of this
section, for new development projects and projects involving the expansion or
retrofit of an existing development. The property owner/applicant must first
prove that he/she cannot meet the requirements for the refuse and recycling
collections area as set forth in this section and any other applicable section.
      (1)   Reasons for exceptions. Exceptions may be approved for reasons
including, but not limited to, the following:
         (a)   The requirement to provide adequate space for refuse and
recyclable materials storage and collection would necessitate the conversion or
removal of required parking spaces or required landscaping, or would conflict
with some other essential site improvement required by the County;
         (b)   The nature of the proposed development justifies the provision
of less recyclable materials storage and collection space than mandated by this
chapter; or
         (c)   Construction of the full enclosure with the landscaping buffer
would reduce the vehicular access aisle to less than acceptable width. Cost
alone is not a valid reason for granting an exception.
      (2)   Required findings. Exceptions from any provision of this section
may be approved if the following findings can be made:
         (a)   That the exception from these requirements will not be
detrimental to public health, safety, or welfare nor result in a nuisance; and
         (b)   That the project will provide adequate capacity, number and
distribution of collection areas to serve the new or existing development.
(Ord. 1043 § 3 (part), 2022)
§ 25.07.015 OUTDOOR STORAGE AND DISPLAY.
   (A)   Applicability. Outdoor activities in residential, commercial, and
industrial zones shall be subject to the requirements of this section.
   (B)   Exempt outdoor activities.
      (1)   Outdoor activities associated with a permitted or conditionally
permitted use in any agricultural or public/quasi public zone are exempt from
the requirements of this section.
      (2)   Per §
25.02.005 of this code, garage and yard sales are exempt from this section.
   (C)   Outdoor activities permitted.
      (1)   Permanent outdoor display and sales. Permanent outdoor displays and
sales are permitted per the allowable uses noted in Table 25.03-F of
Chapter 25.03.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/fb9621aeb40cfcace25e7d8581ab7f5ecac73a18/
IMAGES/0-0-0-6687.png]
 
Permanent outdoor sales are permitted per
Chapter 25.03, but are prohibited in some zones.
      (2)   Temporary outdoor display and sales. Temporary outdoor display and
sales shall require the issuance of a temporary use permit.
      (3)   Permanent outdoor storage.  Permanent outdoor storage is permitted
per the allowed use table, Table 25.03-F.
      (4)   Temporary outdoor storage. Temporary outdoor storage shall require
the issuance of a temporary use permit when it meets the requirements in §
25.02.004.
      (5)   Storage of construction materials and equipment as part of an
active construction site are exempt from the requirement for a use permit,
provided a valid building permit or improvement permit is in effect and the
materials and equipment are stored on the construction site pursuant to
approved permit(s).
   (D)   Standards for outdoor display, sales and storage.
      (1)   General development standards for all activities. The following
development standards apply to all outdoor display, sales, and storage
activities.
         (a)   Location. Outdoor activities shall not be located within any
public right-of-way (unless an encroachment permit has been issued), in
required parking spaces, or within designed vehicle drive aisles, or within
required landscape planter areas. Outdoor activities may also not disrupt or
impede required pedestrian circulation paths as required by the Building Code.
         (b)   Hours of operation. Except as otherwise provided, hours of
active operation for outdoor activities shall be the same as those for the
corresponding primary use;
         (c)   Noise. Any noise generated by the outdoor activity shall be
consistent with the County’s Noise Ordinance,
Chapter 19.39 of the County Code;
         (d)   Signs. No additional business identification or advertising
signs for the outdoor activity may be permitted above the maximum allowable
sign area for the corresponding primary use, except when the outdoor activity
is the primary use (e.g., Christmas tree lot).
         (e)   Maintenance. Outdoor activity areas shall be kept free of
garbage and other debris.
      (2)   Standards for outdoor display and sales. The following development
standards shall apply to all permanent and temporary outdoor display and sales
activities.
         (a)   Associated with the primary use. All outdoor display and sales
activities shall be associated with the primary use of the property. Only those
goods and services associated with the primary use may be stored, sold, or
displayed. All outdoor display and sales activities that are independent of the
primary use shall be considered their own primary use and regulated as such
(e.g., seasonal sales as a temporary use requiring a temporary use permit).
         (b)   Maximum area. Unless otherwise approved in conjunction with
development permits, the area used for permanent outdoor display and sales of
materials shall not exceed 10% of the gross floor area of the corresponding
commercial building. Vehicle and equipment sales and rentals (e.g., automobile,
boat, RV, construction equipment, etc., provided storage and display is limited
to vehicles offered for sale or rental only) are specifically exempt from this
requirement, provided all other development standards are satisfied.
         (c)   Time limit for temporary activities. See the provisions of §§
25.02.004 and
25.02.005 for temporary use and temporary event permits for duration and permit
requirements for temporary promotional sales.
      (3)   Standards for outdoor storage. The following development standards
shall apply to all permanent and temporary outdoor storage activities.
         (a)   Location. Outdoor storage may not be located within any front or
street side yard.
         (b)   Height limitation. The height of stacked materials and goods
shall be no greater than that of any building, wall, fence, or gate enclosing
the storage area.
         (c)   Screening. Screening of outdoor storage shall be consistent with
the provisions of the Fences, Walls and Screens section of this title.
(Ord. 1043 § 3 (part), 2022)
§ 25.07.016 SIGNS.
   (A)   Purpose. The purposes of this article are to:
      (1)   Serve the public interests in aesthetics and safety;
      (2)   Ensure through the regulation of signage that the integrity and
nature of residential, agricultural, resource protection, public, commercial
and industrial areas are protected from the indiscriminate and inappropriate
proliferation of signs;
      (3)   Ensure adequate opportunity for persons to exercise their right of
free speech by display of signs;
      (4)   Provide sufficient opportunities for identification of businesses,
establishments, and residences;
      (5)   Provide for signage which is informative in nature;
      (6)   Protect and preserve the character of residential areas by
prohibiting commercial signage in such areas, except as required by state law
or applicable judicial decisions; and
      (7)   Establish procedures to allow the continued use, maintenance and
repair of nonconforming historic signs that preserve locally recognized values
of community appearance or that reflect unique characteristics of development.
   (B)   Definitions. The following terms are used in this section. These terms
are defined in the Glossary in
Chapter 25.09 of this Title.
      (1)   Banner.
      (2)   Beacon.
      (3)   Billboard.
      (4)   Building Marker.
      (5)   Change of Copy.
      (6)   Commercial Mascot.
      (7)   Commercial Message.
      (8)   Construction Sign.
      (9)   Director.
      (10)   Election Period.
      (11)   Establishment.
      (12)   Flag Sign.
      (13)   Freestanding Sign.
      (14)   General Advertising.
      (15)   Marquee Sign.
      (16)   Non-Commercial Sign.
      (17)   Off-Site Sign.
      (18)   On-Site Sign.
      (19)   Pennant.
      (20)   Permit.
      (21)   Person.
      (22)   Portable Sign.
      (23)   Principal Building.
      (24)   Real Estate Sign.
      (25)   Setback.
      (26)   Sign.
      (27)   Soffit.
      (28)   Street Frontage.
      (29)   Structure Mounted Sign.
      (30)   Temporary Sign.
   (C)   General regulations. This section applies to all signs and procedures
within the regulatory scope of this article and to all provisions of this
article and overrides more specific provisions to the contrary.
      (1)   Compliance and permits. All signs within the regulatory scope of
this article shall conform to the provisions of this article. No person shall
erect, place, display or maintain any sign in violation of this article. A
permit shall be required for any sign identified as requiring an administrative
or use permit, unless the sign is expressly exempted from the permit required
by a provision within this article.
      (2)   Message neutrality. It is the County’s policy and intent to
regulate signs in a manner which is consistent with the speech freedoms of both
the United States and California Constitutions. Notwithstanding the remaining
sections in this chapter, this chapter shall in all instances be administered
and enforced to be consistent with the law established by the Supreme Court in
Reed v. Town of Gilbert, 573 U.S. 957 (2014). The RMA Director is authorized to
grant administrative variances as necessary to ensure that this chapter is
administered in a manner consistent with Reed v. Town of Gilbert. Furthermore,
no enforcement of this chapter shall occur without the RMA Director’s review
and approval that such enforcement would not be impermissibly content based and
would be consistent with federal and state constitutions and laws. The sign
ordinance may be further changed as a result of the Reed v. Town of Gilbert
case at a future date. All new signs shall be placed at owner’s risk of future
sign ordinance changes. This following notice shall be placed on all sign
permits issued by the County:
      “The county’s sign ordinance is under review. Should the sign ordinance
be changed in the future to not permit the sign issued under this permit, it
may be required to be removed without an amortization period. All new signs
shall be placed at owner’s risk of future ordinance changes.”
      (3)   Message substitution.
         (a)   A non-commercial message may be substituted, in whole or in
part, for any allowed commercial message or any non-commercial message,
provided that the sign itself is legal without consideration of message
content.
         (b)   Any unused allowance for signage may be used for temporary
display of any non-commercial message. When the new sign qualifies as a
structure requiring a building permit pursuant to Title 21 of the County Code,
a building permit must be obtained prior to construction or placement of the
sign.
         (c)   Substitution of any message may be made without any additional
approval or permitting. The substitution right is on-going and continuous and
may be utilized an unlimited number of times.
         (d)   This section does not:
            1.   Create a right to exceed the total amount of permanent signage
on a site or parcel;
            2.   Create a right to substitute an off-site commercial message in
place of an on-site commercial message, or in place of a non-commercial
message;
            3.   Affect the requirement that sign structure or mounting device
be properly permitted; or
            4.   Authorize changing the physical method of message display
without any required permit.
      (4)   Change of copy. For permanent signs that are attached to or mounted
on real property, a new permit is not required for a change of copy. However,
if a change of copy also includes a physical change to the structure or
mounting device, then the change is subject to any applicable permit
requirement as if it were a new sign. This provision does not modify or affect
the law of fixtures, sign-related provisions in private leases regarding signs
(so long as they are not in conflict with this chapter or other law), or the
ownership of sign structures.
      (5)   Billboards. The construction, erection or use of any and all
billboards as defined herein, other than those which legally exist in the
county, or for which a valid permit has been issued and has not expired, as of
the date on which this provision, or when a prior version of this article
containing a provision to the same effect, was adopted, is prohibited. The
“change of copy” provision applies to properly permitted, legally existing
billboards. To the extent consistent with state law, existing legal billboards
may not be converted to a more visually intense method of image presentation,
such as converting a flat static display to a moving animated or change image
display. This prohibition does not prohibit or limit agreements to relocate
presently existing legal billboards, as encouraged by state law including, but
not limited to, Cal. Business and Professions Code § 5412.
      (6)   Property owner’s consent. No sign may be displayed on private
tangible property or other regulated land without the property owner’s consent.
      (7)   On-site/off-site distinction. The on-site/off-site distinction
applies only to commercial messages and signs displaying commercial messages.
      (8)   Mixed uses. For purposes of this article, wherever a parcel may be
legally used for both residential and non-residential uses, all legal
residential uses shall be treated as if they were located within a residential
district, which would allow a residential unit of the same type (i.e., single
family residence and/or multi-family residence), and all legal non-residential
uses shall be treated is if they were located in a non-residential district
allowing non-residential uses of the same type.
      (9)   Temporary signs. Temporary signs on private property shall be
allowed only upon the issuance of a temporary sign permit, which shall be
subject to the following requirements:
         (a)   Term. A temporary sign permit shall allow the use of a temporary
sign for a specified 100-day period.
         (b)   Application. Applicant shall obtain a temporary sign permit
prior to placement of signs.
         (c)   Submittal. Application shall include location of sign(s), image
or sketch of sign, time period for which the sign shall be in place and the
signature of the applicant and owner(s) on the property or properties in which
the sign(s) shall be placed.
         (d)   Deposit. A security deposit for each sign shall be made
available at the time of application for the temporary sign permit. The
security deposit will be returned if evidence that the sign(s) have been
removed the day after the 30-day time period. Should the sign(s) not be removed
within the required time period, the deposit will cover costs for county staff
to remove the sign(s).
         (e)   Size. Temporary signs shall not exceed 32 square feet in size.
      (10)   All signs, banners, beacons, billboards, markers, and pennants
shall comply with all applicable federal, state and local laws. No advertising
displays, including but not limited to signs and billboards, may be placed or
maintained in violation of state or federal law, including but not limited to
the State of California’s Outdoor Advertising Act. If any provision of the San
Benito County Code conflicts with the State of California’s Outdoor Advertising
Act, state law shall prevail, except to the extent that this §
25.07.016 of Chapter 25.07 lawfully sets forth a restriction or requirement
equal to or greater than that imposed by state law as allowed by Cal. Business
and Professions Code §§ 5230 through 5231.
   (D)   Regulations applicable to all signs.
      (1)   Permit required. Permits are required as described in this article.
A building permit is required for any sign that meets the definition of a
structure requiring a building permit pursuant to Title 21 of the County Code.
      (2)   Glare. When allowed, lighting of signs attached to structures shall
be arranged so as not to produce a glare on other properties in the vicinity,
and the source of light shall not be visible from adjacent properties or a
public street.
      (3)   General development plan. In addition to the regulation in this
article, signs in commercial and industrial zoning districts are also subject
to the general development plan provisions of the zoning district. A general
development plan may establish a sign program that modifies size and location
regulations, found in this article, for the applicable property; however,
aggregate size limitations for the property shall not be modified by a general
development plan. If a general development plan is not required, signs shall
conform to this article.
      (4)   Height. Signs may be attached to a structure providing the sign
does not project above the peak of the roof of the structure or above the
parapet of the wall and are in conformance with all other applicable provisions
of this article.
      (5)   Mounting. Signs may be mounted below the soffit of a canopy,
overhanging, or porch and may be perpendicular to the structure providing that
they do not exceed 12 inches below the soffit or beam and maintain a minimum of
eight feet vertical clearance along corridors or exit courts below.
      (6)   Setback. Signs shall meet the rear and side yard setback
requirements of the applicable zoning district. Front yard setback shall meet
the following requirements:
         (a)   Driveway and corner visibility. All signs shall be maintained in
accordance with the provisions of this division. Signs shall not be located
such that:
            1.   They interfere with safe sight distances for vehicular,
bicycle, or pedestrian traffic;
            2.   They conflict with overhead utility lines, overhead lights, or
walkway lights; or
            3.   They block pedestrian or bicycle ways.
         (b)   Visibility at street corners and driveways connecting with a
public street shall be maintained as an area of unrestricted visibility as
follows:
            1.   For street corners. That area between three feet and ten feet
above the driveway grade which lies 25 feet from the intersection of the street
rights-of-way measured along both the right-of-way lines;
            2.   For driveways. That area between three feet and ten feet above
the driveway grade which lies 15 feet from the intersection of the edge of the
driveway and the property line measured along both the driveway and the
property line;
            3.   Exceptions. The Director of Planning and Building may allow
exceptions to the unrestricted visibility for street corners and driveways,
following a determination by the Public Works Administrator that such
exceptions will not adversely affect sign distance or pose a hazard to motorist
and pedestrians.
   (E)   Rules for computation of sign area.
      (1)   The area of a sign is computed by multiplying the height by the
length of the sign, not including framework of the sign. The base or supporting
structure of a sign shall not be considered part of the sign unless it is part
of the message presentation.
      (2)   The area of a two-sided back-to-back sign shall be computed by
determining the area of only one side.
      (3)   The area of a two-sided or multi-faced sign, where the signs are
not flat back-to-back, shall be computed by multiplying the height by the
length of each sign face.
      (4)   The area of signs which are composed of letters individually
mounted or painted on a structure, without a border or frame enclosure, shall
be computed from the smallest single parallelogram in which all the letters or
words can be enclosed.
      (5)   Time and temperature displays are considered part of the allowable
sign display area and are subject to the same size and height rules as other
aspects of a sign.
      (6)   For establishments providing services to customers while in their
vehicles, signs related to such services are allowed, but are counted in the
aggregate allowed signage for the use. Drive-through establishment menu boards
shall not be included in this calculation.
   (F)   Residential zoning sign regulations.
      (1)   Applicability. These regulations apply for commercial and non-
commercial signs in the following zoning districts:
         (a)   Single-Family Residential (R-1).
         (b)   Multi-Family Residential (RM).
         (c)   Planned-Unit Development (PUD).
      (2)   Scope. In the zones subject to this section, the following sign
types are allowed without permits, unless otherwise stated.
         (a)   Nameplates and street address signs. These signs, when attached
to or freestanding adjacent to the residential unit shall not exceed four
square feet. If such sign is freestanding, then the height limit is six feet.
If the sign is attached to a building, then the sign may not project above the
roof line or parapet or a wall. One such sign is allowed per street frontage.
         (b)   Real estate signs.
            1.   On site.
               a.   The sign area will not exceed seven square feet.
               b.   The height may not exceed six feet if freestanding. If
attached to a structure, the sign may not be higher than the roof line or
parapet of the wall.
               c.   The signs shall not be located within any road right-of-
way.
               d.   The signs shall not utilize banners, balloons, lights, or
other similar attention getting devices.
            2.   Projects under construction.
               a.    Construction signs may be displayed during the time period
which begins with the issuance of the first necessary permit to start
construction. The sign may remain no later than:
                  i.    The time of occupancy for the project;
                  ii.    At the time, a notice of completion or notice of
acceptance is issued; or
                  iii.    In the case of new housing development when the sale
closes on the last available unit.
               b.    Construction signs are subject to the following standards:
                  i.    There shall be no more than two temporary construction
signs per lot.
                  ii.    The signs shall not exceed 24 square feet in area.
                  iii.    The signs shall not be illuminated.
                  iv.    The height shall not exceed six feet if freestanding,
or if attached to a structure, the sign may not be higher than the roof line or
parapet of the wall.
                  v.    The signs shall be stationary.
                  vi.    The signs shall not be located within or project over
into any public right-of-way.
            3.   Clustered residential signs. Apartment complexes, mobile home
parks, residential condominium project and other clustered or multi-unit
residential developments are permitted signs, subject to:
               a.    There shall be no more than one sign per street frontage
or two signs if the project has only one street frontage.
               b.   The signs shall not exceed 35 square feet per street
frontage, except stated in division (F)(2)(b)4.c. below.
               c.   The height shall not exceed six feet if freestanding, or if
attached to a structure, the sign may not be higher than the roof line or
parapet of the wall.
               d.   The signs shall be stationary.
               e.   The signs shall not be located within or project over or
into any public right-of-way.
               f.   If the street frontage exceeds 300 feet on any street, one
sign per 150 feet of frontage shall be allowed; these signs are limited to 64
square feet per frontage with no single sign exceeding 35 square feet.
            4.    Appurtenant signs for non-residential uses in residential
zones. Except as regulated elsewhere in Title 25, signs that are appurtenant to
any allowed, non-residential use in any residential zone, not including
construction signs and signs on clustered residential projects, may be
displayed, subject to:
               a.    Maximum number and area. One sign up to 24 square feet is
allowed. An additional two signs (single or double-faced), with a maximum
display area of up to 75 square feet in the aggregate may be allowed subject to
a sign permit in each case.
               b.    Maximum height. The height may not exceed six feet if
freestanding, or if attached to a structure, the sign may not be higher than
the roof line or parapet of the wall.
               c.   The following signs are subject to a use permit:
                  i.    Real estate/sale advertisement. Signs over 100 square
feet for advertising the sale of parcels in a subdivision. Limit of two signs
in each case.
                  ii.    Signs for non-residential uses in residential zones.
Signs over 75 square feet, and appurtenant to any allowed use, provided that
the area permitted may be divided into not more than three single-faced or
double-faced signs.
   (G)   Agricultural and rural zoning district sign regulations.
      (1)   Applicability. These regulations apply for all signs in the
following zoning districts:
         (a)   Agricultural Rangeland (AR).
         (b)   Agricultural Productive (AP).
         (c)   Rural (R).
         (d)   Rural Transitional (RT).
         (e)   Rural Residential (RR).
      (2)   Scope. In the zones subject to this section, the following sign
types are allowed without permits, unless otherwise stated.
      (3)   Nameplates and street address signs. These signs, when attached to
or freestanding adjacent to the residential unit shall not exceed four square
feet. If such sign is freestanding, then the height limit is six feet. If the
sign is attached to a building, then the sign may not project above the roof
line or parapet or a wall. One such sign is allowed per street frontage.
      (4)   Real estate signs.
         (a)   On site:
            1.   The sign area will not exceed seven square feet.
            2.   The height may not exceed six feet if freestanding. If
attached to a structure, the sign may not be higher than the roof line or
parapet of the wall.
            3.   The signs shall not be located within any road right-of-way.
            4.   The signs shall not utilize banners, balloons, lights, or
other similar attention getting devices.
      (5)   Projects under construction.
         (a)   Construction signs may be displayed during the time period which
begins with the issuance of the first necessary permit to start construction.
The sign may remain no later than:
            1.   The time of occupancy for the project;
            2.   At the time, a notice of completion or notice of acceptance is
issued; or
            3.   In the case of new housing development when the sale closes on
the last available unit.
         (b)   Construction signs are subject to the following standards:
            1.   There shall be no more than two temporary construction signs
per lot.
            2.   The signs shall not exceed 24 square feet in area.
            3.   The signs shall not be illuminated.
            4.   The height shall not exceed six feet if freestanding, or if
attached to a structure, the sign may not be higher than the roof line or
parapet of the wall.
            5.   The signs shall be stationary.
            6.   The signs shall not be located within or project over into any
public right-of-way.
      (6)   Clustered residential signs. Apartment complexes, mobile home
parks, residential condominium project and other clustered or multi-unit
residential developments are permitted signs, subject to:
         (a)   There shall be no more than one sign per street frontage or two
signs if the project has only one street frontage.
         (b)   The signs shall not exceed 35 square feet per street frontage,
except stated in divisions (G)(7) and (G)(8), below.
         (c)   The height shall not exceed six feet if freestanding, or if
attached to a structure, the sign may not be higher than the roof line or
parapet of the wall.
         (d)   The signs shall be stationary.
         (e)   The signs shall not be located within or project over or into
any public right-of-way.
         (f)   If the street frontage exceeds 300 feet on any street, one sign
per 150 feet of frontage shall be allowed; these signs are limited to 64 square
feet per frontage with no single sign exceeding 35 square feet.
         (g)   For non-residential uses, signs not over 20 square feet and
appurtenant to any permitted use except for those signs provided in divisions
(G)(3) Nameplates and street address signs, and (G)(4) Real estate signs,
above.
      (7)   The following signs are subject to a sign permit:
         (a)   Real estate/sale advertisement. Signs over 100 square feet for
advertising the sale of or identification of products grown or legally produced
on the property. Limit of two signs in each case.
         (b)   Except as provided in divisions (G)(5) Projects under
construction, and (G)(6) Clustered residential signs, above, signs between 20
and 75 square feet appurtenant to any allowed use; provided, that the use is
permitted may be divided into not more than three single-faced or double-faced
signs.
      (8)   A use permit is required for signs between 75 and 300 square feet,
appurtenant to any allowed use, provided that the area permitted may be divided
into not more than three single-faced or double-faced signs.
   (H)   Commercial and industrial zoning district sign regulations.
      (1)   Applicability. These regulations apply to commercial and non-
commercial signs in the following zoning districts:
         (a)   Commercial Thoroughfare (C-1).
         (b)   Neighborhood Commercial (C-2).
         (c)   Business Park (BP).
         (d)   Light Industrial (M-1).
         (e)   Heavy Industrial (M-2).
      (2)   Scope. In the zones subject to this section, the following sign
types are allowed without permits, unless otherwise stated.
      (3)   Nameplates and street address signs. These signs, when attached to
or freestanding adjacent to the residential unit shall not exceed four square
feet. If such sign is freestanding, then the height limit is six feet. If the
sign is attached to a building, then the sign may not project above the roof
line or parapet or a wall. One such sign is allowed per street frontage.
      (4)   Real estate signs.
         (a)   On site:
            1.   The sign area will not exceed seven square feet.
            2.   The height may not exceed six feet if freestanding. If
attached to a structure, the sign
may not be higher than the roof line or parapet of the wall.
            3.   The signs shall not be located within any road right-of-way.
            4.   The signs shall not utilize banners, balloons, lights, or
other similar attention getting devices.
      (5)   Projects under construction.
         (a)   Construction signs may be displayed during the time period which
begins with the issuance of the first necessary permit to start construction.
The sign may remain no later than:
            1.   The time of occupancy for the project;
            2.   At the time, a notice of completion or notice of acceptance is
issued; or
            3.   In the case of new housing development, when the sale closes
on the last available unit.
         (b)   Construction signs are subject to the following standards:
            1.   There shall be no more than two temporary construction signs
per lot.
            2.   The signs shall not exceed 24 square feet in area.
            3.   The signs shall not be illuminated.
            4.   The height shall not exceed six feet if freestanding, or if
attached to a structure, the sign may not be higher than the roof line or
parapet of the wall.
            5.   The signs shall be stationary.
            6.   The signs shall not be located within or project over into any
public right-of-way.
      (6)   Sign area. Signs shall be permitted to have an area not to exceed
one square foot for each one foot of structure frontage; provided, that any
business establishment shall be allowed a sign of a minimum 50 square feet and
no more than 300 square feet; and further provided, that the area permitted may
be divided into not more than six single-faced or double-faced signs; said
formula shall apply to each street frontage.
         (a)   A sign permit is required for real estate signs between seven
and 32 square feet. The height may not exceed six feet if freestanding, or if
attached to a structure, the sign may not be higher than the roof line of or
parapet of the wall.
         (b)   The following signs are subject to a use permit:
      (7)   Real estate/sale advertisement. Signs over 100 square feet for the
advertising the sale of parcels in a subdivision. Limit of two signs in each
case.
   (I)   Signs within a designated scenic highway. For sign regulations near
designated scenic highways, see §
25.08.027 of this title.
   (J)   Exempt signs. The following signs are exempt from permit requirements,
subject to the rules stated in this section:
      (1)   Traffic control and safety signs, including those on roads and
highways, waterways, airports, and at railroad crossings.
      (2)   Signs required or authorized by federal, state or county law or
authority, including but not limited to all legally required public notices,
court orders, and announcements authorized by courts and public officials.
      (3)   Images that are painted on or attached to the surface of an
automobile, truck, airplane or boat, in motion, idle or parked temporarily in a
designated parking space; and that do not constitute general advertising or
advertising for hire.
      (4)   Signs that provide functional information and warning about
utilities and safety matters, including but not limited to telephone access,
entrance and exit, danger-high voltage, dump stations, restroom identification,
brake and smog certification, smoking and dress code rules, traffic and parking
directions, gasoline grades, and the like, provided that such signs do not
exceed four square feet in display surface area each.
      (5)   Signs prohibiting trespassing and hunting, provided that they do
not exceed two square feet in area each.
      (6)   Advertising signs on buses and taxis in motion, idle or parked
temporarily in a designated parking space.
      (7)   Directional, warning or identification signs not exceeding two
square feet in area for petroleum drilling and extraction activities.
   (K)   Prohibited signs. The following signs are prohibited in all zoning
districts:
      (1)   Any sign or device which is an imitation of or resembles an
official traffic control device or which attempts to direct the movement
contrary to the rules set by traffic officials, or which hides from view any
official traffic control device.
      (2)   Advertising signs that include the words “Stop,” “Look,” “Listen,”
or any other word, phrase, symbol, lights, motion, sound, fumes, mist, or other
effluent that may interfere with, mislead, or confuse the driving public.
      (3)   Permanent structure signs which rotate, move, present moving images
or the illusion thereof or flashes, scintillates, or utilizes animated
illumination.
      (4)   Devices which are inflatable or activated by wind, air, forced gas,
whether free floating or tethered to the ground, and which are used for
commercial advertising messages. This rule does not apply to inflatable
gymnasiums used for parties, or to displays used in parties.
      (5)   Moving or rotating signs, pennants, or banners.
      (6)   Signs extending above roofs, and roof signs, except where
specifically provided for under the provisions of this article for signs
attached to structures.
      (7)   Any other advertising device attached to a structure, fence, pole,
or vehicle on display not specifically authorized by this article.
   (L)   Special sign regulations.
      (1)   Electronic time and temperature signs as part of an allowed on-site
sign are allowed as regulated by this article as to height and size.
      (2)   Exit, entrance, or other on-site traffic directional signs are
allowed, provided that the signs do not exceed six feet in height and contain
no advertising or message other than for traffic directions. Signs may be
attached to a structure providing the sign does not project above the roof of
the structure.
      (3)   Special signing required for drive-in windows for drive-in
restaurants, banks or similar businesses are permitted, provided the sign copy
is necessary for information, instruction, or directions and is specifically
related to the special use.
   (M)   Non-conforming signs. Existing signs that are rendered non-conforming
by this article shall be subject as follows:
      (1)   The enlargement, extension, reconstruction or structural alteration
of a non-conforming sign may be allowed if the enlargement, extension,
reconstruction or structural alteration conforms to all regulations of the
district in which it is located.
      (2)   Ordinary maintenance and repairs, including structural repairs and
foundations, may be made to any sign which is non-conforming as to height or
setbacks or to a sign used for a legal non-conforming use, provided:
         (a)   No structural alterations are made; and
         (b)   Such work does not exceed 50% of the estimated replacement cost
of the structure in a one-year period. Additional maintenance and repair in a
one-year period is allowable subject to the issuance of a use permit in each
case.
      (3)   No legal non-conforming sign shall be moved in whole or in part to
any other location unless every portion of such sign which is moved is made to
conform to all the regulations of the district in which it is located.
      (4)   Notwithstanding the above, no sign shall be removed by the County
of San Benito, or is otherwise required to be removed by virtue of this
chapter, until and upon such time as the County fully complies with Cal.
Business and Professions Code §§ 5412 et seq. Until such time, signs subject to
Cal. Business and Professions Code § 5412 shall have the temporary status of a
“legal non-conforming sign.”
   (N)   Sign procedures.
      (1)   Scope. This section applies to all signs that maybe erected,
maintained or displayed.
      (2)   Purpose of permitting. All permitting and approval processes
required by this article are intended to ensure compliance with this article
and various safety codes, as well as to prevent the loss of time, effort,
materials and investment which might otherwise be invested in an illegal sign.
      (3)   Application for a sign permit. Any person seeking a permit or
design approval for a sign shall submit to the Planning and Building Department
a written application for such permit for a sign permit or a use permit,
respectively. The application shall be processed according to the applicable
provisions of the County Code.
      (4)   Multiple sign applications. When an application proposes two or
more signs on one parcel, the application may be granted or denied either in
whole or in part, with separate decisions as to each proposed sign. When a
multiple sign application is denied in whole or in part, the County’s decision
shall specify the grounds for each such denial.
      (5)   Sign which is part of a large project. When approval is sought for
a development that includes one or more signs, the sign aspects of the proposed
development must satisfy the applicable provisions of this article.
      (6)   Appropriate authority. The Director of Planning and Building is
authorized and assigned the responsibility for administering all provisions of
this article.
      (7)   Right to permit or to display. When any sign permit application
complies fully with all applicable provisions of this article, and all other
applicable laws, rules and regulation, the permit shall be approved and issued,
unless a change of relevant law or policy is pending. In the case of signs that
are expressly exempt from the permit requirement, there is a right to erect,
display and maintain such signs as are authorized by this article, subject to
the applicable regulations.
      (8)   Discretionary approvals.
         (a)   When a sign is subject to a discretionary permit, discretion may
not be exercised as to the message content or graphic design of the message.
         (b)   Factors to be considered in sign decisions shall include
location of buildings, topography, vegetation, sign structures, speed of travel
on adjacent roadways, sight visibility, visibility to access ramps, scale and
mass of the sign, and the effective utility of the sign. In applying these
factors, the County shall not act as an art jury as to the graphic design on
the display face of the sign.
      (9)   Safety codes. When a sign qualifies as a structure requiring a
building permit pursuant to Title 21 of the County Code, a building permit
shall also be required.
      (10)   Application costs. The following costs shall be applied to signs
requiring a permit:
         (a)   Temporary signs. These signs shall be subject to an application
and deposit fee. The deposit amount can be collected once evidence of the
temporary sign(s) have been removed by the date indicated on the application.
If the sign(s) have not been removed by the date indicated on the application,
then the deposit covers the cost of removal of the sign by county staff.
         (b)   Sign permits. A deposit shall be provided upon submittal of the
application. Any reimbursement of the deposit shall be made at issuance of the
notice of decision. Planning staff’s hourly rate is provided in Ordinance 833,
adopted on January 6, 2009 by the San Benito County Board of Supervisors.
         (c)   Use permits. A sign requiring a use permit application shall be
subject to the fee indicated in Ordinance 833, adopted on January 6, 2009 by
the San Benito County Board of Supervisors.
   (O)   Appeals and administration.
      (1)   Appeal. Sign permits or use permit decisions rendered under this
article may be appealed pursuant to §
25.01.008 of this code.
      (2)   Administrative interpretations.
         (a)   All interpretations of this article are to be exercised in light
of the County’s message neutrality and message substitution regulations stated
in this section.
         (b)   Where a particular type of sign is proposed in a permit
application, and the type of sign is neither expressly allowed nor prohibited
by this article, or whenever a sign is not a structure as defined, pursuant to
Title 21 of the County Code, the Director of Planning and Building shall
approve, conditionally approve or disapprove the application based on the most
similar type, using physical and structural similarity, that is expressly
regulated by this article, in light of the purposes of this article.
         (c)   Status quo. During the pending period of any review or appeal,
the status quo of the subject sign(s) shall be maintained. This does not apply
whenever a sign, by virtue of its physical conditions, constitutes a
significant immediate threat to public safety.
         (d)   Judicial review. Following a final decision by the County,
including all appeals, any concerned person may seek judicial review of the
final decision on a sign permit application pursuant to Cal. Code of Civil
Procedure § 1094.5, in conjunction with § 1094.6 or § 1094.8 as applicable.
         (e)    Non-communicative aspects of signs. All rules and regulations
concerning the non-communicative aspects of signs, including, but not limited
to, location, size, allowable enforceable independently of any permit or
approval process.
         (f)   Signage rights and duties. The legal rights and duties relating
to permanent signs are attached to and travel with the land and are not
personal in nature. This provision does not affect a sign owner’s right to
remove a sign from one location and apply for a permit to mount it in another
location subject to the rules applicable in the new location.
   (P)   Political signs.
      (1)   Political signs shall be exempt only from the permit regulations in
this chapter. All other relevant regulations shall apply. For purposes of this
exemption, "political signs" refers to a sign that:
         (a)   Is placed not sooner than 90 days prior to the scheduled
election;
         (b)   Is removed within ten days after that election; and
         (c)   Advocates for a particular outcome in an election.
      (2)   Abandoned signs; signs may be considered abandoned if they:
         (a)   Are placed on property without the property owner’s consent;
            1.   This division only applies so as to provide the property owner
with the right to remove a political sign placed without the property owner’s
consent by the property owner or the property owner’s agent, and not any other
person.
         (b)   Remain placed on any property after the tenth day after the
election;
         (c)   Interfere with any right-of-way or easement; or
         (d)   Create a hazard as deemed by County Code Enforcement, CALTRANS,
CHP or any other government agency responsible or related to the safe movement
of the public, whether pedestrian, vehicular or other.
      (3)   Political signs must still comply with California codes and
regulations, including Cal. Business and Professions Code § 5405.3 and all
applicable regulations from the Fair Political Practices Commission (FPPC).
   (Q)   Enforcement. The provisions of this article shall be enforced,
pursuant to
Chapter 1.03 of the County Code or other applicable provisions of state law.
   (R)   Severability. If any section, subsection, sentence, clause, or phrase
of this article is for any reason held to be invalid, such decision shall not
affect the validity of the remaining portions of this article.
(Ord. 1043 § 3 (part), 2022; Ord. 1062 § 1, 2023)
§ 25.07.017 HILLSIDE/RIDGELINE.
   (A)   Intent and purpose.
      (1)   The purpose of this article is to encourage design excellence and
high quality projects that will: maintain existing rural character, conserve
landforms and natural landscape, preserve wildlife habitats, protect/preserve
viewsheds, ensure that developments are designed to fit with the
characteristics and constraints of the site, and to protect life and property
from sites that are constrained by slope stability, landslide hazard, fire
hazard, and fault zones.
      (2)   The Board of Supervisors recognizes that the hillsides and
ridgelines within the County of San Benito are a unique resource. Therefore,
the Board of Supervisors, through the provisions herein contained, desires, and
intends to preserve and protect the ridgeline and hillside areas by regulating
development that would degrade these areas.
   (B)   Applicability.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided herein, the provisions of this article
shall apply to all proposed new residential land uses, buildings, structures,
or building additions which require a building permit and which are located on
slopes greater than 15% or meet all of the following criteria:
         (a)   Located along the viewshed corridors of Highway 101, Highway
156, Highway 25 north of Panoche Road, and Fairview Road; and
         (b)   Located at an elevation of 200 feet or higher above the
identified viewshed corridor; and
         (c)   Located in a place that is visible from the nearest point along
said viewshed corridor and one and one-half miles in either direction along the
viewshed corridor.
      (2)   This article does not apply to any agricultural use permitted by
right in any agricultural zone district or to any land within the boundaries of
the adopted Santana Ranch Specific Plan, as approved by the Board of
Supervisors on November 2, 2010, or the adopted Fairview Corners Specific Plan,
as approved by the Board of Supervisors on November 6, 2012, said areas having
been classified as Areas of Special Study prior to the effective date of the
ordinance codified in this title.
   (C)   Development prohibited on steep slopes and near ridgelines.
      (1)   Residential and urban development on hillsides with 30% or greater
slope is prohibited.
      (2)   Development within 100 vertical feet of any ridgeline is prohibited
unless there are no site development alternatives.
   (D)   Hillside/ridgeline design review required.
      (1)   For all proposed new residential land uses, developments,
buildings, structures, or building additions located in the subject to this
section, the property owner shall submit to the County Planning Department a
request for design review approval for each structure(s).
      (2)   In order for the Planning Department and Planning Commission to
make a determination on each proposed structure, staff or the Planning
Commission may require the applicants to submit information for review
including but not limited to: story pole analysis, landscaping plans, color
palettes, grading plans, elevations and photo representations of the proposed
structure.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/fb9621aeb40cfcace25e7d8581ab7f5ecac73a18/
IMAGES/0-0-0-6694.png]
 
“Story poles” are used to show the general outlines of a proposed structure.
      (3)   All design review applications in the area subject to this section
shall be reviewed and approved by the Planning Commission, with notice to
neighboring property owners.
   (E)   Hillside/ridgeline design criteria. Approval or denial of a design
review application shall be based upon the general findings for design review
approval in §
25.02.001 of this title and the following criteria:
      (1)   The location of structure(s) reasonably balances the need for
grading, visual impact of such structures and the views from such structures;
      (2)   Adequate landscaping is installed necessary to assist in mitigating
the visual impact of structures;
      (3)   Colors proposed for structures are consistent with the requirements
of these conditions;
      (4)   The height of structures balance visual impacts, architectural
design, and ensure that structures are consistent with any proposed mitigation
measures set forth in the environmental document.
      (5)   The above criteria shall be reasonably interpreted to balance the
interests of the community and property owner, and should be interpreted
without imposing arbitrary limits on height, size or other design
characteristics, but rather to ensure that each lot is developed in accordance
with its unique location, topography, and vegetation, and to incorporate
reasonable hillside mitigation measures, such as landscaping, building material
(s) and color palettes and which ensure the property owner(s) of the reasonable
use and enjoyment of their property.
   (F)   Definitions. The following are hillside-related terms, defined in the
Glossary in
Chapter 25.09 of this title.
      (1)   Access Road.
      (2)   Accessory Structure.
      (3)   Average Slope.
      (4)   Balance.
      (5)   Constraint.
      (6)   Contour.
      (7)   Contour Grading.
      (8)   Cut.
      (9)   Cut and Fill.
      (10)   Cut-Off Standards.
      (11)   Decision Making Body.
      (12)   Density.
      (13)   Director.
      (14)   Driveway.
      (15)   Emergency Access.
      (16)   Erosion.
      (17)   Export.
      (18)   Fill.
      (19)   Finish Grade.
      (20)   Floor Area, Gross.
      (21)   Floor Area Ratio (FAR).
      (22)   Grading.
      (23)   Hardscape.
      (24)   Hillside Lot.
      (25)   Intensity of Development.
      (26)   LRDA (Least Restricted Development Area).
      (27)   Manmade Slope.
      (28)   Minimal Grading.
      (29)   Natural Slope.
      (30)   Net Lot Area.
      (31)   Pad.
      (32)   Remodel.
      (33)   Ridgeline.
      (34)   Riparian Corridor.
      (35)   Scar.
      (36)   Site Analysis.
      (37)   Slope.
      (38)   Slope Density Formula.
      (39)   Slope Transition.
      (40)   Viewing Area.
   (G)   Conflicting regulations. In the event of conflict between the
provisions of these hillside development regulations and any other regulations
applicable to the same property and proposed use thereof, the more restrictive
provisions shall govern.
   (H)   Violations and enforcement. It shall be unlawful to construct or
remodel any building located within a sensitive viewshed area in violation of
these hillside development regulations. Any construction or remodel contrary to
the provisions of these hillside development regulations is unlawful and a
public nuisance and shall be abated, eliminated, and enjoined as provided in
Chapter 1.03 (Code Enforcement) of the County Code.
   (I)   Appeal. Any person aggrieved by any decision of the Director of
Planning may appeal said decision as provided for in §
25.01.008 of this code.
(Ord. 1043 § 3 (part), 2022)
§ 25.07.018 TREE PROTECTION.
   (A)   Purpose and intent and findings.
      (1)   The purpose of this section is to protect trees, which in the
judgment of the County provide numerous aesthetic, economic, and functional
benefits.
      (2)   Protection of woodlands is addressed in
Chapter 19.33 of the County Code.
   (B)   Definitions. The following terms used in this section are defined in
the Glossary in
Chapter 25.09 of this title.
      (1)   DBH.
      (2)   Destroy or Destruction.
      (3)   Developed.
      (4)   Drip Line.
      (5)   Person.
      (6)   Protected Zone.
      (7)   Removal/Remove.
      (8)   Serious Harm.
      (9)   Tree.
      (10)   Trees of Special Protection.
      (11)   Yard.
   (C)   Permit required; application requirements.
      (1)   A tree removal permit is required to trench, grade or fill within
the dripline of any tree or destroy, kill, remove, or seriously harm, any tree,
as defined, on all property, public or private, in the R-1 and RM zones.
      (2)   All tree removal permits shall remain valid for one year from the
date of permit issuance. An additional one-year extension shall be granted upon
receipt of a written request from the permit applicant.
      (3)   The application shall contain the number, species, size and
location of protected tree(s) to be affected and a brief statement of the
reason for action as well as any other pertinent information the Director may
require.
   (D)   Approval authority.
      (1)   The Planning Director may approve or deny applications for tree
removal permits.
      (2)   When a permit application requests the removal of three or more
trees or when the permit application is associated with a project that will be
heard by the Planning Commission, the Planning Director may schedule, with the
consent of the Chair of the Planning Commission, the permit request to be heard
directly by the Planning Commission.
      (3)   Approval or denial shall be based on the factors established in
this section. Decisions shall include a written statement of the reasons for
approval or denial.
   (E)   Review, determination and findings.
      (1)   The Director may approve the removal of one tree per parcel every
five years without making the findings set forth in division (E)(2), below,
except for any “trees of special protection” as defined in this article.
      (2)   Except as provided in division (E)(1), above, the approving
authority shall take into account the following factors in determining what
action to take upon the permit application:
         (a)   The condition of the tree with respect to disease or damage,
imminent danger to human life or safety, imminent danger to property, proximity
to existing or proposed structures, and interference with utility services
where the problem cannot be corrected by pruning.
         (b)   The potential impact the removed tree or trees may have upon
adjacent trees (i.e., increased windthrow). Where appropriate, removal may
necessitate an assessment of potential impacts upon adjacent trees by a
certified arborist or forester, along with the development of mitigations to
lessen such impacts.
         (c)   The required action is necessary to allow reasonable economic or
other enjoyment of the property.
         (d)   The topography of the land and the effect of the proposed tree
removal upon erosion, soil retention, and the diversion or increased flow of
sediment.
         (e)   The number, species, size, and location of existing trees in the
area, and the effect the proposed removal would have upon shade, privacy
impact, scenic beauty, and property values of the area.
         (f)   The historical significance or value of the tree to the
community, including but not limited to factors such as its service as part of
a windbreak system, its assistance in drainage or in the avoidance of soil
erosion, its service as a component of a wildlife habitat, or its role in
maintaining the existing urban forest.
         (g)   The type of tree to be removed.
         (h)   The tree has caused sewer/sidewalk or other property damage.
         (i)   Whether removal of the tree is necessary to take reasonable
advantage of views.
         (j)   The acceptance of mitigation measures, such as whether the tree
will replaced by planting a replacement tree.
   (F)   Exemptions. This article shall not apply to any of the following:
      (1)   Vegetation that does not meet the definition of “tree.”
      (2)   Trees which are not in the “protected zone.”
      (3)   Trees damaged by thunderstorms, windstorms, floods, earthquakes,
fires or other natural disasters and determined to be dangerous by a peace
officer, fireman, civil defense official or code enforcement officer in their
official capacity.
      (4)   Trees whose removal is determined necessary by Fire Department
personnel actively engaged in fighting a fire.
      (5)   Trees planted, grown and/or held for sale as part of a licensed
nursery business.
      (6)   Trees which require maintenance or removal action for the
protection of existing electrical power or communication lines or other
property of a public utility, as determined by the Public Utility, its
employees, or designee(s).
      (7)   Trees determined to be an imminent threat to public health, safety,
or welfare, or to property, as determined in writing by the Director of
Planning and Building Services or the Public Works Director or their designees.
      (8)   Trees located within existing or proposed public rights-of-way
where their removal or relocation is necessary to obtain adequate line-of-sight
distances, or removal would benefit roadway usage (i.e. road widening, sidewalk
installation, and the like) as determined by the Director of Public Works or
his or her designee.
      (9)   Trees removed pursuant to a permit issued by a state or federal
regulatory agency, including but not limited to the California Department of
Fish and Wildlife, such as when work is being performed in a waterway to
prevent floodway restriction.
      (10)   Trees whose removal is determined necessary by a certified
arborist because the tree is diseased or has received insufficient water to the
degree that it is reasonably unlikely that the tree can be fully restored to a
condition of good health. The report of the certified arborist must be provided
to the County. The County may request the opinion of a second arborist. If the
applicant refuses to allow the county arborist to examine the tree, then the
applicant may not utilize this exemption.
      (11)   Trees which are removed as part of a development project that has
been considered under CEQA, and (a) the project considered the removal of
designated trees, or (b) the removal of trees is contained in a landscape plan
submitted in compliance with a condition of approval for the approved project.
      (12)   Any tree whose trunk is fully located within the boundaries of
fully fenced rear yard or side yard on a developed residential parcel. This
exemption does not apply to those “trees of special protection.”
   (G)   Penalty for violations.
      (1)   Violations are an infraction. Any person violating any provisions
of this article is guilty of an infraction and, upon conviction thereof, shall
be punished as provided in
Chapter 1.03 of this code and/or state law. Each breach of this article shall
constitute a separate violation punishable as set forth below. Each day a
violation is committed or permitted to continue shall constitute a separate
offense and shall be punishable as such.
   (H)   Enforcement.
      (1)   [Reserved].
      (2)   Repair/replacement. Any person who causes a tree to be destroyed,
removed, seriously harmed, or killed, in violation of this article shall repair
or replace any such tree at the violator’s sole cost and expense, and as
directed by the County.
      (3)   The Director of Public Works and the Planning Director have the
joint responsible for enforcement of this article.
      (4)   The Code Enforcement Officer, and/or any peace officer, shall be
empowered to enforce the provisions of this article and shall be authorized to
issue citations to violators.
   (I)   Fees. Any person requesting a permit issued pursuant to this article
shall pay an application fee as established by the County.
(Ord. 1043 § 3 (part), 2022)
CHAPTER 25.08: STANDARDS FOR SPECIFIC USES AND AREAS
Section
   
25.08.001   Introduction
   
25.08.002   Accessory dwelling units and innovative housing
   
25.08.003   Cottage food operations
   
25.08.004   Home occupations and rural home enterprise
   
25.08.005   Multi-family objective design standards
   
25.08.006   Mobile homes and mobile home parks
   
25.08.007   Congregate care residential facilities
   
25.08.008   Day care centers
   
25.08.009   Day care, limited — Small family (eight or fewer children)
   
25.08.010   Day care, limited — Large family (up to 14 children)
   
25.08.011   Drive-through and drive-in facilities
   
25.08.012   Kennels and pet shops
   
25.08.013   Animal keeping and number of small farm animals, small livestock,
and dog and cats
   
25.08.014   Recycling facilities
   
25.08.015   Mini-storage facilities
   
25.08.016   Renewable energy facilities
   
25.08.017   Surface mining and reclamation
   
25.08.018   Fire safety standards
   
25.08.019   Wireless telecommunication facilities
   
25.08.020   Unmanned aircraft systems shipping/delivery services
   
25.08.021   Public uses
   
25.08.022   Agricultural employee (farmworker) housing
   
25.08.023   Single-family farmworker housing
 
   
25.08.024   Medical marijuana dispensaries prohibited
   
25.08.025   Mineral resource area development regulations
   
25.08.026   Floodplain development standards
   
25.08.027   Scenic highway corridor development standards
   
25.08.028   Seismic safety development standards
   
25.08.029   Tiny homes
   
25.08.030   [RESERVED]
   
25.08.031   Low impact camping
§ 25.08.001 INTRODUCTION.
   This chapter establishes development standards specific to a variety of uses
and for specific areas which require the application of special development
standards. These are in addition to the basic development standards for all
uses in the various zones and are intended to replace the basic standards for
these specific uses.
(Ord. 1043 § 3 (part), 2022)
§ 25.08.002 ACCESSORY DWELLING UNITS AND INNOVATIVE HOUSING.
   (A)   Purpose and intent. This section establishes regulations and a
ministerial review process for accessory dwelling units. Accessory dwelling
units are intended to expand housing opportunities for low income and moderate
income or elderly households by increasing the number of rental units available
within existing neighborhoods while maintaining the primarily single-family
residential character of the area.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/fb9621aeb40cfcace25e7d8581ab7f5ecac73a18/
IMAGES/0-0-0-6841.png]
 
Example of an Accessory Dwelling Unit, in this case detached from the primary
dwelling.
   (B)   Applicability. This section applies to all accessory dwelling units,
including junior accessory dwelling units, as defined. Accessory dwelling units
are permitted by right in any zoning district which permits single-family or
multi-family homes.
   (C)   Relationship to general plan and zoning.
      (1)   Any accessory dwelling unit or junior accessory dwelling unit which
conforms with the requirements of this chapter shall be deemed to be consistent
with the general plan designation and zoning for the parcel, regardless of any
limitations on residential density imposed by the general plan or zoning.
      (2)   Accessory dwelling units shall not be counted when determining
residential density for conformance with general plan or zoning.
   (D)   Permits and approval.
      (1)   Ministerial action. Approval or denial of an accessory dwelling
unit or junior accessory dwelling unit is a ministerial action and subject to
compliance with the standards in this section and all other applicable codes.
      (2)   Building permit. All accessory dwelling unit or junior accessory
dwelling units shall require a building permit, subject to all the standard
application and processing fees and procedures that apply to building permits
generally. No other planning-related permit is required.
      (3)   Issuance of permit. The County shall issue a building permit within
60 calendar days from the date on which the County received a completed
application, unless either.
         (a)   The applicant requests a delay, in which case the 60-day time
period is put on hold for the period of the requested delay; or
         (b)   The application to create an accessory dwelling unit or junior
accessory dwelling unit is submitted with an application to create a new
single-family dwelling unit on the parcel. The County may delay acting on the
accessory dwelling unit application until such time as the new single family
dwelling unit is approved.
   (E)   ADU terms and definitions. The following terms are used in this
section. For definitions, see the Glossary in
Chapter 25.09.
      (1)   Accessory Dwelling Unit.
      (2)   Accessory Structure.
      (3)   Car Share.
      (4)   Efficiency Kitchen.
      (5)   Efficiency Unit.
      (6)   Independent Living Facility.
      (7)   Living Area.
      (8)   Passageway.
      (9)   Primary Dwelling.
      (10)   Public Transit.
      (11)   Single-unit, Two-unit, and Multi-unit.
      (12)   Tandem Parking.
   (F)   Types of accessory dwelling units.
      (1)   Accessory dwelling units, attached and detached.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/fb9621aeb40cfcace25e7d8581ab7f5ecac73a18/
IMAGES/0-0-0-6843.png]
 
Accessory Dwelling Units can be detached from (left) or attached to (right) the
primary unit.
         (a)   Attached. An accessory dwelling unit that is attached to an
existing or proposed primary dwelling, such as through a shared wall, floor, or
ceiling. An attached accessory dwelling unit can be created by converting a
portion of an existing primary dwelling, by constructing a new primary dwelling
which includes an accessory dwelling unit, or by constructing an addition to an
existing primary dwelling.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/fb9621aeb40cfcace25e7d8581ab7f5ecac73a18/
IMAGES/0-0-0-6845.png]
 
Example of an Accessory Dwelling Unit (right side) attached to the primary
dwelling.
         (b)   Detached. An accessory dwelling unit that is physically detached
or separated from the primary dwelling. Detached includes a second-story
addition above an existing detached structure. A detached accessory dwelling
unit can be new construction or the conversion or expansion of an existing
structure. Tiny homes, as defined in §
25.08.029, may be used as detached accessory dwelling units.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/fb9621aeb40cfcace25e7d8581ab7f5ecac73a18/
IMAGES/0-0-0-6847.png]
 
Example of an Accessory Dwelling Unit detached from the primary dwelling.
      (2)   Junior accessory dwelling unit. An attached accessory dwelling unit
that is a unit that meets specific criteria as specified below.
         (a)   Maximum of 500 square feet in size.
         (b)   Contained entirely within the existing footprint or area a
single-unit primary dwelling (see illustration below).
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/fb9621aeb40cfcace25e7d8581ab7f5ecac73a18/
IMAGES/0-0-0-6849.png]
 
         (c)   Has a separate entrance from the main entrance to the primary
dwelling.
         (d)   Has a bathroom that is either in the Junior ADU or in the
primary dwelling.
         (e)   Includes an efficiency kitchen.
   (G)   Number of accessory dwelling units on lots or parcels which allow
single-family homes. The following number of accessory dwelling units apply in
all zoning districts that allow single family homes as a permitted use:
      (1)   One attached or detached accessory dwelling unit shall be allowed
on a parcel with one primary dwelling unit.
      (2)   One junior accessory dwelling unit shall be allowed on a parcel
with primary dwelling.
      (3)   Up to one attached or detached accessory dwelling unit and one
junior accessory dwelling Unit shall be allowed on a single parcel.
   (H)   Number of accessory dwelling units on lots or parcels which allow
multi-family homes. The following number of accessory dwelling units apply in
all zoning districts that allow multi-family homes as a permitted use:
      (1)   Attached accessory dwelling units.
         (a)   At least one attached or up to 25% of the number of the existing
multi-family units shall be allowed as attached accessory dwelling units in an
existing multi-family development.
         (b)   Attached accessory dwelling units in a multi-family development
may be created only through the conversion of parts of existing multifamily
dwelling structures that are not used as livable space, including, but not
limited to, storage rooms, boiler rooms, passageways, attics, basements, or
garages.
      (2)   Detached accessory dwelling units. Up to two detached accessory
dwelling units shall be allowed on a parcel with one or more multi-family
structures, subject to compliance with the development standards for detached
accessory dwelling units in this chapter.
   (I)   Development standards for attached and detached accessory dwelling
units.
      (1)   Attached accessory dwelling units.
         (a)   Location. Shall be located on the same lot or parcel as a
primary dwelling unit and be attached to the primary dwelling unit by at least
one wall or by a ceiling (above or below the primary dwelling unit).
         (b)   Size. The total floor area of an attached accessory dwelling
unit shall not exceed 1,500 square feet or 50% of the size of the primary
dwelling unit, whichever is less. This limit does not include up to 150 square
feet of area added to the primary dwelling for the sole purpose of providing
access to the accessory dwelling unit.
         (c)   Setbacks.
            1.   Front yard setback: Per the zoning district standard for the
primary dwelling.
            2.   Side yard: Four feet.
            3.   Rear yard: Four feet.
         (d)   Height. Per the zoning district standard for the primary
dwelling.
         (e)   Access. An attached accessory dwelling unit shall have direct
exterior access separate from the main entrance to the primary dwelling.
         (f)   Design. Accessory dwelling units shall be compatible with the
architectural style, materials, and colors of the primary dwelling unit.
Accessory dwelling units built using county-approved designs may differ in
architectural style and materials.
         (g)   See division (K), below, for parking requirements.
         (h)   Environmental health clearance is required for water and
wastewater systems serving the accessory dwelling unit.
      (2)   Detached accessory dwelling unit development standards.
         (a)   Location. Shall be located on the same lot or parcel as a
primary dwelling unit.
         (b)   Size. No minimum size, except as needed to conform with the
requirements for an efficiency unit as defined in the Building Code. A detached
accessory dwelling unit shall not exceed 1,500 square feet in size.
         (c)   Setbacks.
            1.   Front yard setback: Per the zoning district standard for the
primary dwelling.
            2.   Side yard: Four feet.
            3.   Rear yard: Four feet.
         (d)   Height. 25 feet for new structures built specifically as an
accessory dwelling unit. Existing structures can be converted to an accessory
dwelling unit consistent with the requirements of this §
25.08.002.
         (e)   Design. Accessory dwelling units shall be compatible with the
architectural style, materials, and colors of the primary dwelling unit.
Accessory dwelling units built using county-approved designs may differ in
architectural style and materials.
         (f)   See division (K), below, for parking requirements.
         (g)   Environmental health clearance is required for water and
wastewater systems serving the accessory dwelling unit.
      (3)   Junior accessory dwelling unit development standards.
         (a)   Location. Shall be located on the same lot or parcel as a
primary dwelling unit and be attached to the primary dwelling unit by at least
one wall or by a ceiling. The junior accessory dwelling unit may be located
above or below the primary dwelling unit.
         (b)   Size. Maximum of 500 square feet of living area. Up to 150
square feet of building space may be added to the primary dwelling for the sole
purpose of providing access to the accessory dwelling unit; this shall not
count toward the maximum area for the junior accessory dwelling unit.
         (c)   Setbacks. If the primary dwelling unit is expanded to create the
junior accessory dwelling unit, the addition shall maintain setbacks of four
feet from side and rear yards or the same setback as the existing structure,
whichever is less. Front setback shall be the same as the existing structure or
per the zoning district for the primary structure, whichever is less. Larger
setbacks shall apply if required by Fire or Building codes on a case-by-case
basis.
         (d)   Access. A junior accessory dwelling unit shall have direct
exterior access separate from the main entrance to the primary dwelling.
         (e)   Kitchen. Each junior accessory dwelling unit shall include an
efficiency kitchen.
         (f)   Utilities.
            1.   Whether built as part of a new dwelling or converted from
space in an existing dwelling, a junior accessory dwelling unit shall not be
considered a separate or new dwelling unit for the purposes of calculating
connection fees or county charges for utilities, including water, sewer, or
power service, or impact fees.
            2.   No new or separate utility connection between the junior
accessory dwelling unit and the utility shall be required, although the
property owner may voluntarily install a submeter for the junior accessory
dwelling unit.
            3.   Any utility charges or fees shall be consistent with state
law.
         (g)   Parking. No additional off-street parking is required for the
junior accessory dwelling unit.
         (h)   Environmental health clearance is required for water and
wastewater systems serving the accessory dwelling unit.
         (i)   Owner occupancy requirements for junior ADUs.
            1.   A person with legal or equitable title to the primary dwelling
shall reside on the property in either the primary dwelling or junior accessory
dwelling unit as that person’s legal domicile and permanent residence.
            2.   The owner occupancy requirement does not apply if the property
is entirely owned by a governmental agency, land trust, or non-profit housing
organization.
            3.   Prior to issuance of a building permit for a junior accessory
dwelling unit, a deed restriction shall be recorded in the chain of title of
the primary single-unit property. The form of the deed restriction shall be
approved by the County and shall provide that the junior accessory dwelling
units shall not be sold separately from the primary dwelling.
            4.   The deed restriction shall run with the land and shall be
enforced against future property owners.
   (J)   Impact fees.
      (1)   Impact fee requirements.
         (a)   No county-imposed impact fees shall be charged for an accessory
dwelling unit that is less than 750 square feet in size.
         (b)   For accessory dwelling units 750 square feet or larger, county-
imposed impact fees shall be charged proportionately in relation to the square
footage of the primary dwelling (e.g., the floor area of the accessory dwelling
unit, divided by the floor area of the primary dwelling, times the typical fee
amount charged for a new dwelling). See the example below:
            •   750 square foot ADU
            •   2,250 square foot primary dwelling
            750/2,250 = 0.33 ADU pays 0.33 (33%) of the fees that would be
charged for the primary dwelling
         (c)   For the purposes of this division, impact fees do not include
any connection fee or capacity charge for water or sewer service or charges for
garbage or recycling service.
         (d)   Fees imposed by any agency or special district other than the
County shall be collected in accordance with the agency’s or district’s fee
schedule.
   (K)   ADU required parking.
      (1)   Number of parking spaces.
         (a)   One off-street parking space, covered or uncovered, is required
for each attached and detached accessory dwelling unit.
         (b)   No off-street parking is required for an attached or detached
accessory dwelling unit if one or more of the following applies:
            1.   The accessory dwelling unit is located within one-half mile
walking distance of public transit, including transit stations and bus
stations.
            2.   When on-street parking permits are required by the County but
not offered to the occupant of the accessory dwelling unit.
            3.   The accessory dwelling unit is part of the proposed or
existing primary residence.
            4.   The accessory dwelling unit is the conversion of an existing
accessory structure.
            5.   When there is a car share vehicle located within one block of
the accessory dwelling unit.
         (c)   No off-street parking is required for a junior accessory
dwelling unit.
         (d)   Required off-street parking for an Accessory dwelling unit space
may be provided as tandem parking, including on a paved driveway.
      (2)   Parking lost when a garage, carport, or covered parking structure
is demolished to allow for the construction of an accessory dwelling unit or
for the conversion of a structure to an accessory dwelling unit shall not be
required to be replaced.
(Ord. 1043 § 3 (part), 2022)
§ 25.08.003 COTTAGE FOOD OPERATIONS.
   (A)   Purpose and applicability. The provisions in this section shall apply
to cottage food operations, as defined by current state law, in compliance with
Chapter 25.03 Zoning Map and Zoning Districts and the following standards.
These standards shall apply in addition to requirements imposed by the San
Benito County Department of Public Health and other regulatory agencies.
   (B)   Standards. All cottage food operations shall comply with the standards
and provisions in the Home Occupations section, as well as regulatory standards
established by state law (Cal. Gov’t Code §§ 51035 et seq. and Cal. Health and
Safety Code §§ 114365 et seq.) and the County Department of Public Health.
(Ord. 1043 § 3 (part), 2022)
§ 25.08.004 HOME OCCUPATIONS AND RURAL HOME ENTERPRISE.
   (A)   Home occupations defined. A HOME OCCUPATION is defined as the
operation of a business in a dwelling by an occupant as an accessory use. For
the purpose of this title a cottage food operation will be considered a home
occupation but will have additional requirements as regulated by the state law
and County Department of Public Health.
   (B)   Permitted zoning districts for home occupations. A home occupation is
allowed in the following zoning districts: AR, AP, R, RT, RR, R-1, and RM,
including where these zones are overlaid by a combining zone, unless the
standards of the combining zone would not permit the use.
   (C)   No permit required for home occupation. No permit is required for a
home occupation.
   (D)   Home occupation regulations. The following regulations apply to all
home occupations:
      (1)   A home occupation must be operated entirely inside of the primary
dwelling unit or an accessory dwelling unit. Any dwelling which is used for a
home occupation must be the primary residence of the person operating the
business.
      (2)   No persons who are not residents of the primary dwelling or
accessory dwelling unit may work onsite as part of the home occupation. Any
number of on-site residents may work as part of a home occupation.
      (3)   Any number of home occupations may be operated at a single
location, provided that the requirements of this section are followed.
      (4)   A home occupation shall be limited to only one client or customer
visits to the site shall normally be limited to not more than three per day,
and ten per week.
      (5)   Home occupations shall not include any of the following:
         (a)   Employment of any person not a resident of the dwelling unit.
         (b)   Generation of pedestrian or vehicular traffic beyond that normal
to the district.
         (c)   Storage of materials or supplies outdoors.
         (d)   Show windows, window displays or on-site advertising to attract
customers, clients or the general public to the premises.
         (e)   Any construction feature or alteration not of a residential
character.
         (f)   Any operational characteristic or effect, including color,
lighting, noise, vibration, electrical disturbance, smoke or odor discernable
at the exterior boundaries of the building site which would identify the
premises as serving a non-residential purpose.
         (g)   Storage or use of flammable or toxic substances or other
materials deemed hazardous, beyond that normal to a residential or agricultural
district.
   (E)   Permitted home occupations. Any business not specifically prohibited
may be operated as a home occupation, so long as all of the limitations in this
section are complied with.
   (F)   Prohibited home occupations. The following uses shall not be operated
as a home occupation:
      (1)   Animal hospital or animal clinic.
      (2)   Clinic, hospital or facility for the care or treatment of human
ills, including medical and non-medical treatments.
      (3)   Vehicle repair.
      (4)   The sale of vehicles by a dealer as defined in Cal. Vehicle Code §
285.
      (5)   Day care center.
      (6)   Massage parlors, saunas, Turkish baths or similar uses.
      (7)   Uses listed as permitted or conditionally permitted in the zoning
district in which the home occupation is located shall be regulated as provided
in that chapter.
      (8)   Any home occupation working outside the regulations set forth in
this code will be subject to code enforcement procedures as outline under Title
1: General Provisions; Code Enforcement.
   (G)   Home occupation signs.
      (1)   A home occupation may display one non-illuminated, single-faced
sign for the purposes of advertisement not more than three square feet in area,
displaying the name of the person conducting the home occupation or rural home
enterprise use and/or the street address of the property shall be allowed.
      (2)   The sign must be located either flat against the front wall of the
dwelling or not closer than 20 feet from the parallel of the front street
property line.
      (3)   One sign is permitted at one address, regardless of the number of
home occupations operating at the address.
   (H)   Business license tax. All businesses are subject to Title 5, Article
IV, Business License Tax.
   (I)   Cottage food operations. All cottage food operations shall comply with
the standards and provisions in the home occupations section, as well as
regulatory standards established by state law (Cal. Gov’t Code §§ 51035 et seq.
and Cal. Health and Safety Code §§ 114365 et seq.) and the San Benito County
Department of Public Health.
   (J)   Rural home enterprise defined. A RURAL HOME ENTERPRISE is defined as
the operation of a business in a dwelling or accessory structure by an occupant
and a limited number of non-resident employees as an accessory use.
      (1)   Permitted zoning districts for rural home enterprises. Rural home
enterprises are allowed in the AR, AP, R, and RT zones, including where these
zones are overlaid by a combining zone, unless the standards of the combining
zone would not permit the use.
      (2)   Permit required for rural home enterprise.
         (a)   A rural home enterprise requires the issuance of an
administrative use permit.
         (b)   As provided in this section, a conditional use permit may be
used to allow certain expansions in the operations of a rural home enterprise.
   (K)   Rural home enterprise regulations. The following regulations apply to
all rural home enterprises. Additional limitations may be imposed as part of an
administrative use permit or conditional use permit for the rural home
enterprise.
      (1)   A rural home enterprise must be operated entirely inside of the
primary dwelling unit or accessory dwelling unit or entirely within one
accessory structure.
      (2)   A rural home enterprise may be operated on any parcel in the
allowed zoning districts. No minimum parcel size is required.
      (3)   Up to five non-residents may work onsite as part of a rural home
enterprise, unless additional non-resident onsite employees are permitted via a
conditional use permit.
      (4)   Any number of on-site residents who may work as part of a rural
home enterprise.
      (5)   A maximum of one rural home enterprise may be operated at a single
location.
      (6)   A rural home enterprise may be operated at the same location as one
or more home occupations.
      (7)   Businesses must operate between 8 am and 7 pm weekdays, unless
different hours and days of operation are approved through a conditional use
permit.
   (L)   Rural home enterprises shall not include any of the following:
      (1)   Employment on the premises of more than five (5) persons other than
members of the family occupying the dwelling unit, unless permitted via a
Conditional Use Permit.
      (2)   Generation of pedestrian or vehicular traffic which would
negatively affect the surrounding properties.
      (3)   Storage of materials or supplies outdoors.
      (4)   Show windows, window displays or on-site advertising to attract
customers, clients or the general public to the premises;
      (5)   Any operational characteristic or effect, including color,
lighting, noise, vibration, electrical disturbance, smoke or odor discernable
at the exterior boundaries of the building site which would identify the
premises as serving a nonresidential purpose.
      (6)   The sale of products on the premises not related to the Rural Home
Enterprise;
      (7)   The storage or use of flammable or toxic substances or other
materials deemed hazardous, beyond that normal to a residential or agricultural
district.
   (M)   Permitted rural home enterprises. Any business not specifically
prohibited may be operated as a home occupation, so long as all of the
limitations in this section are complied with. Uses listed as permitted or
conditionally permitted in the zoning district shall be regulated as provided
in that chapter.
   (N)   Prohibited rural home enterprises. The following uses may not be
operated as a rural home enterprise:
      (1)   The sale of vehicles by a dealer as defined in Cal. Vehicle Code §
285.
   (O)   Rural home enterprise permit filing requirements. An application for
an administrative use permit or conditional use permit shall be filed as
provided in this code.
   (P)   Rural home enterprise permit review and findings. An administrative
use permit or conditional use permit for a rural home enterprise shall be
reviewed, and findings made as provided in this code, including the following
findings:
      (1)   That the proposed use, if it complies with all conditions upon
which approval is made contingent, is in conformance with the “Home
Occupations” and “Rural Home Enterprises” regulations of this code.
      (2)   Conditions of approval may be imposed to ensure that all required
findings for approval can be made and the use will operate as provided in this
section.
   (Q)   Business license tax. All businesses are subject to Title 5, Article
IV, Business License Tax.
   (R)   Permit modification or revocation. An administrative use permit or
conditional use permit for a rural home enterprise can be modified or revoked
per the procedures set forth in this code. Any rural home enterprise working
outside the regulations set forth in this code will be subject to code
enforcement procedures under Title 1: General Provisions; Code Enforcement.
(Ord. 1043 § 3 (part), 2022; Ord. 1049, § 3, 2022)
§ 25.08.005 MULTI-FAMILY OBJECTIVE DESIGN STANDARDS.
   (A)   Purpose. Pursuant to state law, San Benito County is required to
review qualifying affordable multi-family projects using a streamlined
ministerial review process. This chapter meets the requirements of state law by
establishing a process for reviewing affordable multi-family residential
projects with objective design and development standards. This will ensure that
all housing built pursuant to this chapter meets the County’s standards for
quality design.
   (B)   Applicability.
      (1)   Eligibility. This chapter applies to multi-family housing projects
which meet the eligibility criteria found in Cal. Gov’t Code § 65913.4.
      (2)   Verification of eligibility. Applicants applying for streamlined
review of multi-family housing must provide supporting documentation to
demonstrate eligibility.
      (3)   These standards also apply to projects not requesting streamlined
reviews or combined with other permitting such as subdivision maps or
conditional use permit.
   (C)   Process.
      (1)   Application required. All applications for streamlined review of
multi-family housing shall be accompanied by materials as required by the
Planning Director to verify compliance with the requirements of this section.
      (2)   Timing.    All applications shall be either approved or denied by
the County within the following timelines:
         (a)   Projects with 150 or fewer housing units shall be approved
within 60 calendar days of application submittal.
         (b)   Projects with more than 150 housing units shall be approved
within 90 calendar days of application submittal.
      (3)   Approval authority. Applications for streamlined review of multi-
family housing shall be reviewed and approved by the Planning Director.
      (4)   Approval required for conforming projects and required findings.
         (a)   The Planning Director shall approve an application for
streamlined review of multi-family housing if the proposal meets the
eligibility criteria for a streamlined review process and conforms with all of
the objective design standards contained in this chapter. Proof of availability
of municipal water and sewer service is also required for approval.
         (b)   The Planning Director shall transmit notice of his/her decision
to approve or deny an application for streamlined review of multi-family
housing to the Planning Commission within one calendar day of the date of
decision.
         (c)   If an application for streamlined review of multi-family housing
is denied, the County shall notify the applicant in writing of the reason(s)
for the denial, including any eligibility criteria or design standards that are
not satisfied.
      (5)   No hearing required. No public hearing shall be required prior to a
decision to approve or deny an application for streamlined review of multi-
family housing.
      (6)   Appeals. The decision of the Planning Director to approve or deny
an application for streamlined review of multi-family housing may be appealed
per the provisions of §
25.01.008. The Commission’s review of an appeal shall be limited to determining
whether the project meets the required findings for approval contained in this
chapter.
      (7)   Expiration of approvals. An approval for streamlined review of
multi-family housing pursuant to this chapter shall expire pursuant to Cal.
Gov’t Code § 65913. A one-year time extension may be granted pursuant to state
law if the applicant provides reasonable documentation to prove there has been
significant progress toward getting the project construction-ready, such as
filing a building permit application.
      (8)   Amendments. An applicant may request an amendment to an approved
streamlined review of multi-family housing. Amended projects shall demonstrated
continued conformance with the eligibility requirements and development
standards in this chapter.
   (D)   Site planning. The following standards apply to the siting of
buildings within the multi-family project.
      (1)   Neighborhood compatibility.
         (a)   Residential projects located across the street from single-
family neighborhoods shall orient the following features toward the street:
individual entries, patio areas and landscaping facing single-family homes.
         (b)   Where new multi-family development is built adjacent to or
across a street from existing residential development, the façade facing the
existing low-density residential development shall be designed to provide
architectural relief and interest, and in similar massing and scale of adjacent
neighbors.
         (c)   Windows shall be offset by ten feet to avoid direct sightlines
into and from existing homes on the same level. Balconies shall be positioned
so they avoid direct views into neighboring properties.
      (2)   Pedestrian circulation. On-site pedestrian circulation and access
within a multi-family project shall be provided according to the following
standards:
         (a)   Pedestrian walkways shall connect all buildings on a site to
each other, to on-site automobile and bicycle parking areas, and to any on-site
open space areas or pedestrian amenities.
         (b)   An on-site walkway shall connect the primary building entry or
entries to a public sidewalk along each street right-of-way.
         (c)   Walkways shall be a minimum of five feet wide and paved with
concrete.
   (E)   Open space. The following standards apply to the design of open space
features within the multi-family project.
      (1)   Common open space. Common open space is required for all
multifamily projects with more than ten units seeking approval through the
objective standards process as shown below:
         (a)   Common open space shall be provided at a rate of 100 square feet
of open space per dwelling unit. Required front, side, and rear setbacks shall
not be counted toward meeting open space requirements.
         (b)   Common open space is open space used commonly by residents of a
building, having a minimum dimension of 15 feet in any direction and a minimum
area of 300 square feet.
         (c)   Common open space may be comprised of the following: patios,
turfed areas, community gardens, pools, common pedestrian walkways serving the
entire development, tot-lots, and recreation areas accessible to building
residents and their visitors.
         (d)   Common open space shall not include driveways, pedestrian access
to units from common pedestrian walkways, parking areas or required front, side
or rear setback areas.
         (e)   A minimum of 60% of the common open space shall be provided as a
landscaped turf area or garden.
      (2)   Private open space. Private open space is required for all
multifamily projects seeking approval through the objective standards process.
The following requirements shall apply:
         (a)   Private open space areas at ground level, such as patios, shall
have a minimum of 120 square feet of private outdoor space directly adjacent to
the unit.
         (b)   Private open space above ground level, such as balconies, shall
have a minimum of 60 square feet of area with no dimension less than six feet.
         (c)   Private outdoor space shall be delineated by a wall, fence, or
hedge.
         (d)   Private open space is usable open space adjoining and directly
accessible to a dwelling unit, reserved for the exclusive use of residents of
the dwelling unit and their guests. Examples include patios, screened decks, or
balconies.
         (e)   Accent elements shall be used to demarcate pedestrian entrances
to a multi-family development and common open space areas on the interior of a
project site. Accent elements shall include the following: wood trellises,
arches, arbors, columns, or low monument features.
         (f)   Storage space shall be provided for each unit.
      (3)   Private storage space for personal property. Each unit shall have
at least 25 square feet of enclosed, weather-proofed, and lockable private
storage space with a minimum horizontal dimension of four feet.
   (F)   Landscaping. The following standards apply to the design of
landscaping and lighting within the multi-family project.
      (1)   Landscaping around the building perimeter is required.
      (2)   Within the landscaped area between the right-of-way and buildings,
trees shall be planted at a rate of one for each 20 feet of landscaped area.
Trees shall be located between four and ten feet from the back of the sidewalk.
The landscaped area shall also include shrubs, ground covers, and other natural
growth, or stormwater quality features and drainage treatments.
      (3)   All planting areas, plant materials, and irrigation shall conform
with the County’s water-efficient landscaping regulations.
      (4)   Parking lot landscaping.
         (a)   Parking areas, covered and uncovered, must be screened from view
from public roadways with landscaping. Landscaped screening is defined as a
natural or man-made feature which separates land uses. Landscape screening may
be accomplished through the following: landscaping (groundcover, plantings, and
trees), a planted earth berm (no greater than two feet in height), hedge, wall,
or some combination of the above.
         (b)   A perimeter landscaped strip at least ten feet wide shall be
provided for any parking area adjacent to a public street or to the side or
rear property line. The perimeter landscaped strip may be located within a
required setback area.
         (c)   Trees shall be planted and maintained in all parking lots at a
minimum ratio of one tree for every six parking spaces. Trees shall be evenly
distributed throughout the entire parking area.
         (d)   Decorative or enhanced paving shall be used to indicate
crosswalks and project entries.
   (G)   Lighting.
      (1)   All entryways, pathways, public areas, and parking lots shall be
illuminated per county standards.
      (2)   High-efficiency, warm white light shall be used.
      (3)   Lighting shall be arranged to reflect or direct light away from
adjacent residential properties.
   (H)   Architectural design.
      (1)   Façade detailing and materials.
         (a)   Building facades shall reflect the characteristics of an
identifiable architectural styles, such as: Craftsman, Mediterranean, Monterey
Craftsman, Monterey Colonial, Ranch, Spanish Colonial Revival, Spanish Mission,
and Victorian.
         (b)   All visible building facades visible from the public right-of-
way and adjacent properties shall incorporate one or more of the following
details: window and door trim, window recesses, cornices, changes in materials
or other design elements. All building facades shall be designed with the same
level of detailing and quality of materials.
         (c)   Window trim shall be a minimum of two inches in width and one
inch in depth. In lieu of exterior window trim, windows may be recessed from a
wall plane by a minimum of three inches.
         (d)   A unified palette (color, texture, sheen) of materials shall be
used on all sides of buildings. Every building shall have at least two
complementary colors.
         (e)   At least two materials shall be used on any building frontage,
in addition to glazing and railings. One material must comprise at least 20% of
the building facade.
         (f)   Allowed materials shall include stone, brick, stucco, painted
wood, and vinyl siding. The following materials are prohibited: concrete block
(unless covered by stucco), T111 plywood, metal, and other materials which have
the same appearance.
         (g)   Natural materials such as stone, river rock, or slate, which are
intended to be seen in their natural state, shall not be painted.
         (h)   Wood shingles are prohibited as roofing material.
         (i)   Carports, detached garages, and accessory structures shall use
similar materials, colors, and details equivalent to the principal buildings of
a development.
         (j)   All multi-family tenant parking spaces shall be covered. Guest
spaces may be uncovered or covered.
      (2)   Massing and articulation.
         (a)   Upper stories shall not project more than 24 inches beyond the
ground floor footprint, except for bay windows or balconies.
         (b)   The massing of upper stories, particularly those over a garage,
shall be modulated by stepping back massing elements a minimum of two feet from
the ground floor facade, and/or through the use of protruding bay windows.
         (c)   Garage doors shall be recessed a minimum of nine inches from the
plane of the building façade.
         (d)   A minimum one-foot offset is required for any wall plane that
exceeds 30 feet in length.
         (e)   Buildings over two stories tall shall have massing breaks at
least every 100 feet along any street frontage adjacent to a public park,
publicly accessible outdoor space, or designated open space. Breaks in massing
may be provided through the use of varying setbacks and/or building entries.
Massing breaks shall be a minimum of two feet deep and four feet wide and
extend the full height of the building. Building entrances, front porches, and
similar architectural features may count towards meeting this requirement.
         (f)   Variation of roof forms shall be used on buildings of over 50
feet in length along the street frontage. This can be accomplished through the
use of cornices, reveals, clerestory windows, and differences in roof height
and/or form.
         (g)   A minimum of two architectural features shall be incorporated
into each building, including: balconies, dormers, bay windows, patios,
individualized entries, and accent materials.
   (I)   Accessory features. The following standards apply to the design of
accessory features within the multi-family project.
      (1)   Walls and fences.
         (a)   All wall and fence designs shall integrate materials and
detailing that are used on the primary buildings (e.g. pilasters, stonework,
wrought iron, or colors).
         (b)   Walls shall be constructed of decorative masonry, including CMU
walls, split-face walls, or material of similar appearance, maintenance, and
structural durability. Precision block is prohibited unless coated in stucco or
a similar surface treatment.
         (c)   Fences may be constructed of metal (wrought iron or tubular
steel), wood, or vinyl. Chain link or similar fencing is prohibited per §
25.07.013 of this title.
         (d)   Fences and walls located along the side or rear property lines
which are not along street frontages shall be solid fences or walls. Open
fences, which feature wrought iron/tubular steel, may be permitted to capture
scenic views offered by a property line that adjoins a permanent open space
area, and where the yard does not require screening.
         (e)   Fencing between private yards and common open spaces shall be a
minimum of four feet in height.
         (f)   Where screening is necessary as part of the site design, block
walls may be constructed within the front yard setback and along the street
frontage, but must be decorative masonry, have a decorative cap, and feature a
landscape setback.
         (g)   Exterior trash, refuse storage, utility boxes, and electric and
gas meters shall be screened from the public right of way with landscaping,
fences, or walls.
      (2)   Refuse containers.
         (a)   Developments with four or fewer units may be designed so that
units are provided with individual refuse containers. Refuse containers must be
provided with a location to be stored which is out of view from pedestrian
walkways and internal and external roadways.
         (b)   In developments with five units or more, shared refuse
containers shall be provided, which shall be located within an enclosure or
building. The applicant shall provide the County with information from the
refuse pickup provider verifying the size and number of dumpsters required by
the projects.
         (c)   Refuse enclosures shall be a minimum of six feet tall and an
adequate size to accommodate the needed refuse and recycling containers.
         (d)   Refuse enclosures and gates shall be designed and made with
durable materials to withstand heavy use. Wheel stops or curbs shall be
installed to prevent dumpsters from banging into the walls of the enclosure.
         (e)   Lighting shall be provided at refuse enclosures for night-time
security and use.
         (f)   Refuse enclosures shall be located so that they are convenient
and close to the units they serve.
         (g)   The entrance of refuse enclosures shall not be visible from
public rights of way.
      (3)   Monument signage.
         (a)   One monument sign may be permitted on a site provided that the
site has a minimum street frontage of 75 feet in length. On corner lots, one
additional monument sign may be established provided that each street frontage
is at least 75 feet in length.
         (b)   The total sign area of a monument or pylon sign shall not exceed
80 square feet, with a maximum of 40 square feet per individual sign face.
         (c)   The maximum height of a monument sign shall not exceed six feet
measured from finish grade level to the uppermost edge of the sign cabinet.
         (d)   Monument signs shall be located at a distance of at least five
feet from the property line. This setback distance shall be measured from the
property line to the leading edge of the monument sign.
         (e)   All monument signs shall be architecturally compatible with the
building(s) on the site on which the monument sign is to be located.
(Ord. 1043 § 3 (part), 2022)
§ 25.08.006 MOBILE HOMES AND MOBILE HOME PARKS.
   (A)   Intent. For the purposes of this code, the terms “mobile home” shall
be synonymous with the term “manufactured housing.” Provisions allow mobile
homes to be installed on foundations in compliance with Cal. Gov’t Code §
65852.3, as amended, and continue to allow the installation of mobile homes not
on foundations in certain zone classifications. This code is intended to
supplement the provisions of this code relating to mobile homes but shall take
precedence over any portion of this code that is inconsistent with this
section.
   (B)   Findings. Pursuant to Cal. Gov’t Code § 65852.3, all lots zoned to
permit the construction of conventional single-family dwellings are compatible
for the installation of a mobile home on a foundation system that complies with
State of California standards.
   (C)   Mobile homes on foundations. A mobile home may be installed on a
foundation on any lot that is zoned to permit the construction of a
conventional single-family dwelling; subject to development standards of that
zone.
   (D)   Mobile homes not on permanent foundations. All specific mobile home
provisions in the various zone classifications refer to mobile homes not on a
permanent foundation system and shall continue in effect irrespective of the
fact that certain zones may then provide for mobile homes both on permanent and
on a foundation system designed in accordance with State of California
standards. For purposes of permit issuance, the mobile home on a foundation is
allowed whenever a conventional single-family dwelling is allowed, subject to
the requirements of this article. The mobile home not on a foundation is
allowed whenever it is specifically so provided in the various zone
classifications subject to any requirements set forth therein. When a mobile
home is not in conformance with the development standards of the zone
classification in which it is located, that mobile home constitutes a
nonconforming use, and as such cannot be altered except to comply with the
requirements of this article.
   (E)   Mobile home parks in residential zones.
      (1)   Standards. Mobile home parks shall comply with the following
requirements:
         (a)   Unit size. Each mobile home unit shall have a interior area of
at least 750 square feet, excluding patios, porches, garages, and similar
structures;
         (b)   Opaque skirt. The area between the ground level and floor level
and the unit shall be screened by an opaque skirt;
         (c)   Density. The average density of the mobile home park shall be in
conformance with the density of the underlying zone classifications, provided
that a density bonus of 25% of the density permitted by the underlying zoning
may be allowed if it is determined that the higher density is compatible with
the area in which the development is proposed to be located;
         (d)   Minimum size space. Notwithstanding division (E)(1)(c) above,
the minimum size of each space shall be 3,600 square feet, provided that a
minimum space size of 2,500 square feet may be permitted when deemed compatible
with the surrounding development. Each space shall have a minimum width of 30
feet;
         (e)   Wall. A masonry wall six feet in height shall be erected along
the perimeter of the mobile home park.
   (F)   Mobile homes in non-residential zones.
      (1)   Standards. A mobile home that is permitted in a non- residential
zone shall comply with the following requirements:
         (a)   The mobile home must be kept mobile and licensed pursuant to
state law;
         (b)   The mobile home may only be used by a caretaker or security
officer’s unit; and
         (c)   No more than one mobile home per parcel is permitted.
   (G)   Recreation and open space. Open space or recreation facilities are not
required for mobile home parks approved in residential zones.
(Ord. 1043 § 3 (part), 2022)
§ 25.08.007 CONGREGATE CARE RESIDENTIAL FACILITIES.
   (A)   Intent. Alternative housing opportunities for those persons capable of
independent living who do not need the level of care provided at convalescent
facilities may be provided, subject to the provisions of this section. This
article will provide needed housing for those persons who have been identified
as impacted groups by the county general plan. This section provides a standard
for distinguishing between congregate care residential facilities and other
multi-family uses.
   (B)   Development standards. The following standards of development shall
apply for congregate care residential facilities.
      (1)   Density. The allowable density for a project shall not exceed the
density permitted by the underlying zoning classification or the applicable
general plan land use category, whichever is less.
      (2)   Location. The project shall be located in accordance with all
applicable developmental and locational guidelines under the general plan and
shall be located in those areas which offer appropriate services for the
residents of these facilities, including necessary medical, transportation,
shopping, recreational, and nutritional programs.
      (3)   Elevators. No building shall be constructed that exceeds one story
in height unless it contains elevators for the use of the occupants. Elevators
shall be spaced in a manner which will minimize the walking distance from the
elevators to the residential units.
      (4)   Dwelling units.
         (a)   The net livable area for each unit shall not be less than 400
square feet for a studio unit, 550 square feet for a one-bedroom unit, and 700
square feet for a two-bedroom unit;
         (b)   Not less than 4% of the residential units shall be accessible
for the handicapped, and all other units shall be adaptable for the
handicapped. The handicap units shall be distributed equally throughout the
project. All handicap units shall meet the standards set forth in the
California Building Code (Cal. Code of Regulations, Title 24, Part 2);
         (c)   Kitchenettes may be permitted provided that they are sized to
meet the immediate needs of the occupants of the unit;
         (d)   No more than 30% of the units shall be studio units.
      (5)   Hallways and walkways. Hallways should be kept to a minimum length
to avoid the appearance of an oversized home or an institution. Paved
pedestrian walkways five feet in width shall be installed between the dwelling
units and the recreational areas of the project. All hallways and pedestrian
walkways shall be maintained with a minimum of five feet of unobstructed width
and adequate vertical clearance to provide unobstructed walking capability. Not
less than one accessible route for handicapped persons to all on-site
facilities shall be provided. Hallways shall be designed to accommodate the use
of walkers, canes, or other mechanical assistance.
      (6)   Open space and recreation facilities. Not less than 40% of the net
area of the project shall be used for open space, recreational facilities, or a
combination thereof. Not less than 25% of the required open space area shall be
used for active recreational facilities, such as pool, spa, tennis, and
gardening by residents. Recreational, public assembly, and similar buildings
may be permitted within the project if they are intended for the primary use of
persons residing within the project and are located so as not to be detrimental
to adjacent properties.
      (7)   Yard setbacks. Building setbacks from a project’s exterior streets
and boundary lines shall be the same as those prescribed by the zone in which
the project is located; however, in no case shall such building setbacks for
any project be less than those prescribed in the zoning district it is in. The
minimum building setback for interior drives and parking areas shall be ten
feet.
      (8)   Building height. The height of buildings shall not exceed that
which is permitted in the zone in which the project is located. The maximum
permitted height limits must be reduced if it is determined to be necessary for
a planned development to achieve compatibility with the area in which the
development is located.
      (9)   Trash areas. Adequate enclosed trash pickup areas, convenient to
the residents which they are intended to serve, shall be provided in the
project. Trash areas will be screened by a six-foot-high decorative block wall.
      (10)   Parking. The number of required automobile storage spaces shall be
determined at the time of the approval of the project; however, notwithstanding
any provision of this code to the contrary, a 20% reduction in the total number
of required vehicle parking spaces for residential purposes may be allowed if
appropriate, and an additional 5% reduction may be allowed if the applicant
proposes alternative senior citizen transportation programs; however, in no
case shall the reduction of parking spaces exceed 25% of the total spaces
required. Public street parking and tandem parking shall not be counted in this
requirement. All required parking spaces shall be located entirely within the
development, accessible to the units which they serve, and no parking space
shall be located more than 150 feet from the unit it is designed to serve.
Parking requirements for other facilities within the development may not be
reduced. Not less than 10% of the required parking spaces shall be designed and
designated for use by handicapped persons; however, there shall be at least one
designed and designated handicapped parking space provided for each handicapped
resident. Handicapped parking spaces shall be distributed evenly throughout the
parking areas.
      (11)   Access. The number and location of vehicular access openings into
a project shall be as specified by the Public Works Department.
      (12)   Supportive services. Services that support the residents shall be
provided. At a minimum, the following services shall be provided.
         (a)   Laundry facilities. One washing machine and dryer shall be
provided for every 20 rooms;
         (b)   Housekeeping and linen service. At a minimum, weekly service
shall be provided;
         (c)   Communications. A “panic button,” intercom, or other similar
device shall be provided in each room for communication with the central
office/security desk;
         (d)   Central dining. A central dining room shall be provided. The
size of the room shall be sufficient to accommodate the residents. The minimum
room size shall be the product of the proposed maximum number of residents in
the facility multiplied by five square feet per resident; however, in no
instance shall the central dining room be less than 350 square feet;
         (e)   Miscellaneous facilities. The following services are permitted
within a congregate care residential facility provided they do not exceed 5% of
the total square footage of the area in the building:
            1.   Barber and beauty services;
            2.   Religious facilities;
            3.    Commercial uses that are compatible with the proposed use and
provide a service to the residents. Such uses may be open to the general
public.
      (13)   Public transit access. Public transit shall be addressed in the
project’s design.
      (14)   Airport influence area. Proposed facilities shall not be located
within the airport influence area, as depicted on the maps included in the most
recently adopted version of the Hollister Municipal Airport Land Use
Compatibility Plan.
(Ord. 1043 § 3 (part), 2022)
§ 25.08.008 DAY CARE CENTERS.
   (A)   Purpose and applicability. This section establishes standards for the
location, development, and operations for new day care centers, as defined in
Chapter 25.09, where allowed in compliance with the use tables in
Chapter 25.03. This section provides standards for the location, development,
and operation of general day care facilities in compliance with state law.
These standards shall apply in addition to requirements imposed by the
California Department of Social Services and other regulatory agencies (e.g.,
Fire Department).
   (B)   Standards. All general day care facilities shall comply with all of
the following:
      (1)   Licensing. The operator of a general day care facility shall obtain
and maintain a valid license from the California Department of Social Services
in compliance with Cal. Code of Regulations, Title 22, Division 6 (Adult Day
Care Facilities).
      (2)   General day care facilities review standards. An application for a
general day care facility shall be reviewed by the responsible review authority
for compliance with the provisions of Cal. Health and Safety Code § 1597.46(a)
(3) and this section. The application may be approved only if the general day
care facility complies with applicable sections of the Cal. Health and Safety
Code, this section, all applicable county ordinances, and any regulations
adopted by the State Fire Marshal.
      (3)   Location. Day care centers are permitted per the use tables in
Chapter 25.03 of this title.
      (4)   Fences or walls required. Fences or walls shall provide for safety
with controlled points of entry.
      (5)   Drop-off/pick-up areas. Any general day care facility located on a
through street classified as a collector or arterial street shall provide a
drop-off and pick-up area that does not require backing into the street.
(Ord. 1043 § 3 (part), 2022)
§ 25.08.009 DAY CARE, LIMITED — SMALL FAMILY (EIGHT OR FEWER CHILDREN).
   All small family child day care homes shall comply with the applicable
provisions of Cal. Health and Safety Code Division 2, Chapter 3.6, §§ 1597.44
and 1597.45. Such facilities are exempt from county review and approval.
(Ord. 1043 § 3 (part), 2022)
§ 25.08.010 DAY CARE, LIMITED — LARGE FAMILY (UP TO 14 CHILDREN).
   All large family child day care homes shall comply with the applicable
provisions of Cal. Health and Safety Code Division 2, Chapter 3.6, §§ 1597.45
and 1597.46. Such facilities are exempt from county review and approval.
(Ord. 1043 § 3 (part), 2022)
§ 25.08.011 DRIVE-THROUGH AND DRIVE-IN FACILITIES.
   (A)   Purpose and applicability. This section provides standards for drive-
through and drive-in facilities, as defined in the Glossary and where allowed
in compliance with applicable zoning districts. Drive-throughs and drive-in
businesses shall be subject to all of the regulations applicable to a permitted
use in the zone in which such drive-through or drive-in business is located.
However, whenever the regulations of this section are more restrictive or
impose higher standards or requirements, the requirements of this section shall
control.
   (B)   Standards. Drive-through and drive-in facilities shall comply with all
of the following.
      (1)   Required findings. The Planning Commission shall make the following
findings in addition to other required findings of the conditional use permit
for a drive-through or drive-in business, in addition to standard findings
required for issuance of a conditional use permit:
         (a)   The proposed use complies with all requirements set forth for
the issuance of the required planning entitlement;
         (b)   The proposed use will not substantially increase vehicular
traffic on any street in a residential zone;
         (c)   The proposed use will not lessen the suitability of any nearby
commercially zoned property for commercial use by interfering with pedestrian
traffic;
         (d)   The proposed use will not create increased traffic hazards to
pedestrians when located near a school, place of worship, auditorium, theater
or other place of assembly; and
         (e)   Adequate conditions have been applied through the required
planning entitlement to prevent adverse impacts on surrounding properties with
respect to noise, trespass, and litter control.
      (2)   Circulation plan. A pedestrian and vehicular circulation plan shall
be submitted along with any required application submittal items. Such a plan
shall indicate how pedestrian and vehicular traffic will be separated to
provide for pedestrian safety. The plan shall also indicate how vehicles will
circulate to and through the drive-through or use drive-in facilities in a
manner that will not impede traffic flow on any public right-of-way.
      (3)   Setbacks. Additional setback requirements may be applied by the
responsible review authority were deemed necessary for the safety, welfare, and
protection of adjacent properties.
      (4)   Location of drive aisles. Drive-through aisles shall be inwardly
focused within the site and located away from adjoining streets, wherever
feasible.
      (5)   Pedestrian walkways. Pedestrian walkways (including ADA access
areas) shall not intersect the drive-through access aisles unless they have
clear visibility and are emphasized by enhanced paving or markings.
      (6)   No reduction in off-street parking. Parking for drive-through and
drive-in uses shall be provided as required by this title.
      (7)   Waiting and queuing vehicles.
         (a)   Drive-through access aisles shall be located entirely within the
property and shall be at least 175 feet in length, measured starting at the
pickup window. More stacking may be required, depending on the need of the
specific business as verified by a stacking study performed by a qualified
expert.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/fb9621aeb40cfcace25e7d8581ab7f5ecac73a18/
IMAGES/0-0-0-6851.png]
 
Drive aisle length is measured from the start of the drive aisle (A) to the
pickup window (B).
         (b)   Drive-through lanes shall be designed to avoid the blocking of
vehicle traffic, parking stalls and pedestrian access.
         (c)   No drive-through queuing is required for a drive-in business,
but access to the pickup window shall be designed to avoid the blocking of
vehicle access, parking stalls and pedestrian access.
      (8)   Menu and preview boards.
         (a)   Approval of a menu and preview board shall be subject to the
approval of a sign permit pursuant to the provisions found in §
25.07.016 before installation of any signs on the subject site.
         (b)   As practical, visibility of outdoor menu and preview boards
shall be minimized from any adjoining street(s). Additional landscape areas or
shrub plantings may be required to provide proper screening.
      (9)   Noise. Amplification equipment (speakers at menu boards, piped
music, etc.) shall be located so as not to adversely impact adjoining uses and
shall be operated in compliance with Title 19,
Chapter 19.39, Article IV (Sound Level Restriction) of the County Code.
      (10)   Wall and landscape buffer required when adjoining residential
uses. A minimum six-foot-high solid decorative masonry wall shall be
constructed on each property line that adjoins a parcel zoned for and/or
developed with a residential use, and a minimum six-foot-high solid masonry
wall shall be constructed on interior property lines for all zones. The design
of the wall and the proposed construction materials shall be subject to review
and approval through the site plan review process. A minimum five-foot-deep
landscaping strip shall be provided between the wall and any driveway.
      (11)   Lighting. All exterior lighting shall be arranged and shielded to
prevent any glare or reflection and any nuisance, inconvenience, and hazardous
interference of any kind on adjoining streets or property; and in accordance
with the provisions of the lighting section of the County Code.
      (12)   Deliveries. Delivery hours may be regulated through the
conditional use permit for the drive-through or drive-in use.
(Ord. 1043 § 3 (part), 2022)
§ 25.08.012 KENNELS AND PET SHOPS.
   (A)   Use permit required. Administrative use permits or conditional use
permits are required for kennels per the use tables in
Chapter 25.03 of this code.
   (B)   Animal keeping exempt from use permit requirement.
      (1)   The following are exempt from the requirement to obtain an
administrative use permit, but are subject to the animal keeping regulations in
Chapter 13 of the County Code:
         (a)   Veterinary hospitals.
         (b)   Public pounds.
         (c)   Public or private foster and adoption services or organizations.
      (2)   The following are exempt from the requirement to obtain a
conditional use permit:
         (a)   The keeping of five or fewer adult dogs.
         (b)   The keeping of 12 or fewer puppies.
         (c)   The keeping of nine or fewer adult cats.
         (d)   The keeping of 12 or fewer kittens.
         (e)   Veterinary hospitals.
         (f)   Public pounds.
   (C)   Setback standards. Setbacks shall be established for each individual
facility use through the use permit.
   (D)   Limit on number of dogs for hobby kennel. A hobby kennel may house up
to eight adult dogs and 12 puppies.
(Ord. 1043 § 3 (part), 2022)
§ 25.08.013 ANIMAL KEEPING AND NUMBER OF SMALL FARM ANIMALS, SMALL LIVESTOCK,
AND DOG AND CATS.
   (A)   General animal care standards. See Chapters 13.02 and 13.03 of the
County Code for standards related to the keeping of animals and the operations
of kennels and pet shops.
   (B)   Limits on animals: small farm animals. The following limits apply to
the number of small farm animals.
      (1)   “Keeping of small farm animals” is listed to the keeping of not
more than a total of 12 small farm animals in any combination of the following:
chicken hens; pigeons or similar fowl; crowing fowl; rabbits or similar
animals; ducks; geese; turkeys; goats; sheep or other livestock.
   (C)   Limits on animals: small livestock.
      (1)   Not more than a total of 12 small livestock in any combination.
      (2)   No more than one small livestock per acre shall be allowed.
   (D)   Limits on animals: cats and dogs.
      (1)   See “Hobby kennels” and “Kennels” for limits.
(Ord. 1043 § 3 (part), 2022)
§ 25.08.014 RECYCLING FACILITIES.
   (A)   Intent. The following provisions provide minimum development standards
for recycling facilities in San Benito County. These standards are designed to
provide appropriate development of recycling facilities pursuant to the 1986
California Beverage Container Recycling and Litter Reduction Act (Cal. Public
Resources Code §§ 14500 et seq.).
   (B)   Permitted zoning.
      (1)   State-certified reverse vending machines and mobile recycling units
shall be permitted in any commercial or industrial zone, provided that the use
is located within a convenience zone designated by the California Department of
Conservation.
      (2)   Recycling collection facilities shall be permitted per the use
tables in
Chapter 25.03.
   (C)   Development standards for reverse vending machines.
      (1)   Location. Reverse vending machines shall be established in
conjunction with supermarkets or other commercial or industrial uses which are
subject to approved development review or conditional use permits, and shall be
located within 30 feet of the entrance to the commercial or industrial
structure, without obstructing pedestrian or vehicular traffic, or occupying
parking spaces required by the primary use;
      (2)   Parking. No additional parking spaces for access or use shall be
required for reverse vending machines;
      (3)   Size. Reverse vending machines shall occupy no more than 50 square
feet of floor area per machine, and shall be no more than eight feet in height;
      (4)   Design. Reverse vending machines shall be constructed and
maintained with durable waterproof and rustproof material, and shall be clearly
marked to identify material to be deposited, operating instructions, and the
identity and the telephone number of the operator or responsible person to
contact in the event of machine malfunction or if the machine is inoperative;
      (5)   Signs. Signs shall have maximum surface area of four square feet;
      (6)   Maintenance. Units shall be maintained in a clean, litter-free
condition, and shall be sufficiently illuminated to ensure safe operations;
      (7)   Operating hours. Reverse vending machines shall have the same
operating hours as the primary use or other typical uses in the zone.
   (D)   Recycling collection facilities.
      (1)   Standards that apply to all zones:
         (a)   Collection facilities shall be set back at least 150 feet from
property in a residential zoning district or designated for residential use by
the general plan;
         (b)   Containers provided for after hours donation shall be set back
at least 50 feet from any property zoned or occupied for residential use and
shall be constructed of sturdy and durable materials.
      (2)   Standards that apply to the commercial zones:
         (a)   In the C-1 and C-2 Zones, the collection facility area shall at
least be enclosed by an opaque block wall or solid wood fence at least (6) six
feet in height and landscaped on all street frontages.
         (b)   Standards that apply to the manufacturing/industrial zones:
            1.   In the M-2 zone, collection facilities shall comply with the
setback, landscape, and structural requirements of the zone in which the
project is located.
         (c)   Storage of materials:
            1.   All exterior storage of materials shall be in sturdy
weatherproof and rustproof containers which are covered, baled, or palletized,
and which are secured and maintained in good condition;
            2.   Storage for flammable materials shall be in nonflammable
containers;
            3.   Storage for the recycling of oil shall be in containers
approved by the County Health Department.
         (d)   Parking. Parking shall be provided per §
25.07.010 of this code.
         (e)   Noise. The facility shall not exceed noise levels of 65 dBA as
measured at the exterior property line of residentially zoned property. In no
event shall the noise level exceed 75 dBA.
         (f)   Hours of operation. If the facility is located within 500 feet
of property zoned or designated for residential use pursuant to the General
Plan, it shall not operate between the hours of 7:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m.
         (g)   Signs. All on-site signs shall be in conformance with the
standards set forth in this code, and shall clearly identify the responsible
operating parties and their telephone numbers.
         (h)   Power-driven machinery. The use of power-driven machinery shall
be limited to state-approved reverse vending machines. In addition:
            1.   Machinery, which is necessary for the temporary storage,
efficient transfer, or securing of recyclable materials may be permitted with
the approval of development review;
            2.   Additional development requirements. Additional development
standards may be required as conditions of approval.
   (E)   Recycling processing facilities.
      (1)   Setbacks, landscaping and structural requirements shall comply with
the development standards of the underlying zone.
      (2)   Storage of materials.
         (a)   All outside storage of materials shall be in sturdy weatherproof
and rustproof containers which are covered, baled, or palletized; and which are
secured and maintained in good condition;
         (b)   Storage for flammable materials shall be in nonflammable
containers;
         (c)   Storage for the recycling of oil shall be in containers approved
by the County Health Department;
         (d)   Storage or placement of recyclable materials outside of
containers or mobile/recycling unit when attendant is not present is
prohibited;
         (e)   Containers shall be clearly marked to indicate the type of
material accepted for collection.
      (3)   Parking. Parking shall be provided on site for the peak load
circulation and parking of customers. If the facility is to service the public,
parking spaces shall be provided for a minimum of ten customers, or the peak
customer demand load, whichever is greater.
      (4)   Noise. The facility shall not exceed noise levels of 65 dBA as
measured at the exterior property line of residentially zoned property. In no
event shall the noise level exceed 75 dBA.
      (5)   Hours of operation. The facility shall identify the operator and
the hours of operation. If the facility is located within 500 feet of property
zoned or planned for residential use pursuant to the San Benito County general
plan, it shall not operate between the hours of 7:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m.
      (6)   Signs. All on-site signs shall be in conformance with the standards
set forth in the Signs chapter of this code and shall clearly identify the
responsible operating parties and their telephone numbers.
      (7)   Site condition. The site shall be maintained in a safe and litter-
free condition on a daily basis.
      (8)   Additional development requirements. Additional development
standards may be required as conditions of approval.
(Ord. 1043 § 3 (part), 2022)
§ 25.08.015 MINI-STORAGE FACILITIES.
   (A)   Intent. The following provisions provide minimum development standards
for mini-storage facilities. These standards are designed to provide for the
appropriate development of mini-storage facilities and to protect the health,
safety, and welfare of county residents using such facilities or who live or
conduct business adjacent to such facilities.
   (B)   Permitted zoning. Mini-storage facilities shall be allowed per
Chapter 25.03 of this code.
   (C)   Permitted uses. Mini-storage facilities shall be designed and operated
for the storage of goods in individual compartments or rooms, which are
available for use by the public on a rental or lease basis. In no case shall
storage spaces be used for manufacturing, retail or wholesale selling,
compounding, office functions, other business or service uses, or human
habitation.
   (D)   Development standards.
      (1)   Storage spaces. Individual storage spaces shall have a maximum
gross floor area of 500 square feet.
      (2)   Walls. A six-foot-high decorative masonry wall combined with an
earthen berm or landscaping to provide an eight-foot-high screen shall be
provided around the entire mini-warehouse land use, unless otherwise approved.
The rear and sides of mini-warehouse buildings may be used in place of portions
of the required wall where no individual storage units are accessible from the
building sides. The exterior side of all perimeter masonry walls and building
sides (if used in place of portions of the walls), shall be coated with a
protective coating that will facilitate the removal of graffiti.
      (3)   Lighting.
         (a)   All lighting shall be indirect, hooded, and positioned so as not
to reflect onto adjoining property or public streets;
         (b)   Lighting fixtures may be installed in each individual storage
space, provided that the fixtures shall not include or be adaptable to provide
electrical service outlets;
         (c)   Light fixtures shall be controlled by time switches located in
the respective individual storage unit with a maximum of 30 minute time limit
per activation.
      (4)   Fire safety. Fire suppression systems, extinguishers, etc., shall
be provided per the Fire Code.
      (5)   Alarms and security.
         (a)   Each mini-storage facility shall include an alarm system and
security cameras and recording equipment as approved by the County Sheriff.
         (b)   Emergency phone numbers, including police, fire, and the
operator’s, shall be posted in locations visible from outside and inside the
facility.
      (6)   Gates. All gates shall be decorative wrought iron, chain link,
other metal type, or wood. All metal type or wood gates must be painted in a
color which coordinates with the rest of the mini-warehouse development. All
gates shall be subject to review and approval to ensure adequate emergency
access.
      (7)   Landscaping. All street setbacks and walls serving as buffers
between the use and residentially zoned property shall be landscaped. This
landscaping shall include shrubs, trees, vines, or a combination thereof which
act to soften the visual effect of the walls. This landscaping shall be in
addition to and coordinated with the landscaping required for parking areas.
      (8)   Setbacks.
         (a)   No mini-storage building, structure or wall shall be located
closer than 20 feet from any street right-of-way;
         (b)   No building shall be located closer than 20 feet from any
residential zoned property. Walls shall be located so as to provide a buffer
between the residential zone and the mini-warehouse zone;
         (c)   All open areas, including interior setbacks, may be used for
driveways, parking, outdoor storage or landscaping.
      (9)   Caretaker’s residence. One caretaker’s residence may be included
within the site plan for a mini storage facility. Where a caretaker’s residence
is proposed, a minimum of two parking spaces shall be provided for the
caretaker’s residence in addition to those required for the mini-warehouse land
use.
      (10)   Prohibited materials. The following materials shall not be stored
in mini-storage facilities:
         (a)   Flammable or explosive matter or material;
         (b)   Matter or material which creates obnoxious dust, odor, or fumes;
         (c)   Hazardous or extremely hazardous waste, as defined by applicable
provisions of the Hazardous Waste Control Law (Cal. Health and Safety Code §§
25100 et seq.);
         (d)   Any other prohibited materials per state or federal law.
      (11)   Prohibited facilities.
         (a)   No water, sanitary facilities, or electricity, with the
exception of lighting fixtures, shall be provided in individual storage spaces;
         (b)   Prefabricated shipping containers shall not be used as mini-
storage facilities.
      (12)   Additional development requirements. Additional development
standards may be required as conditions of approval.
(Ord. 1043 § 3 (part), 2022)
§ 25.08.016 RENEWABLE ENERGY FACILITIES.
   (A)   Commercial solar energy systems. Commercial solar energy systems
designed to generate power for off-site use or for sale to an electric utility
shall be located, developed, and operated in compliance with the following
standards:
      (1)   Height, ground-mounted solar energy systems. The maximum height of
a ground mounted solar energy collector system is 25 feet or the maximum height
allowed in the base zone, whichever is less.
      (2)   Required setback. Solar energy systems less than six feet in height
may be installed within a required side and rear setback, but no closer than
three feet to any property line. All other solar energy systems shall meet the
required setback of the base zone.
   (B)   Wind energy systems, commercial and private non-commercial.
      (1)   Application. In addition to typically required information, an
application for a wind energy facility (WEF) shall include the following:
         (a)   Direction of prevailing winds across the project site;
         (b)   Manufacturer and model designation, rated kilowatt capacity,
overall machine height, total blade diameter, rated maximum rotor rotations per
minute, and other manufacture’s data sufficient to determine compliance with
this section;
         (c)   Location and type of security fencing and/or screening; and
         (d)   Proof of liability insurance.
      (2)   General requirements for all wind energy facilities.
         (a)   Development standards. Any type of WEF shall comply with the
development standards for the zone in which it is located unless otherwise
specified in this section.
         (b)   Height measurement. The height of any windmill or similar item
shall be measured to the top, including any blade when at its highest point.
         (c)   Setback measurement. Setbacks shall be measured to the outer
edge of a WEF, including any blade when at its maximum horizontal extension.
         (d)   Setbacks. Any WEF shall maintain the same minimum setbacks
required for a primary structure within the applicable zone.
         (e)   Colors and materials. Any WEF shall have a non-reflective finish
and shall be painted or otherwise treated to match or blend with the primary
background and minimize visual impacts.
         (f)   Advertising and graphics. No advertising, display, or graphic is
permitted on any WECS. A manufacturer’s identification label and/or any
government required identification or safety labels or signs may be affixed to
a facility or site in a discrete manner as feasible.
         (g)   Undergrounding required. All wiring or any associated and
ancillary equipment, batteries, devices, structures, or support(s) for any WEF,
shall be placed underground to the maximum extent feasible.
         (h)   Noise. WEFs shall comply with the noise provisions of the County
Code.
         (i)   Security and safety. WEFs shall be secured from access to the
general public by fencing or other deterring device or means as the County may
approve or require so the WECS is not an attractive nuisance. WEFs shall either
have tower climbing apparatus located not closer than 12 feet to the ground or
be un-climbable by design for the first 12 feet.
         (j)   Proof of liability insurance. The owner of any WEF shall
provide, as part of the permit application submittal, proof of liability
insurance that specifically addresses the installation, use, and maintenance of
the facility to the satisfaction of the County.
         (k)   Effects of development on productivity. The County shall not be
liable if subsequent development in the county impairs the productivity of any
WEF.
         (l)   Inoperative facility removal required. Any WEF that is not
operated for a continuous period of six months shall be considered abandoned. A
WEF and all equipment associated with an approved WECS shall be removed within
six months of the discontinuance of the use and the site shall be restored to
its original pre-construction condition, subject to the approval of the
Director.
      (3)   Private, non-commercial wind energy systems. A private, non-
commercial WEF shall be subject to the following standards.
         (a)   Location. A private, non-commercial WEF shall be located in the
rear portion of the property (i.e., between the primary structure and rear
property line). This provision may be modified by the County if strict
compliance would result in no or poor productivity, as established by evidence
provided by the applicant.
         (b)   Screening. If determined necessary by the County, a private,
non-commercial WEF shall be separated from adjoining properties by at least a
six-foot high solid fence or wall, or by trees and landscaping of equal minimum
height.
         (c)   Net-metering. A private, non-commercial WEF may be net-metered.
(Ord. 1043 § 3 (part), 2022)
§ 25.08.017 SURFACE MINING AND RECLAMATION.
   See
Chapter 19.13 of the County Code for standards and regulations related to
surface mining and reclamation.
(Ord. 1043 § 3 (part), 2022)
§ 25.08.018 FIRE SAFETY STANDARDS.
   (A)   Application. The provisions of this article shall apply when new
development is approved by a local jurisdiction.
   (B)   Fire systems required. Water systems for fire protection shall be
available on-site:
      (1)   Prior to the completion of road construction, where a community
water system is approved, or
      (2)   Prior to issuance of a building permit, where an individual system
is approved.
   (C)   Exceptions and appeals. Exceptions and appeals for any provision of
this article are allowed as defined in Cal. Public Resources Code §§ 4290 et
seq. and the variance procedure as outlined in this title. The exception or
appeal procedure must be finalized prior to filing for a variance with the
County.
   (D)   Conditions. To ensure continued maintenance of properties in
conformance with these standards and measures and to assure continued
availability, access and utilization of the defensible space provided for in
these standards during a wildfire, provisions for annual maintenance shall be
included in the development plans and/or shall be provided as a condition of
the permit, parcel or map approval.
   (E)   Road and safety standards.
      (1)   Road width. All roads shall be constructed to provide a minimum of
two nine-foot traffic lanes providing two-way traffic flow, unless other
standards are provided in this article or additional requirements are mandated
by local jurisdictions or local subdivision requirements.
      (2)   Roadway surface. The surface shall provide unobstructed access to
conventional drive vehicles, including sedans and fire engines. Surfaces should
be established in conformance with local ordinances and be capable of
supporting 40,000 and an HS-20 and alternate load. A minimum six-inch aggregate
base shall be used as a minimum standard where paving is not required.
      (3)   Roadway grades. The grade for all roads, streets, private lanes,
and driveways shall generally not exceed 15%. Exceptions may be may be allowed
by the local fire protection agency.
      (4)   Roadway radius.
         (a)   No roadway shall have a horizontal inside radius of curvature of
less than 50 feet and additional surface width of four feet shall be added to
curves of 50 to 100 feet radius; two feet to those from 100 to 200 feet.
         (b)   The length of vertical curves in roadways, exclusive of gutters,
ditches and drainage structures designed to hold or divert water, shall be not
less than 100 feet.
      (5)   Roadway turnarounds. Turnarounds are required on driveways and
dead-end roads as specified in this article. The minimum turning radius for a
turnaround shall be 40 feet from the centerline of the road. If a hammerhead/
T is used, the top of the “T” shall be a minimum of 60 feet in length. A
hammerhead/T at the end of a road shall only be allowed where the road terminus
is considered temporary.
      (6)   Roadway turnouts. Turnouts shall be a minimum of ten feet wide and
30 feet long with a minimum 25-foot taper on each end.
      (7)   Roadway structures.
         (a)   All driveway, road, street and private lane roadway structures
shall be constructed to carry at least the HS20 and “alternate” load and
provide 15 feet minimum vertical clearance.
         (b)   Appropriate signing, including but not limited to weight or
vertical clearance limitations, one-way road or single lane conditions, shall
reflect the capability of each bridge.
         (c)   A bridge with only one traffic lane may be authorized by the
local jurisdiction; however, it shall provide for unobstructed visibility from
one end to the other and turnouts at both ends.
      (8)   One-way roads.
         (a)   One-way roads are considered “fire apparatus access roads” as
defined in § 202 of the California Fire Code (Cal. Code of Regulations, Title
24, Part 9).
         (b)   All one-way roads shall be constructed to provide a minimum of
one ten-foot traffic lane. The local jurisdiction may approve one-way roads.
         (c)   All one-way roads shall connect to a two-lane roadway at both
ends, and shall provide access to an area currently zoned for no more than ten
dwelling units. In no case shall it exceed 2,640 feet in length.
         (d)   A turnout shall be placed and constructed at approximately the
midpoint of each one-way road.
      (9)   Dead-end public or private roads.
         (a)   Dead-end public or private roads are “fire apparatus access
roads” as defined in § 202 of the California Fire Code (Cal. Code of
Regulations, Title 24, Part 9).
         (b)   The maximum length of a dead-end road, including all dead-end
roads accessed from that dead-end road, shall not exceed the following
cumulative lengths (in feet), except as provided below:
Table 25.08-A
Fire Hazard Category
 
Zoning District   LRA   Mod.  High Very High
RM, R-1, RR, C, M 800   800   800  600
RT                1,320 1,000 800  600
R, AP             2,640 1,000 800  600
AR                5,280 1,000 800  600
 
         (c)   All lengths shall be measured from the edge of the roadway
surface at the intersection that begins the road to the end of the road surface
at its farthest point. Where a dead-end road crosses areas of differing zoned
parcel sizes, requiring different length limits, the shortest allowable length
shall apply. The lengths specified in the LRA shall not be exceed. However, the
further restrictions in the categories of moderate, high and very high, may be
exceeded up to the LRA lengths if mitigations satisfactory to CDF are provided.
Mitigations that may be considered include, but are not limited to, NFPA-
approved structure fire sprinkler systems, open-ended cul-de-sac design, fire-
resistant construction materials (roof and structure) and secondary emergency
access to standards set in this section.
            1.   Where parcels are zoned five acres or larger, turnarounds
shall be provided at a maximum of 1,320 intervals.
            2.   Each dead-end road shall have a turnaround constructed at its
terminus.
      (10)   Driveways. All driveways shall provide a minimum ten-foot traffic
lane and unobstructed vertical clearance of 15 feet along its entire length.
         (a)   Driveways are “fire apparatus access roads” as defined in § 202
of the California Fire Code (Cal. Code of Regulations, Title 24, Part 9).
         (b)   Driveways exceed 150 feet in length, but less than 800 feet in
length, shall provide a turnout near the midpoint of the driveway. Where the
driveway exceeds 800 feet, turnouts shall be provided no more than 400 feet
apart.
         (c)   A turnaround shall be provided at all building sites on
driveways over 300 feet in length and shall be within 50 feet of the building.
      (11)   Roadside vegetation. Roadside vegetation contributing to
significant risk shall be removed for a distance of ten feet on each side of
the traveled section, where required by the fire protection agency. In order to
protect escape routes from radiant heat caused by wildfires, native vegetation
should be thinned and dead material removed on each side of roads or highways.
This may reduce radiant heat from a wildfire to an acceptable level.
      (12)   Gate entrances.
         (a)   Gate entrances shall be at least two feet wider than the width
of the traffic lane(s) serving that gate.
         (b)   All gates providing access from a road to a driveway shall be
located at least 30 feet from the roadway and shall open to allow a vehicle to
stop without obstructing traffic on that road.
         (c)   Where a one-way road with a single traffic lane provides access
to a gated entrance, a 40-foot turning radius shall be used.
         (d)   A lock or other device that allows emergency vehicles unlimited
access shall be installed on all gates, including electronic gates.
      (13)   Size of letters, numbers and symbols for street and road signs.
Size of letters, numbers, and symbols for street and road signs shall be a
minimum three-inch height, three-eighths inch stroke, reflectorized and
contrast with the background color of the sign.
      (14)   Visibility and legibility of street and road signs. Street and
road signs shall be visible and legible from both directions of vehicular
travel for a distance of at least 100 feet.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/fb9621aeb40cfcace25e7d8581ab7f5ecac73a18/
IMAGES/0-0-0-6853.png]
 
Required street and road visibility.
      (15)   Height of street and road signs. Height of street and road signs
shall be uniform county wide, and meet the visibility and legibility standards
of this article.
      (16)   Names and numbers on street and road signs. Newly constructed or
approved public and private roads and streets must be identified by a name or
number through a consistent county-wide system that provides for sequenced or
patterned numbering and/or non-duplicating naming. All signs shall be mounted
and oriented in a uniform manner. This section does not require any entity to
rename or renumber existing roads or streets, nor shall a roadway providing
access only to a single commercial or industrial occupancy require naming or
numbering.
      (17)   Intersecting roads, streets and private lanes. Signs required by
this article identifying intersecting roads, streets and private lanes shall be
placed at the intersection of those roads; streets, and/or private lanes.
      (18)   Signs identifying traffic access limitations. A sign identifying
traffic access of flow limitations, including but not limited to weight or
vertical clearance limitations, dead-end road, one-way road, or single lane
conditions, shall be placed:
         (a)   At the intersection preceding the traffic access limitation; and
         (b)   No more than 100 feet before the traffic access limitation.
      (19)   Installation of road, street and private lane signs. Road, street,
and private lane signs required by this article shall be installed prior to
final acceptance by the local jurisdiction of road improvements.
      (20)   Addresses for buildings. All buildings shall be issued an address
by the local jurisdiction that conforms to that jurisdiction’s overall address
system. Accessory buildings will not be required to have a separate address;
however, each dwelling unit within a building shall be separately identified.
      (21)   Size of letters, numbers and symbols for addresses. Size of
letters, numbers and symbols for addresses shall be a minimum three-inch letter
height, three-eighths inch stroke, reflectorized, contrasting with a background
color of the sign.
      (22)   Installation, location and visibility of addresses.
         (a)   All buildings shall have a permanently posted address, which
shall be placed at each driveway entrance and visible from both directions of
travel along the road. In all cases, the address shall be posted at the
beginning of construction and shall be maintained thereafter, and the address
shall be visible and legible from the road on which the address is located.
         (b)   Address signs along one-way roads shall be visible from both the
intended direction of travel and the opposite direction.
         (c)   Where multiple addresses are required at a single driveway, they
shall be mounted on a single post.
         (d)   Where a roadway provides access solely to a single commercial or
industrial business, the address sign shall be placed at the nearest road
intersection providing access to that site.
      (23)   General water standards.
         (a)   Intent. Emergency water for wildfire protection shall be
available and accessible in quantities and location specified in these
regulations, in order to attack a wildfire or defend property from a wildfire.
The emergency water may be provided in a fire agency mobile water tender, or
naturally occurring or man-made containment structure, as long as the specified
quantity is immediately available.
         (b)   General standards.
            1.   Water systems that meet or exceed the standards specified in
Public Utilities Commission of California (PUC) revised General Order #103,
adopted June 12, 1956 (corrected September 7, 1983, Decision 8309-001), Section
VIII Fire Protection Standards and other applicable sections relating to fire
protection water delivery systems, static water systems equaling or exceeding
the National Fire Protection Association (NFPA) Standard 1231, Standard on
Water Supplies for Suburban and Rural Fire Fighting, 1989 Edition, or mobile
water systems that meet the Insurance Services Office (ISO) Rural Class 8, 2nd
Edition 3-80, standard shall be accepted as meeting the requirements of this
article. These documents are available at CDF Ranger Unit Headquarters.
            2.   Nothing in this article prohibits the combined storage of
emergency wildfire and structural firefighting water supplies unless so
prohibited by local ordinance or specified by the local fire agency. Where
freeze protection is required by local jurisdictions, the protection measures
shall be provided.
      (24)   Hydrant/fire valve.
         (a)   The hydrant or fire valve shall be 118 inches above grade, eight
feet from flammable vegetation, no closer than four feet nor farther than 12
feet from a roadway, and in a location where fire apparatus using it will not
block the roadway. The hydrant serving any building shall be located at a
turnout or turnaround, along the driveway to that building or along the road
that intersects with that driveway.
         (b)   San Benito County has adopted two types of fire hydrants for use
in its protection area. The “county standard” hydrant is compatible with
Sunnyslope County Water District and the City of Hollister. The “wharf” hydrant
may be used only on private water systems (i.e., single-family dwellings, on
previously established lots), subdivision of more than one acre lots, minor
subdivisions and areas served by the San Benito County Water District. Planned
unit developments will require the use of “county standard” hydrants.
            1.   “County standard” hydrant specifications. All hydrants shall
meet AWWA C502 standards and shall have a six-inch inlet with one 4.5-inch
outlet and one 2.5-inch outlet.
            2.   “Wharf hydrant” specifications. Four-inch inlet, tapered IPT
female with one 2.5-inch NSHT male outlet, cap and chain with pentagon stem
nut.
            3.   Installation s. Installation will be done using standard
construction practices. Thrust blocks will be used at all pressure points. The
minimum bedding will require six inches of jetted sand backfill.
            4.   Identified. Each hydrant/fire valve or access to water shall
be identified by a reflectorized blue marker, with a minimum dimension of three
inches.
      (25)   Signing of water sources. Each hydrant/fire valve or access to
water shall be identified as follows:
         (a)   If located along a driveway, a reflectorized blue marker, with a
minimum dimension of three inches shall be located on the driveway address sign
and mounted on a fire-retardant post; or
         (b)   If located along a street or road:
            1.   A reflectorized blue marker, with a minimum dimension of three
inches, shall be mounted on a fire-retardant post. The signpost shall be within
three feet of the hydrant/fire valve, with the sign no less than three feet nor
greater than five feet above ground, in a horizontal position and visible from
the driveway; or
            2.   As specified in the State Fire Marshal’s Guidelines for Fire
Hydrant Markings Along State Highways and Freeways, May 1988.
      (26)   Setback for structure defensible space. All parcels one acre and
larger shall provide a minimum 30-foot setback for buildings and accessory
buildings from all property lines and/or the center of a road. As an
alternative, recorded evidence of a vegetation clearance easement of at least
30 feet width can be submitted for reduced setbacks.
      (27)   Disposal of flammable vegetation and fuels. Disposal, including
chipping, burying, burning or removal to a landfill site approved by the local
jurisdiction, of flammable vegetation and fuels caused by site development and
construction, road and driveway construction, and fuel modification shall be
completed prior to completion of road construction or final inspection of a
building permit.
      (28)   Greenbelts. Subdivisions and other developments that propose
greenbelts as a part of the development plan, shall locate the greenbelts
strategically, as a separation between wildland fuels and structures. The
locations shall be as approved by the inspection authority.
   (F)   Fire protection supply for water systems.
      (1)   Systems. In addition to the requirements for domestic water,
development projects shall be required to provide water systems for fire
protection demands. Additional flow will be required for high and very high
fire hazard zones. An additional 250 gpm shall be provided for systems where
the CC&Rs do not require Class A roof material, as defined by the Uniform
Building Code, on inhabited structures.
      (2)   Rural: Single-family dwellings on more than one acre; recreational
vehicle parks.
         (a)   500 GPM fire flow at minimum 20 psi
         (b)   660 feet hydrant spacing
         (c)   330 feet maximum distance from building envelopes
         (d)   Four-inch mains and valves (one to four lots)
         (e)   Six-inch mains and valves (five or more lots)
         (f)   Four-inch riser with a single “county standard” hydrant or wharf
hydrant for existing lots
      (3)   Residential: Single-family dwellings on one acre or less.
         (a)   500 GPM fire flow at minimum 20 psi.
         (b)   660 feet hydrant spacing.
         (c)   330 feet maximum distance from building envelopes.
         (d)   Six-inch mains and valves.
         (e)   Four-inch riser with a single “county standard” hydrant or wharf
hydrant for existing lots.
         (f)   Six-inch riser with a “county standard” hydrant (five or more
lots).
      (4)   Residential: Two single-family dwellings per acre.
         (a)   750 GPM fire flow at minimum 20 psi.
         (b)   660 feet hydrant spacing.
         (c)   330 feet maximum distance from building envelopes.
         (d)   County standard hydrant.
      (5)   Residential: Three or more single-family dwellings per acre; mobile
home parks.
         (a)   1,000 GPM fire flow at minimum 20 psi.
         (b)   300 feet hydrant spacing.
         (c)   330 feet maximum distance from building envelopes.
         (d)   County standard hydrant.
      (6)   Multiple Residential: Duplex, neighborhood business of one story.
         (a)   1,500 GPM fire flow at minimum 20 psi.
         (b)   330 feet hydrant spacing.
         (c)   County standard hydrant.
      (7)   Multiple Residential: Triplex, apartment, one- and two-story; light
commercial or light industrial; schools.
         (a)   2,000 GPM fire flow at minimum 20 psi.
         (b)   300 feet hydrant spacing.
         (c)   County standard hydrant.
      (8)   Multiple Residential: Three stories or higher; heavy commercial or
industrial.
         (a)   2,500 GPM fire flow at minimum.
         (b)   20 psi 300 feet hydrant spacing.
         (c)   County standard hydrant.
   (G)   Water storage capacities. Water storage capacities must be able to
provide the above fire flow for a two-hour duration, or meet the following
exceptions:
      (1)   Separately developed dwellings with an individual private water
supply will provide a minimum of five thousand gallons supply of water each
dedicated for fire suppression, or as calculated by the following formula,
whichever is greater (NFPA Standard 1231):
Single structure without exposure hazards
Total cu. ft. of structure/Occupancy Hazard Class x Construction Class #
Single structure with exposure hazards
Total cu. ft. of structure/Occupancy Hazard Class x Construction Class # x 1.5
      (2)   Lakes, ponds, swimming pools, streams or other water sources may be
used for fire protection resources as long as provisions are made for access to
the supply either by plumbing or fire engine access within 16 feet for drafting
purposes and the capacities equal the requirements above.
      (3)   When the property division is a total of four lots or less and the
topography, zoning and other conditions preclude its redivision or addition of
more parcels on the system, the source may not be less than the required
minimum storage of 20,000 gallons.
      (4)   The use of San Felipe water for fire protection is permissible in
lieu of other systems and storage if permitted by San Benito County Water
District. If the system is not located at an accessible location, the line must
be extended to a location that meets the (rural: single-family dwelling)
guidelines above. Improvement plans must be approved by the San Benito County
Water District and the County Fire Department.
      (5)   Residential sprinklers will reduce the needed water storage
capacities by 50%.
      (6)   Fire protection water systems operated by water companies under
regulations of the Public Utilities Commission shall comply with the standards
of PUC General Order #103 or Title 22 as applicable.
(Ord. 1043 § 3 (part), 2022)
§ 25.08.019 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATION FACILITIES.
   See Title 7 of the County Code for wireless telecommunication facility
regulations.
(Ord. 1043 § 3 (part), 2022)
§ 25.08.020 UNMANNED AIRCRAFT SYSTEMS SHIPPING/DELIVERY SERVICES.
   (A)   Intent. The purpose of the following provisions is to establish
regulations for the operation of any unmanned aircraft system (UAS) within the
boundaries of the County of San Benito, with the intent of preserving the
health, safety, welfare, and privacy of residents, businesses, and visitors.
   (B)   Permitted zoning for take-off and landing facilities of UAS.
Facilities for the takeoff and landing of unmanned aircraft are permitted
subject to the approval of a conditional use permit within the Commercial
Thoroughfare (C-1) Zone in accordance with
Chapter 25.03 of this code.
      (1)   The zoning requirement for UAS takeoff and landing facilities shall
not apply to the non-commercial use of UAS, or to publicly owned and operated
UAS.
      (2)   Any structures proposed for construction in connection with the
establishment of facilities for the takeoff and landing of UAS, will be subject
to development plan review pursuant to the requirement of §
25.02.001 of this code.
   (C)   Compliance with all applicable regulations. The takeoff, landing, and
operation of all UAS must comply the Code of Federal Regulations defined in 14
C.F.R. pt. 101 and 14 C.F.R. pt. 107, as well as any UAS regulations
administered by any state department of the State of California.
(Ord. 1043 § 3 (part), 2022)
§ 25.08.021 PUBLIC USES.
   This title shall not limit or interfere with the temporary use of any
property as a public voting place, or with the construction, installation or
operation by any public agency or private corporation of any power or
communication transmission and distributing line, or transportation line or
conduit, or of any incidental appurtenances to any of the above.
(Ord. 1043 § 3 (part), 2022)
§ 25.08.022 AGRICULTURAL EMPLOYEE (FARMWORKER) HOUSING.
   (A)   Applicability. Agricultural employee (farmworker) housing projects
that provide housing for at least five farmworkers and are proposed pursuant to
§ 17021.6 of the Employee Housing Act (Cal. Health and Safety Code § 17021.6)
are referred to as “EHA projects”. Eligible project types include employer-
provided farmworker housing or rural farmworker housing projects, of up to 12
dwelling units or up to 36 beds in group quarters (dormitory-style housing); or
a small project that provides housing for at least five farmworkers. EHA
projects may be for seasonal or temporary residency. EHA projects shall not
include any proposed land division (i.e., parcel map, subdivision map or
condominium map) for the purposes of creating a separate parcel for the EHA
project or EHA units.
   (B)   Agricultural employee project types. Agricultural employee
(farmworker) housing projects provide housing for five or more farmworkers
(“EHA projects”). EHA projects include the following project types:
      (1)   Employer-provided farmworker housing project.
         (a)   Five to 36 beds in group quarters designed for single adult
farmworkers; or
         (b)   Five to 12 dwelling units, mobile home/RV spaces, each designed
for occupancy by at least one farmworker and his/her household.
      (2)   Rural farmworker housing project.
         (a)   Five to 36 beds or five to 12 units for seasonal or temporary
occupancy; or
         (b)   Up to 12 mobile homes, manufactures homes, travel trailers, RVs
for permanent occupancy
      (3)   Small farmworker housing project.
         (a)   One to 4 dwelling units or mobile homes housing at least five
farmworkers and licensed by the enforcement agency.
   (C)   Required permits and approvals.
      (1)   Site development permit. In the AR and AP Zone districts, EHA
projects proposed are considered an agricultural use. Conditions of approval
may be imposed by the Director to ensure compliance with the standards of this
section, and the County, and with the Employee Housing Act (Cal. Health and
Safety Code Division 13, Part 1).
      (2)   Water and sanitation permits. EHA projects not connected to
community sewer or water shall obtain required county permits for proposed well
water and/or septic systems. EHA projects on well water that meet the
definition of public drinking water system shall comply with State Water
Resources Control Board Standards.
      (3)   Building permits. EHA projects shall obtain building permits or
other required permits, depending on type of housing accommodations proposed
for the project. For EHA projects consisting of two to four mobile or
manufactured homes (not on a permanent foundation system) or recreational
vehicles, or spaces for two to four mobile homes or recreational vehicles (a
“trailer park”), HCD is the permitting agency. For EHA projects of five to 12
spaces, mobile homes, or recreational vehicles, the County is the permitting
agency.
      (4)   Recorded covenant. The site development permit shall include a
condition of approval for the property owner to record a farmworker housing
covenant with the County to provide constructive notice of and ensure owner’s
compliance with the requirements of this section of the County Code, the
Employee Housing Act, and their license.
      (5)   License. EHA projects shall obtain and Maintain a license to
operate the proposed farmworker housing from the enforcement agency pursuant to
§§ 17030-17039 of the Act (Cal. Health and Safety Code §§ 17030—17039). The
enforcement agency in the county is the Department of Environmental Health.
         (a)   Applicants shall apply for the license at least 45 days before
initial occupancy, after the site development permit and any required building
or other ministerial permits have been obtained for the project. The
application form is available from the enforcement agency and requires
applicant to provide all information listed in § 17032 of the Employee Housing
Act (Cal. Health and Safety Code § 17032).
         (b)   Applicant shall submit a letter requesting a modification to the
license whenever there is a change in any of the information provided on the
license application form, such as a reduction or increase in the number of
units or beds occupied by farmworkers, or any other information on the form.
         (c)   Licenses are issued for a one-year period and subject to annual
monitoring by the enforcement agency. Applicant shall submit a letter each year
requesting an annual renewal of the license for as long as the housing
continues to be operated as employee housing.
         (d)   Any operator of an EHA project that fails to obtain or maintain
the required license for the project shall be subject to the penalties of §
17037 of the Employee Housing Act (Cal. Health and Safety Code § 17037),
including in some cases a requirement to pay double or ten times the applicable
licensing fees.
         (e)   Certificate of non-operation. If the EHA project ceases to be
occupied by farmworkers, the operator shall submit a letter certifying non-
operation to the enforcement agency within 30 days, noting the date on which
the housing ceased to be occupied, consistent with § 17037.5 of the Employee
Housing Act (Cal. Health and Safety Code § 17037.5). The certification of non-
operation shall be submitted to the enforcement agency annually for two years
following discontinuation of the use of any area or structure on the property
identified in operator’s license as farmworker housing. The certification shall
attest under penalty of perjury that the farmworker housing has been destroyed,
or is no longer owned and operated, or has not been and shall not be occupied
by five or more employees during the calendar year. Operator shall send a copy
of the certification of non-operation to the County Planning Department
concurrently with delivery to the enforcement agency.
         (f)   Environmental review. EHA projects are subject to environmental
review (“CEQA”). The Cal. Public Resources Code provides some exemptions to
CEQA that may apply to certain types of farmworker housing defined herein.
   (D)   Development standards and criteria. EHA projects shall comply with
development standards of the zone districts in which they are located, as well
as the additional standards and criteria provided below. In the event of any
conflict between
Chapter 25.03 and the standards and criteria provided in this section, those in
this section shall prevail.
      (1)   Density limitations. EHA projects proposed in agricultural zones
are considered an agricultural use pursuant to the Act and as such are not
subject to the residential density limitations set forth in the general plan or
zoning code.
      (2)   Unit size. The maximum habitable floor area for a dwelling unit
intended for occupancy by a single farmworker household (individual farmworker
or farmworker family) in an EHA project shall not exceed the following,
measured in square feet (SF) as shown below.
   Maximum Habitable Floor Area
 
Unit Size           Maximum Habitable Floor Area
Studio or 1 bedroom 640 SF
2 bedrooms          800 SF
3 bedrooms          1,200 SF
4 or more bedrooms  1,400 SF
 
      (3)   Group quarters. Structures designed as group quarters or
dormitories shall provide at least 50 square feet of habitable area per bed
(per occupant) within the dormitory structure.
      (4)   Height. Structures shall be limited to a height of 28 feet.
      (5)   Parking. EHA projects shall comply with the parking standards in §
25.07.010, except that the minimum number of spaces per unit or per bed in an
EHA project shall be as set forth below.
   Minimum Parking Spaces Required
 
Unit Size           Minimum Parking Spaces Required
Studio or 1 bedroom 1
2 or 3 bedrooms     2
4 or more bedrooms  2.5
Group quarters      0.5 per bed
 
      (6)   Parking exceptions.
         (a)   The Director may approve a reduction in required parking spaces
without a variance, if the applicant provides evidence to the Director’s
satisfaction that fewer parking spaces than otherwise required by this section
will be adequate for EHA project, such as where transit service or alternative
transportation is available or is provided by the operator.
         (b)   Alternate surfacing materials (e.g., base rock or gravel) may be
allowed for parking areas and/or accessways to the EHA, if the Director finds
that the alternate surfacing materials will help to preserve agricultural land,
and the surfacing will be installed and maintained in a manner that will
prevent erosion and will provide adequate drainage, and such alternate is
acceptable to other involved reviewing agencies.
      (7)   Siting. EHA projects shall be sited to avoid, to the extent
feasible, placing units or structures on prime agricultural land or other
productive soils, and to avoid or minimize exposure of occupants to hazards
associated with agricultural operations on the site or adjacent properties.
      (8)   Minimize disturbance. To the extent feasible, EHA projects shall be
sited on the least viable portion of the parcel or in such a way as to disturb
the least amount of productive farmland. Depending on site conditions, this may
be achieved by siting the EHA project near existing development on the site,
using existing site access, and minimizing the use of paving materials or other
impervious surfacing to the minimum necessary to accommodate the EHA project.
      (9)   Buffers. To the extent feasible, housing accommodations shall be
sited at least 50 feet from any active agricultural operations, including areas
subject to machine cultivation or pesticide application. If such distances are
not feasible, buffering techniques, such as fencing, screening with vegetation,
or other techniques may be used to provide a buffer between farmworker housing
and farming operations, subject to Department approval. Housing accommodations
shall not be located within 75 feet of any livestock barns, pens or similar
quarters of livestock or poultry, consistent with state regulations.
(Ord. 1043 § 3 (part), 2022)
§ 25.08.023 SINGLE-FAMILY FARMWORKER HOUSING.
   (A)   Intent. Single-family farmworker housing projects, at the applicant’s
option, may be proposed pursuant to § 17021.5 of the Act (Cal. Health and
Safety Code § 17021.5), in which case they are deemed a residential use and
subject to the same permitting requirements and development standards that
apply to a single-family dwelling proposed in the applicable zone, rather than
being deemed an agricultural use pursuant to §
25.08.022(A) above. All single-family farmworker housing projects that provide
housing for at least five farmworkers shall obtain a license from the
enforcement agency pursuant to the Act (Cal. Health and Safety Code Division
13, Part 1).
   (B)   Applicability. A small farmworker housing project of one to four
farmworker dwelling units per parcel, in addition to any primary residence and
accessory dwelling unit that may exist on the site, shall be processed as
follows:
      (1)   Small farmworker housing projects proposed to provide housing for
at least five individual farmworkers (i.e., at least one farmworker unit will
house more than one individual farmworker per unit) are considered an EHA
project and may be approved on a parcel in an agricultural zoning district,
subject to all provisions of this zoning code and the Act, including the
requirement to obtain a license.
      (2)   Small farmworker projects proposed to provide housing for four or
fewer individual farmworkers (at least one farmworker per proposed unit, not to
exceed four farmworkers total in the project) are not an EHA project and not
subject to the Act. Such projects may be approved in agricultural zones with an
administrative use permit pursuant to all requirements of §
25.08.022(D) above, except for the requirement to obtain or maintain a license.
In lieu of a license, such projects shall be subject to annual monitoring by
the Planning Department to verify the owner’s compliance with the recorded
farmworker housing covenant and project conditions of approval. If, upon
monitoring or in response to a complaint, any dwelling unit in such project is
determined to be non-compliant with the occupancy requirements set forth in the
farmworker housing covenant, after reasonable notice and opportunity to correct
the violation as set forth in County Code, the project permit may be revoked
and the unit(s) subject to enforcement pursuant to County Code Chapter 25.02,
possibly including abatement.
(Ord. 1043 § 3 (part), 2022)
§ 25.08.024 MEDICAL MARIJUANA DISPENSARIES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Medical marijuana dispensaries prohibited. The establishment,
development, construction, maintenance, or operation of a marijuana dispensary
is hereby prohibited, and is not a permitted use in any zoning district, even
if located within an otherwise permitted use. No person shall establish,
develop, construct, maintain, or operate a marijuana dispensary, and no
application for a building permit, use permit, variance, or any other
entitlement authorizing the establishment, development, construction,
maintenance, or operation of any marijuana dispensary shall be approved by the
County of San Benito or any officer or employee thereof.
   (B)   Definitions. The following definitions are used in this section.
      (1)   MARIJUANA DISPENSARY means any of the following:
         (a)   Any for profit or not-for-profit facility, building, structure,
premises, or location, whether fixed, mobile, permanent or temporary, where any
person(s) (including, but not limited to, any “primary caregiver(s),”
“qualified patient(s)” or “person(s) with an identification card”) makes
available, sells, gives, distributes, or otherwise provides marijuana to any
two or more other persons (including, but not limited to, any “primary
caregiver(s),” “qualified patient(s)” or “person(s) with an identification
card”) pursuant to Cal. Health and Safety Code §§ 11362.5 et seq. and/or §§
31362.7 et seq. or otherwise; or
         (b)   Any for profit or not-for-profit facility, building, structure,
premises, or location, whether fixed, mobile, permanent or temporary, where
qualified patients and/or persons with identification cards and/or primary
caregivers meet or congregate to make available, sell, give away, distribute,
or otherwise provide marijuana for medicinal or other purposes. MARIJUANA
DISPENSARY includes medicinal marijuana “cooperatives,” “collectives,” and/or
“clubs.”
      (2)   MARIJUANA DISPENSARY shall not include the following uses, as long
as the location of such uses is otherwise regulated by the County Code and
provided that any such use complies strictly with applicable law including, but
not limited to, Cal. Health and Safety Code §§ 11362.5 et seq. and §§ 11362.7
et seq. and the County Code, including, but not limited, to the zoning code
(Title 25 of the County Code).
         (a)   A clinic licensed pursuant to Cal. Health and Safety Code
Division 2, Chapter 1;
         (b)   A health care facility licensed pursuant to Cal. Health and
Safety Code Division 2, Chapter 2;
         (c)   A residential care facility for persons with chronic life-
threatening illness licensed pursuant to Cal. Health and Safety Code Division
2, Chapter 3.01;
         (d)   A residential care facility for the elderly licensed pursuant to
Cal. Health and Safety Code Division 2, Chapter 3.2;
         (e)   A residential hospice or a home health agency licensed pursuant
to Cal. Health and Safety Code Division 2, Chapter 8;
      (3)   The terms PRIMARY CAREGIVER, QUALIFIED PATIENT, PERSON WITH AN
IDENTIFICATION CARD, COOPERATIVE, and COLLECTIVE shall be as defined in
Proposition 215 (Cal. Health and Safety Code § 11362.5) and Senate Bill 420
(Cal. Health and Safety Code §§ 11362.7 et seq.).
      (4)   The word MARIJUANA shall have the same meaning as that set forth in
Cal. Health and Safety Code § 11018.
      (5)   The term MEDICAL MARIJUANA is marijuana used for medicinal purposes
in strict accordance with Cal. Health and Safety Code §§ 11362.5 and §§ 11362.7
et seq.
   (C)   Right to possess, use or cultivate marijuana. This section shall not
affect the right to possess, use or cultivate marijuana for medicinal purposes
as it is presently authorized by the laws of the State of California as set
forth in the Cal. Health and Safety Code, Cal. Penal Code, or other state law,
or by any federal law.
   (D)   Conflicting laws. To the extent that there is any conflict between the
provisions of this article and the provisions of any other county code,
ordinance, resolution, or policy, the provisions of this article shall prevail.
(Ord. 1043 § 3 (part), 2022)
§ 25.08.025 MINERAL RESOURCE AREA DEVELOPMENT REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Intent. The intent of these mineral resource area development
standards is to protect and manage natural resources that could be lost due to
the encroachment of incompatible land uses, while still allowing low-intensity
interim uses.
   (B)   Application.
      (1)   The regulations in this section apply to every parcel which is now
known as the “mineral harvest area” or is classified as a MR zone as defined by
the most recent mapping produced by the state Division of Mines and Geology.
      (2)   Mineral harvest areas and MR zones are not shown on the zoning map.
Maps from the Division of Mines and Geology should be consulted to determine if
these designations apply to a given parcel(s).
      (3)   The standards in this section supplement those of the underlying
zoning district(s). Where the standards in this section and those of the base
zone conflict, this section’s standards apply.
   (C)   Permitted uses. The following are permitted uses on land to which this
section applies. This list replaces the uses permitted by the underlying zoning
district.
      (1)   Agriculture.
      (2)   Horticulture.
      (3)   Grazing.
      (4)   Silviculture.
      (5)   Single-family dwelling.
      (6)   Structures or capital improvements incidental to the above.
      (7)   Uses similar to the above as determined by the Director or Planning
Commission per
Chapter 25.01 of this Code.
   (D)   Conditional uses. The following are conditional uses on land to which
this section applies. This list replaces the uses conditionally permitted in
the underlying zoning district.
      (1)   Mining mineral, petroleum, rock, sand, gravel, clay and similar
resources; and
      (2)   Low-intensity recreational uses.
   (E)   Building setbacks and other requirements. The setbacks and other
requirements for structures or uses on land to which this section applies shall
be established by the base zoning district except were modified by this
section.
   (F)   Mining of natural resources. For regulations related to the mining of
natural resources, see
Chapter 19.13 Surface Mining Operations and Reclamation of the San Benito
Municipal Code.
(Ord. 1066 § 3 (part), 2024)
Editor’s note:
   Prior ordinance history: Ord. 1043.
§ 25.08.026 FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS.
   (A)   Intent.
      (1)   The intent of the floodplain development standards is to protect
structures from flood hazards by ensuring that development in floodplain areas
is properly located and constructed.
      (2)   Floodplain areas are those areas shown on the Flood Insurance Rate
Map, published by the United States Federal Emergency Management Agency, or its
successor, as adopted by the San Benito County Board of Supervisors.
      (3)   The standards in this section supplement those of the underlying
zoning district(s). Where the standards in this section and those of the base
zone conflict, this section’s standards apply.
   (B)   Areas subject to floodplain development standards.
      (1)   The standards in this section apply to all areas designated as
floodplain on the latest Flood Insurance Rate Maps produced by the Federal
Emergency Management Agency.
      (2)   Floodplain areas are not shown on the zoning map. The latest FEMA
maps should be consulted to determine if this section applies to a given parcel
(s).
   (C)   Permitted uses. The uses permitted in floodplain areas shall be those
of the base zoning district.
   (D)   Conditional uses. Conditional uses in floodplain areas shall be those
of the base zoning district.
   (E)   Building site area. Building site area in the floodplain shall be as
listed in the base zoning district.
   (F)   Height limitations, yard areas, parking and landscaping. Height
limitations, yard areas, parking and landscaping in floodplain areas shall be
as listed in the base zoning district.
   (G)   Submittal of construction plans; required flood elevation.
      (1)   All development shall conform with the standards of the floodplain
management ordinance or its successor.
      (2)   Each property owner or his or her agent who proposes a project for
which a building permit is required in a floodplain area shall, prior to
approval thereof, submit plans prepared by a civil engineer, licensed by the
State of California. The plans shall establish the living area, manufacturing
area or storage area of any structure for which a building permit is required
at a minimum of one foot above the 100-year flood elevation. The Director may
require evidence from an engineer to assist in the determination.
      (3)   The engineer preparing the plans shall, on the building site,
provide the Building Inspection Department, at a location acceptable to the
Building Inspection Department, a reference to the required elevation that will
enable the building department to determine that the required flood elevation
is adhered to. The County Building Inspector shall require, and a developer
shall provide, written certification from the responsible engineer that the
required flood elevation has been met.
   (H)   Alternative to required elevation. As an alternative to the
construction of buildings one foot above the floodplain as provided herein, the
site of the buildings may be raised to the required elevation or the site
protected by a levee or berm constructed to the elevation necessary to afford
adequate protection. The alternatives shall be subject to the terms of the
County’s grading and erosion control ordinance and floodplain management
ordinance or its successor. In either case, plans and specifications for
modifications and protection of the site prepared by a licensed civil engineer
shall accompany the plans for the building, and, prior to the issuance of a
building permit, the site improvement shall be completed and certified in
writing by the engineer as having been constructed to prevent flooding. In
addition, evidence shall be submitted by a licensed civil engineer that flood
hazard is not increased off-site as a result of any development on the
property.
   (I)   Exemption for existing residences. Single-family residences and
related accessory structures lawfully existing in the floodplain at the time
the ordinance codified in this title becomes effective shall be allowed to
remain subject to the restrictions set forth in §
25.01.012 of this code.
(Ord. 1043 § 3 (part), 2022)
§ 25.08.027 SCENIC HIGHWAY CORRIDOR DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS.
   (A)   Intent.
      (1)   The intent of these scenic highway corridor development standards
is to preserve the scenic qualities of the county along scenic highways.
      (2)   The standards in this section supplement those of the underlying
zoning district(s). Where the standards of this section and those of the base
zone conflict, this section’s standards apply.
   (B)   Scenic highway corridors.
      (1)   The scenic highway corridor development standards shall apply to
all lands meeting the following criteria:
 
Designated Highway                     Corridor Width
All of State Highway 101               All land 400 feet on either side of the
                                       centerline of the road
A portion of State Highway 129 as      All land 340 feet either side of the
designated on the county general plan  centerline of road
map
All of State Highway 146 as designated All land 340 feet either side of the
on the county general plan map         centerline of road
 
      (2)   The areas described above are not shown on the zoning map. Parcels
proposed for development which are adjacent to or near any of the designated
highways should be checked to determine whether this section applies.
   (C)   Permitted and conditionally permitted uses. The uses permitted and
conditionally permitted in scenic highway corridors shall be those permitted in
the base zoning district, except as provided in this section.
   (D)   Prohibited uses. The following uses are prohibited in a scenic highway
corridor, even if permitted by the underlying zone.
      (1)   Uncovered or unscreened storage areas excluding agricultural uses;
      (2)   Off-premises advertising;
      (3)   Free-standing signs except for one sign per entrance identifying
the ranch, farm or homesite; and
      (4)   Flashing or moving signs.
   (E)   Development standards. Building heights shall not exceed and setback
requirements shall not be less than those of the base zoning district.
   (F)   Development review required.
      (1)   All new construction in a scenic highway corridor requires minor or
major development review, including development defined as exempt from
development review in §
25.02.001.
      (2)   Development review shall seek to ensure that new construction is
consistent with the intent of the scenic highway designations.
   (G)   Special sign standards. The following standards for signs apply in the
scenic highway corridor, and replace standards which would otherwise apply in
the underlying zoning district.
      (1)   One identification sign per entrance for a ranch, farm or homesite
is permitted.
      (2)   One sign per business establishment is permitted.
      (3)   Temporary signs advertising the sale of local agricultural
commodities are permitted.
   (H)   Grading and screening.
      (1)   Recognizing that grading can have significant adverse impacts
within scenic areas the County shall carefully review all projects involving
grading within scenic corridors. The proposed project shall be relocated,
modified, redesigned or, if no alternative, screened to minimize visual impacts
of grading operations seen from any scenic highway. County staff shall make
final contour and landscaping recommendations to minimize visual impact of
grading on the scenic corridor in accordance with the County’s grading
ordinance.
      (2)   Vegetative cover and other screening devices shall be provided to
hide grading scars and to blend with the natural landscape and provide erosion
control.
   (I)   Landscaping. All landscaping in the scenic highway corridor shall be
compatible with local vegetation and ground forms. Indigenous plants and
grasses shall be used where appropriate and possible as a means of
reestablishing the natural landscape.
   (J)   Utility lines. County staff shall review applications and provide
mitigation measures to minimize visual impact of utility lines on scenic
highway corridors. All new electric and communication distribution facilities
shall be placed underground whenever feasible.
(Ord. 1043 § 3 (part), 2022)
§ 25.08.028 SEISMIC SAFETY DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS.
   (A)   Intent.
      (1)   The intent of these seismic safety development standards is to
ensure that development in areas subject to seismic hazards is properly located
and designed to protect life and property.
      (2)   The standards in this section supplement those of the underlying
zoning district(s). Where the standards of this section and those of the base
zone conflict, this section’s standards apply.
   (B)   Areas subject to seismic safety development standards.
      (1)   The development standards in this section shall apply to all areas
designated as Alquist Priolo Special Study Zones by the State of California
Department of Conservation.
      (2)   These areas are not shown on the zoning map. The latest maps from
the State of California Department of Conservation should be checked to
determine whether this section applies.
   (C)   Permitted uses. The uses permitted, conditionally permitted, and
prohibited in an Alquist Priolo Special Study Zone shall those of the base
zoning district.
   (D)   Locational standards. The following standards apply to all new
construction in an Alquist Priolo Special Study Zone:
      (1)   Except as to structures for human occupancy excluded under the Cal.
Public Resources Code §§ 2621 et seq., no building to be used for human
occupancy shall be placed across an active fault trace. For purposes of this
section, the area within 50 feet of an active fault trace shall be assumed to
be underlain by active branches of that fault trace unless and until proven
otherwise by an appropriate geological investigation and submission of a report
by a geologist registered in the State of California.
      (2)   For buildings over two stories high, buildings of an emergency
nature such as hospitals, fire stations and police stations and buildings of
high occupancy such as auditoriums, schools, theaters, stadiums and similar
uses, the minimum required distance from a known active fault trace shall be
300 feet.
      (3)   The Planning Commission shall have power to increase this distance
where there is geologic evidence that a greater distance is required for the
protection of any building or structure or for the safety of its occupants.
   (E)   Geologic report required.
      (1)   Except as to structures for human occupancy excluded under Cal.
Public Resources Code §§ 2621 et seq., applications for all uses which will
result in the construction of buildings for human occupancy shall be
accompanied by a geologic report directed to the potential for surface fault
displacement throughout the site.
      (2)   The report must be prepared by a geologist registered in the State
of California and be in conformance with the Alquist-Priolo Special Studies
Zone Act of 1972. If the use would result in an undue hazard to life or
property, it shall not be approved. If doubt exists as to the hazard, approval
may be withheld pending geologic and engineering studies to adequately define
the zone of hazard.
      (3)   If, on appeal, the Planning Commission or Board of Supervisors
finds that no undue hazard exists, geologic and engineering studies may be
waived with approval of the state geologist.
      (4)   Requirements for geologic reports may be satisfied for single- and
two-family dwellings if, in the judgment of technically qualified county
personnel and the approval of the state geologist, sufficient information is
available from previous studies in the same area.
(Ord. 1043 § 3 (part), 2022)
§ 25.08.029 TINY HOMES.
   (A)   Tiny home defined. A TINY HOME is a small towable residential unit
that is not on a permanent foundation and is towable for moving from place to
place.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/fb9621aeb40cfcace25e7d8581ab7f5ecac73a18/
IMAGES/0-0-0-6855.png]
 
A typical Tiny Home, shown without required skirting.
   (B)   Where permitted. Tiny homes are permitted in all zoning districts that
allow residential dwellings or ADUs, per
Chapters 25.03 and
25.08 of this code.
   (C)   Tiny home standards. Tiny homes shall be allowed as primary
residential dwelling unit or an accessory dwelling unit (ADU) subject to all of
the following:
      (1)   Development standards. A tiny home shall conform with the following
requirements:
         (a)   Height.
            1.   A tiny home shall have a maximum height of 14 feet when being
towed, per Cal. Vehicle Code § 35250. A tiny home may exceed 14 feet in height
when the tiny home is placed on a lot, provided that the height limit is not
exceeded when the tiny home is moved on public roadways.
            2.   The overall height of a static tiny home shall be per the
standards for the zone in which the tiny home is located, either as a primary
dwelling unit or an accessory dwelling unit.
         (b)   Setbacks. A tiny home shall comply with the development
standards of the zoning district in which it is located. When used as an ADU,
setbacks shall comply with the standards for ADUs as shown in §
25.08.002.
         (c)   Minimum and maximum size. Minimum size: 150 gross square feet.
Maximum size: 400 gross square feet.
         (d)   Number of tiny homes allowed. The number of tiny homes permitted
on a lot or parcel as a primary dwelling unit shall be determined per the
standards of the zoning district in which the tiny home(s) is located. Tiny
homes used as accessory dwelling units shall not count toward maximum density,
per the standards of this code.
         (e)   Parking. Tiny homes shall be subject to the same parking
requirements as other residential dwelling units or accessory dwelling units.
      (2)   Design. A tiny home shall maintain a residential appearance through
the following design standards.
         (a)   Skirting. The undercarriage, including wheels and axles, shall
be hidden from view with a solid wood, metal or concrete apron.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/fb9621aeb40cfcace25e7d8581ab7f5ecac73a18/
IMAGES/0-0-0-6857.png]
 
A Tiny Home with skirting installed
         (b)   Roof pitch. Roofs shall have a minimum of a 1:12 pitch for at
least 50% of the roof area.
         (c)   Foundation or pad. A paved parking pad shall be required,
including bumper guards, curbs, or other installations adequate to prevent
movement of the unit. Alternative paving methods may be permitted at the
discretion of the Planning Director. A tiny house may rest on the wheels, or on
stands anchored to the parking pad.
         (d)   Mechanical equipment. Mechanical equipment shall be incorporated
into the structure and not be located on the roof (except for solar panels).
         (e)   Materials. Materials for the exterior wall covering shall
include wood, HardiePanel or equivalent material as determined by the Planning
Director. Single piece composite laminates, interlocked metal sheathing, or
similar materials are prohibited.
         (f)   Windows. Windows shall be double pane glass or better, labeled
for building use, and be trimmed out.
         (g)   Utility connections. A tiny home shall be connected to approved
water and sewer utilities through dedicated pipes. A tiny home may use on- or
off-grid electricity and may use propane for heating and cooking. Generators
are prohibited except when needed in emergencies. All tiny homes shall have a
GFI shutoff breaker.
   (D)   Applicable codes.
      (1)   Tiny homes shall meet either the provisions of ANSI 119.5 or NFPA
1192.
      (2)   Tiny homes shall be licensed and registered with the California
Department of Motor Vehicles.
   (E)   Annual fire inspection required. Tiny homes require a yearly
inspection by the Fire Marshall.
(Ord. 1043 § 3 (part), 2022)
§ 25.08.030 [RESERVED]
§ 25.08.031 LOW IMPACT CAMPING.
   This section refers to uses classified as low impact camping as described in
Chapter 25.09. Such uses are subject to the regulations below. This includes
tent camping, glamping, dry RV camping, yurts, or something similar.
   (A)   Location and site regulations. In accordance with
Table 25.03-B of this title, low impact camping is permitted in the AR, AP, R,
RR, and RT zones subject to the following:
      (1)   Acreage requirements per accessor parcel number (APN):
         (a)   One campsite per acre up to nine campsites.
      (2)   No more than six campers permitted per campsite.
      (3)   Campsites shall be set back a minimum of 100 feet from property
lines.
      (4)   The property owner shall maintain sanitation facilities that are
fully self-contained or connected to a permitted sewage disposal system serving
the property. At least one ADA restroom shall be required.
      (5)   All solid waste shall be removed from the premises after each
occupancy, and onsite trash receptacles shall abide by applicable animal-
protection trash best practices or requirements.
      (6)   No on-street parking shall be permitted in connection with a low
impact camping site.
   (B)   Operational regulations. All low impact camping areas shall be
operated in the following manner:
      (1)   Temporary sleeping accommodation only.
         (a)   No temporary sleeping accommodation shall be used for permanent
human occupancy.
         (b)   Temporary sleeping accommodations shall not exceed 14
consecutive nights per camper.
      (2)   Noise. All low impact camping facilities shall comply with
Chapter 19.39 – Noise Control Regulations of the San Benito Municipal Code.
Specifically, no amplified sound equipment or live music shall be permitted
between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m.
      (3)   On-site manager. A designated on-site operator or manager shall be
available by phone 24 hours per day, seven days per week.
      (4)   Communal/recreational fire pits.
         (a)   There can be only one communal wood burning fire pit per APN and
shall be operated by the site manager or property owner. The site manager or
property owner shall take all necessary training for the Fire Department or
CalFire to operate.
         (b)   Communal and recreational fires and fire pits shall comply with
the following:
            1.    Recreational fires are not to be wider than three feet in
diameter and two feet in height.
            2.    Recreational fires shall not be conducted within 25 feet of a
structure or combustible materials.
            3.   Open burning, bonfires or recreational fires shall be
constantly attended until the fire is extinguished. A minimum of one portable
fire extinguisher with a minimum 4-A rating or other approved on-site fire-
extinguishing equipment, such as dirt, sand, water barrel, garden hose or water
truck, shall be available for immediate utilization.
            4.   Portable outdoor fireplaces and barbeques shall be used in
accordance with the manufacturer’s instructions and shall not be operated
within 15 feet of a structure or combustible materials.
      (5)   The business license holder shall obtain and maintain in good
standing a certificate issued from the Tax Collector/Auditors Office for
transient occupancy tax (TOT), whether the business license holder collects TOT
directly or through a third-party platform.
(Ord. 1066 § 3 (part), 2024)
CHAPTER 25.09: GLOSSARY
Section
   
25.09.001   Using the definitions
   
25.09.002   Definitions
§ 25.09.001 USING THE DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   This chapter provides definitions of terms used in the zoning code.
For regulations, see the other sections of this code dealing with the topic
defined.
   (B)   The following apply to the interpretation of words:
      (1)   When not inconsistent with the context:
         (a)   All words used in the present tense include the future tense.
         (b)   All words in the singular include the plural.
         (c)   Words in the plural include the singular.
      (2)   The masculine gender includes the feminine and neutral gender.
      (3)   The word SHALL is always mandatory. The word MAY is permissive.
      (4)   For words not defined, the common dictionary definition shall be
used.
      (5)   Where a definition in this chapter conflicts with the common
dictionary definition, the definition in this chapter shall apply.
(Ord. 1043 § 3 (part), 2022)
§ 25.09.002 DEFINITIONS.
   ABATTOIR. A facility used for the slaughter of animals and the processing
and/or packaging of meat for sale. Also known as a SLAUGHTERHOUSE.
   ACCESS ROAD. A vehicular access roadway greater than or equal to 18 feet in
width and serving two or more single-family dwellings.
   ACCESSORY DWELLING UNIT. An attached or a detached residential dwelling unit
that provides complete independent living facilities for one or more persons
and is located on a lot with a proposed or existing primary dwelling. See also
JUNIOR ACCESSORY DWELLING UNIT.
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE. A structure that is physically detached from, and
secondary and incidental in terms of use to the primary structure. An accessory
structure may be larger than the primary structure; for instance, a barn
(accessory structure) larger than the house (primary structure).
   ACCESSORY USE. A use which is subordinate or incidental to the principal use
on the same lot and serving a purpose customarily incidental to the principal
use such as a parking garage and storage building.
   ACREAGE, GROSS. The entire acreage of a parcel or lot, including any
proposed public roadways and all other areas which may be ultimately excluded
from development. See also, “Acreage, Net”.
   ACREAGE, NET. The acreage of a parcel or lot, excluding areas to be
dedicated for public purposes or other reasons. See also, “Acreage, Gross”.
   ADULT ANIMAL. Any animal attaining an age when one of the following applies:
      (1)   It attains 90% of the size, measured by height and/or weight, of an
average adult of the species;
      (2)   It no longer requires its mother’s care; or
      (3)   It attains the age when an average adult of the species is able to
breed
   ADULT CAT. A domestic cat (Fells catus) that has reached the age of four
months.
   ADULT DOG. A dog that has reached the age of four months. See also DOG.
   AGRICULTURE. The cultivation of soil for the growing of crops and the
rearing of animals to produce food, wool, and other products.
   AGRICULTURAL EMPLOYEE HOUSING. Residential housing whose occupancy is
restricted to persons who are employed in, raising or harvesting any
agricultural commodities. All occupants of the housing unit(s) must be
agricultural employees. The housing shall be provided by someone other than an
agricultural employer, as defined in Cal. Labor Code § 1140.4. Agricultural
employee housing is not a business run for profit; it does not differ in any
way from a traditional dwelling.
   AGRICULTURAL EMPLOYER. An employer engaged in agricultural operations who
employ employees, as defined in Cal. Labor Code § 1140.4(c).
   AGRICULTURAL PROCESSING. The washing, sorting, packaging, and shelling of
harvested agricultural products, in a covered and/or enclosed structure, for
shipment or sale. Also includes the production of wine, including crushing of
grapes, fermenting, storing, and bottling of wine produced on site. See also
CANNERY and WINERY.
   AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTS. Any product produced by a commercial agricultural
operation, either in its raw form (e.g., whole eggs) or processed to make it
ready for wholesale or retail sale (e.g., packaged broccoli). Does not include
products which require heating, cooking or baking. Also includes the production
of eggs. See also COMMERCIAL AGRICULTURE.
   AGRICULTURAL STORAGE. The storage of harvested or processed agricultural
products in a covered and/or enclosed structure.
   AIRPORT. A place, either on land or on water, where aircraft may land and
take off and where additional space may be provided to discharge or receive
cargo and passengers, make repairs and take in fuel. See also UNMANNED AERIAL
VEHICLE TAKEOFF AND LANDING FACILITY.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/fb9621aeb40cfcace25e7d8581ab7f5ecac73a18/
IMAGES/0-0-0-6859.png]
 
Aerial view of Hollister Municipal Airport.
   ALLEY. A passage or way open to public travel, affording secondary means of
vehicular access to abutting lots, and not intended for general traffic
circulation.
   ALUC. Airport Land Use Commission of San Benito County.
   ALUCP. The most recently adopted Airport Land Use Compatibility Plan for
Frazier Lake Airpark, as adopted by the San Benito County Airport Land Use
Commission.
   ANIMAL. Birds, fishes, reptiles and all non-human mammals. See also
LIVESTOCK.
   ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER. The Chief Animal Control Officer or his or her
agents and/or deputies.
   ANIMAL SHELTER. A premise selected by the Chief Animal Control Officer with
the approval of the Board of Supervisors for the care, confinement, isolation
or detention of animals.
   APPROACH SAFETY ZONE. The inner edge of this zone coincides with the outer
edge of the clear zone and is 450 feet wide. The zone expands outward uniformly
to a width of 1,250 feet at a horizontal distance of 5,000 feet from the end of
the runway. Its centerline is the continuation of the centerline of the runway.
   APPROVED ENTITY. A public or private entity assuming responsibility and
ownership of facilities and infrastructure intended in whole or in part to
serve the planned unit development and with certain guarantees of providing
services to the owners of the lots created by the planned unit development.
   AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD. Land in the floodplain subject to a 1% or
greater chance of flooding in any given year.
   ASSEMBLY USES. Facilities designed for the gathering of people for any
purpose, including social events, religious worship, concerts, events, etc.,
either as special events or on a regular schedule.
   AUTOMOBILE/VEHICLE RELATED USES. Uses which by design are primarily
associated with the repair and refueling of motor vehicles and the provision of
services, food, refreshments, etc., to drivers and passengers.
   AUTOMOBILE WRECKING YARDS. See JUNKYARD.
   AVERAGE SLOPE. The rate of vertical change of ground surface averaged over
the site and expressed in percentage or degrees. AVERAGE SLOPE is calculated as
follows:
   S = 0.00229 IL
      A
   Where:
      0.00229 is the conversion factor for square feet;
      I = contour interval in feet;
      L = combined length of all contour lines within the parcel;
      A = area of parcel in gross acres.
   BALANCE. The cutting and filling of a site which does not require the export
or import of earth material.
   BANNER. Any sign of lightweight fabric or similar material that is
permanently mounted to a pole or a building by a permanent frame at one or more
edges. National flags, state or municipal flags or the official flag of any
institution or business shall not be considered BANNERS.
   BEACON. Any light with one or more beams directed into the atmosphere or
directed at one or more points not on the same lot as the light source; also,
any light with one or more beams that rotate or move.
   BED AND BREAKFAST. An establishment providing overnight accommodations and a
morning meal by people who rent rooms in their homes to visitors.
   BILLBOARD. A permanent sign that meets one or more of the following
criteria: 1) it is used for the display of off-site commercial messages; 2) it
is used for general advertising; 3) displays space on the sign in a routinely
rented, leased or donated to advertisers other than the owner or operator of
the sign; or 4) the sign structure is a principal use, as opposed to an
accessory or appurtenant use, of the land. A shopping center sign is not within
this definition, so long as it is used to display advertising for commercial
enterprises located outside the shopping center.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/fb9621aeb40cfcace25e7d8581ab7f5ecac73a18/
IMAGES/0-0-0-6873.png]
 
A billboard.
   BLOCK. All property fronting on one side of a street between an intersection
and intercepting streets or between a street and a waterway, dead-end street,
major easement or right-of-way, or unsubdivided land.
   BOARD OF SUPERVISORS. The Board of Supervisors of the County of San Benito,
State of California.
   BOARDING HOUSE. A residence or dwelling, other than a motel or hotel,
wherein two or more rooms (with or without individual or group cooking
facilities), are rented to individuals under separate rental agreements or
leases.
   BREEZEWAY. A covered passageway with a solid roof used to join two or more
detached buildings or two or more parts of the same building.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/fb9621aeb40cfcace25e7d8581ab7f5ecac73a18/
IMAGES/0-0-0-6871.png]
 
A typical breezeway.
   BUILDING. See STRUCTURE.
   BUILDING, ACCESSORY. A subordinate building, the use of which is incidental
to that of a main building on the same building site. These structures include,
but are not limited to, sheds, and signs.
   BUILDING HEIGHT. The vertical distance measured from the average level of
the highest and lowest point of that portion of the lot covered by the building
to the highest point of the roof, ridge or parapet wall. See
Chapter 25.07 for rules regarding measuring heights.
   BUILDING, MAIN. A building in which the primary use of the parcel on which
it is situated, even if the main building is not the largest building on a
parcel. In a residential district, the primary dwelling shall be deemed the
main building on the parcel, regardless of its size.
   BUILDING MARKER. Any sign indicating the name of a building and date and
incidental information about its construction, which sign is cut into a masonry
surface or is made of bronze or other permanent material.
   BUILDING SITE. The portion of a lot or parcel intended to be occupied by a
building or buildings.
   CAMPGROUND. Land or premises which is used, or intended to be used, let or
rented for occupancy by campers traveling by automobile or otherwise, or for
occupancy by tents, recreational vehicles or similar quarters.
   CANNABIS RETAILER, MICROBUSINESS, or DISPENSARY. Any facility or location,
whether fixed or mobile, where cannabis is cultivated, provided, sold, made
available, or otherwise distributed, as defined in Cal. Business and
Professions Code Division 10 and Cal. Health and Safety Code Division 10,
Chapter 6, Articles 2 and 2.5.
   CANNABIS-RELATED INDUSTRIAL. The following types of facilities are defined:
      CANNABIS INDOOR COMMERCIAL CULTIVATION FACILITY. A building or portion of
a building used for a business involving the wholly indoor commercial
cultivation of cannabis plants within California in compliance with the
Medicinal and Adult-Use Cannabis Regulation and Safety Act (the “MAUCRSA”, Cal.
Business and Professions Code §§ 26000 et seq.).
      CANNABIS LABORATORY MATERIALS TESTING FACILITY. A building, or portion
thereof, used for a business involving the materials testing, investigation,
scientific research, or experimentation of medicinal or non-medicinal cannabis
or cannabis products within California in compliance with the Medicinal and
Adult-Use Cannabis Regulation and Safety Act (the “MAUCRSA”, Cal. Business and
Professions Code §§ 26000 et seq.).
      CANNABIS MANUFACTURING FACILITY. A building, or portion thereof, used for
a business involving the manufacture for off-site sale of cannabis products
within California in compliance with the Medicinal and Adult-Use Cannabis
Regulation and Safety Act (the “MAUCRSA”, Cal. Business and Professions Code §§
26000 et seq.).
      WHOLESALE CANNABIS LOGISTICS, DISTRIBUTION, AND TRANSPORTATION FACILITY.
A building, or portion thereof, used for a business involving the procurement,
sale, and transport of cannabis and cannabis products within California in
compliance with the Medicinal and Adult-Use Cannabis Regulation and Safety Act
(the “MAUCRSA,” Cal. Business and Professions Code §§ 26000 et seq.).
   CANNERY. A factory where food is canned or bottled. See also, AGRICULTURAL
PROCESSING and WINERY.
   CAR SHARE. A program that allows customers hourly access to shared vehicles
from a dedicated home location, with the vehicles required to be returned to
that same location at the end of the trip.
   CARETAKER UNIT. A dwelling unit provided for an on-site caretaker. Permitted
per Chapter 25.03 of this code.
   CAT. A domestic cat (Felis catus), including female and male, altered or
unaltered.
   CHANGE OF COPY. A change of a previously permitted or legal sign which
affects only the display face of that sign.
   CHIEF ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER. See Title 13 of the County Code.
   CLEAR ZONE. A trapezoidal area of ground level which coincides with the end
of the primary surface and is 250 feet wide. The approach zone expands outward
uniformly to a width of 450 feet at a horizontal distance of 1,000 feet from
the primary surface. The clear zone overlaps the utility runway visual approach
zone.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/fb9621aeb40cfcace25e7d8581ab7f5ecac73a18/
IMAGES/0-0-0-6869.png]
 
Clear Zone
   CLUB. Depending on context: A building used for assembly purposes, or an
association or organization dedicated to a particular interest or activity.
   COMMERCIAL AGRICULTURE. The practice of agriculture as a commercial
enterprise, with products intended for distribution to wholesalers or retail
outlets or for direct sale to the public. COMMERCIAL AGRICULTURE includes the
delivery or distribution of crops to customers located elsewhere. COMMERCIAL
AGRICULTURE also includes operations typically associated with farming,
including equipment, vehicle, and materials storage; and the repair of
equipment and vehicles used onsite. See also AGRICULTURE and AGRICULTURAL
PROCESSING.
   COMMERCIAL MASCOT. Live human being(s) and/or animal(s) used for the purpose
of commercial advertising, such as, by way of example and not limitation, sign
spinners, sign clowns, sandwich board signs over a live human body, and persons
dressed to appear or suggest as a trademark or symbol of a commercial
enterprise. In-person protestors and demonstrators expressing non-commercial
messages are not considered commercial mascots.
   COMMERCIAL RECREATION. Establishments providing participant or spectator
recreation, either indoors or outdoors, for a fee or admission charge.
Illustrative examples of these uses include: batting cages, billiards and pool
halls, bowling alley, country clubs, family fun centers, golf courses, and rock
climbing.
   COMMON IMPROVEMENTS. Ponds, drainage facilities, street lighting, utilities,
and other infrastructure required for the orderly development of the planned
unit development. The open space within the planned unit development may or may
not be included in the definition of common improvements.
   COMMON OPEN SPACE. Land within the site designated for a planned unit
development and designated and intended in whole or in part for the use or
enjoyment of residents of the planned unit development. The area may contain
complementary structures and improvement as are necessary and appropriate. Fee
title to common open space may be held by the homeowner’s association or by
another approved entity
   COMMUNITY ASSEMBLY. A facility for public or private meetings, including
community centers, union halls, meeting halls, and other membership
organizations. Included in this classification is the use of functionally
related facilities for the use of members and attendees such as kitchens,
multi-purpose rooms, classrooms and storage.
   COMPOSTING, AGRICULTURAL. An operation where a combination of agricultural
commodities and by-products such as feedstock, vegetable waste, cannery waste,
soils or yard trimmings are processed to a stabilized state through controlled
biological decomposition for the purpose of making compost to amend soils.
   COMPOSTING, COMMERCIAL. An operation where a combination of materials such
as feedstock, vegetable waste, cannery waste, soils or yard trimmings are
processed to a stabilized state through controlled biological decomposition for
the purposes of making compost for commercial sales to persons other than the
composter.
   CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT. A discretionary permit required for certain uses
specified in this code to provide for the review of proposed uses, with the
intent of ensuring that, if approved, such use can be operated in a manner
compatible with surrounding uses.
   CONDOMINIUM. As defined in Cal. Civil Code § 1351.
   CONSTRAINTS. A factor or factors that restrict development of a site due to
environmental hazards or conditions, including but not limited to wildlife
habitat, slope, flooding, fire hazard, fault zone, and landslides.
   CONSTRUCTION SIGN. A sign displayed on the site of a construction project
during the period of time that construction is diligently pursued.
   CONTOUR. A line drawn on a plan which connects all points of equal
elevation.
   CONTOUR GRADING. A grading concept designed to result in earth forms, which
resemble natural terrain characteristics. Horizontal and vertical variations
are often used for slope banks. Contour grading does not necessarily minimize
the amount of cut and fill occurring.
   COTTAGE FOOD OPERATION. As defined in Cal. Health and Safety Code § 113758.
   COUNTY. When capitalized, refers to the governmental agency of the County of
San Benito (e.g., “The County regulates land uses.”). When lowercase, refers to
the geographic area (e.g., “There are many beautiful areas in the county.”).
   COUNTY ROAD. A road which is either existing, offered for dedication, or
accepted by the County.
   COURT. An open, unoccupied space, other than a yard, on the same lot with a
building or group of buildings, and which is bounded on two or more sides by
such building or buildings.
   CROWING FOWL. A male chicken (rooster), peafowl and guinea fowl two months
of age or older.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/fb9621aeb40cfcace25e7d8581ab7f5ecac73a18/
IMAGES/0-0-0-6867.png]
 
A “crowing fowl”
   CUSTOM AND ARTISAN MANUFACTURING. The production or fabrication of goods by
hand manufacturing or artistic endeavor, which involves only the use of hand
tools or small mechanical equipment, and which may include incidental
instruction or direct sales for consumers. Typical uses include ceramic
studios, fabric and needleworking, leather working, metalworking, glass
working, candle-making shops, woodworking, and custom jewelry manufacturers.
   CUT. For the purposes of implementing the Hillside/Ridgeline regulations of
Chapter 25.07, CUT is the mechanical removal of earth material.
   CUT AND FILL. The excavating of earth material in one place and depositing
of it as fill in an adjacent place.
   CUT-OFF STANDARDS. A standard for light emission wherein light rays
emanating from a source are shielded, reflected, or refracted at angles that
direct and cut off the light at an angle less than 90 degrees. See County
Ordinance No. 748 for additional lighting standards.
   DAY CARE CENTERS. Establishments providing non-medical care for persons on a
less than 24-hour basis other than small or large family day care. This
classification includes nursery schools, preschools, and day care facilities
for children or adults, and any other day care facility licensed by the State
of California.
   DBH. Diameter at breast height is the diameter of a tree measured at four
and one-half feet above the ground while standing on the high side of the tree.
The diameter may be calculated by use of the following formula: Diameter =
circumference/3.142.
   DEAD-END ROAD. A street with only one inlet or outlet.
   DECISION MAKING BODY. Either the Planning Commission or the Board of
Supervisors of the County of San Benito.
   DEFENSIBLE SPACE. The area within the perimeter of a parcel, development,
neighborhood or community where basic wildland fire protection practices and
measures are implemented, providing the key point of defense from an
approaching wildfire or defense against encroaching wildfires or escaping
structure fires.
   DENSITY. The ratio of residential dwelling units to gross acreage, expressed
as “units per acre.”
   DESIGN THEME. A conceptual description of the physical and visual
characteristics of a development proposal, with emphasis on the aesthetic
qualities.
   DESTROY or DESTRUCTION. With regard to a tree (including without limitation
its root system), any physical state or condition in which a tree is killed or
is so severely damaged that its death is imminent.
   DEVELOPED. For the purposes of implementing the Tree Preservation
regulations of this title, refers to a parcel containing at least one permitted
residential structure.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any man-made change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations.
   DIRECTOR. The Director of Planning and Building of the county or his or her
designee.
   DISTRIBUTION CENTER. See LOGISTICS FACILITY.
   DISTRICT. See
Chapter 25.03 of this code.
   DISTRICT, COMBINING. See
Chapter 25.04 of this code.
   DOG. Any dog (canis familiars) of either sex, altered or unaltered, or any
other member of the canis genus.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/fb9621aeb40cfcace25e7d8581ab7f5ecac73a18/
IMAGES/0-0-0-6865.png]
 
A typical dog.
   DRIP LINE. A line which may be drawn on the ground around a tree directly
under its outermost branch tips and which identifies that location where
rainwater tends to drip from the tree.
   DRIVE-IN BUSINESS. A business where patrons park and are served in their
vehicle by staff who come to the vehicle. At a drive-in restaurant, meals are
consumed in the vehicle at the restaurant. Compare to DRIVE-THROUGH FACILITIES.
   DRIVE-THROUGH FACILITIES. An establishment that sells products or provides
services to occupants in vehicles at which staff remain inside the building and
orders are fulfilled at a window. The product is then consumed or used
elsewhere. Examples include drive-through restaurants, banks, dry cleaners, and
pharmacies. Includes “drive-in” restaurants.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/fb9621aeb40cfcace25e7d8581ab7f5ecac73a18/
IMAGES/0-0-0-6863.png]
 
Typical drive-through business, in this case a restaurant
   DRIVEWAY. A vehicular access road less than 18 feet wide and serving not
more than two single-family dwellings. For the purposes of implementing the
Fire Safety standards of this code, a driveway is a “Fire Apparatus Access
Road” as defined in § 202 of the California Fire Code (Cal. Code of
Regulations, Title 24, Part 9).
   DWELLING TYPES. Various types of dwelling units are defined below:
      DWELLING, DUPLEX. A residential building containing two dwelling units
under one roof where both units are on the same lot.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/fb9621aeb40cfcace25e7d8581ab7f5ecac73a18/
IMAGES/0-0-0-6861.png]
 
A duplex. A halfplex is physically the same, but is split by a property line to
place each unit on its own lot.
      DWELLING, HALFPLEX. A residential building containing two dwelling units
under one roof where each unit is on its own lot.
      DWELLING, MULTI-FAMILY. Three or more attached or detached dwelling units
on a single lot. Types of multi-unit residential include townhouses and
multiple detached residential units. See also, DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY and
DWELLING, DUPLEX.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/fb9621aeb40cfcace25e7d8581ab7f5ecac73a18/
IMAGES/0-0-0-6925.png]
 
Examples of multi-family dwellings include triplexes (above) and apartments
(below).
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/fb9621aeb40cfcace25e7d8581ab7f5ecac73a18/
IMAGES/0-0-0-6919.png]
 
      DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY. A dwelling unit that is designed for occupancy
by one household. SINGLE-FAMILY DWELLING includes manufactured housing units.
See also DWELLING UNIT, MANUFACTURED HOUSING UNIT, DWELLING, DUPLEX and
DWELLING, MULTI-FAMILY.
      DWELLING, TRIPLEX. A residential building containing three dwelling units
under one roof.
      DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY. A building designed for occupancy by two families
living independently of each other, either in a “duplex” or “halfplex”
configuration.
   DWELLING UNIT. One or more rooms in a building designed for or used as a
residence and constituting a separate and independent housekeeping unit, with a
single kitchen and internal circulation to all living areas. Does not include a
lodging or boardinghouse, a fraternity or sorority house, club, or hotel/motel.
   DWELLING UNIT, ACCESSORY. See Chapter 25.08 of this code.
   EFFICIENCY KITCHEN. For the purposes of implement the junior accessory
dwelling unit regulations of this code, an efficiency kitchen includes both of
the following:
      (1)   An appliance for cooking or heating food.
      (b)   A food preparation counter and storage cabinets of reasonable size
in relation to the size of the junior ADU in which they are located.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/fb9621aeb40cfcace25e7d8581ab7f5ecac73a18/
IMAGES/0-0-0-6917.png]
 
Typical efficiency kitchen, shown with an optional sink and refrigerator.
   EFFICIENCY UNIT. As defined in the Building Code.
   ELECTION PERIOD. The period of time that commences 60 days before any
primary, general, or special election, and ends ten days after such election
has been held.
   EMERGENCY ACCESS. An approved secondary access roadway for the exclusive use
of emergency vehicles (e.g., sheriff, fire, ambulance).
   EMERGENCY SHELTER. Housing with minimal supportive services for homeless
persons that is limited to occupancy of six months or less. as defined in Cal.
Health and Safety Code § 50801. Medical assistance, counseling, and meals may
be provided.
   EMPLOYEE HOUSING. Housing for at least five employees as defined in § 17008
of the Employee Housing Act (Cal. Health and Safety Code § 17008).
   EMPLOYER-PROVIDED FARMWORKER HOUSING. Housing accommodations described in §
17008(a) of the Employee Housing Act (Cal. Health and Safety Code § 17008(a))
for five or more farmworkers by their employer and maintained in connection
with any work or place where work is being performed, whether or not rent is
involved.
   EROSION. The process by which the soil and rock components of the earth’s
crust are worn away and removed from one place to another by natural forces
such as wind and water.
   ESTABLISHMENT. For the purposes of the regulation of signs, ESTABLISHMENT is
a non-residential use of real property, which involves structures that would be
subject to a building permit if constructed anew and the routine presence of
live human beings for at least 24 hours per week.
   EXPORT. For the purposes of implementing the Hillside/Ridgeline regulations
of this title, refers to excess earth material that is removed from a grading
project and deposited off site.
   FAMILY. One or more persons living together in a dwelling unit.
   FAMILY DAY CARE. A day care facility in a residential home where residents
of the dwelling provide care and supervision for children under the age of 18
for periods of less than 24 hours a day.
      SMALL. Generally, a facility that provides care for eight or fewer
children, as defined in Cal. Health and Safety Code § 1597.44.
      LARGE. Generally, a facility that provides care for up to 14 children, as
defined in Cal. Health and Safety Code § 1597.465.
   FAR PART 77. Federal Aviation Regulations, 14 C.F.R. pt. 77, Subpart C.
   FARMWORKER HOUSING. A housing accommodation developed for and/or provided to
farmworkers and shall consist of any living quarters, dwelling, boarding house,
or other housing accommodation maintained in one or more buildings and on one
or more sites. FARMWORKER
HOUSING shall consist of either a farmworker dwelling unit or a farmworker
housing complex.
   FEED LOT. Any premises on which cattle are held or maintained for the
purpose of feeding and fattening for market, and where cattle are concentrated
and fed in a central location.
   FILL. A deposit of earth material placed by artificial means.
   FINISH GRADE. The final elevation of the ground surface after development
which is in conformance with the approved plan.
   FLAG SIGN. Any fabric, banner or bunting containing distinctive colors,
patterns or symbols, used as a symbol of a government, political subdivision or
other entity.
   FLOOD or FLOODING. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas from:
      (1)   The overflow of inland or tidal waters; and/or
      (2)   The unusual and rapid accumulation of runoff or surface waters from
any source.
   FLOOD HAZARD BOUNDARY MAP (FHBM). Official map of a community issued by
FEMA, where the boundaries of the flood, mudflow and related erosion areas
having special hazards have been designated.
   FLOODPLAIN. Level land which is subject to flooding, usually from a nearby
or adjacent stream or river, but across which water is not actively flowing.
See also FLOODWAY.
   FLOODWAY. An area of land which during a flooding event carries flowing
water. See also FLOODPLAIN.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/fb9621aeb40cfcace25e7d8581ab7f5ecac73a18/
IMAGES/0-0-0-6915.png]
 
Floodplain and floodway.
   FLOODWAY FRINGE. The area between the outer edge of a floodplain and the
edge of the floodway.
   FLOOR AREA, GROSS. The sum of all enclosed or covered areas of a building
measured to the exterior faces of the enclosing walls, columns or posts, but
excluding areas permanently open to the sky and exterior areas under roof
eaves, trellises or cantilevered overhangs.
   FLOOR-AREA RATIO. The ratio of the total gross floor area of all buildings
on a lot to the area of the parcel on which the building(s) are located.
   FOOD TRUCK. As used in this title, FOOD TRUCK is a “Mobile Food Facility” as
defined in § 113831 of the California Retail Food Code (Cal. Health and Safety
Code § 113831). The operation of food trucks in the unincorporated area is
regulated by the San Benito County Department of Environmental Health.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/fb9621aeb40cfcace25e7d8581ab7f5ecac73a18/
IMAGES/0-0-0-6913.png]
 
A typical food truck.
   FOOT-CANDLE. A measure of the amount of light falling on a surface. A higher
foot-candle rating indicates more light.
   FOUNDATION. The lowest part of building or structure that is in direct
contact with the soil and which transfers loads from the structure to the soil.
   FRAZIER LAKE AIRPARK COMBINING DISTRICT BOUNDARY. The boundary of the
Frazier Lake Airpark (FLA) Combining District is defined as the boundary of the
Airport Influence Area, established in the Frazier Lake Airpark Airport Land
Use Compatibility Plan (ALUCP). The AIRPORT INFLUENCE AREA is defined as the
area bounded by Lovers Lane to Shore Road, west along Shore Road and extended
to the railroad tracks, then northwest along the railroad tracks to the Pajaro
River, then north along the Pajaro River to Miller’s Canal, then northeast
along Miller’s Canal to the San Benito County line, then east along the county
line to Lovers Lane then south to Shore Road.
   FREESTANDING SIGN. A sign that is self-supporting, permanently in a fixed
location and not attached to a building. “Portable sign” is not included in
this definition.
   FRONT WALL. The wall of a building or other structure nearest the front lot
line.
   GARAGE, PRIVATE. A building for the noncommercial storage of private motor
vehicles as an incidental use to a residence.
   GARAGE, PUBLIC. Any premises used for the commercial storage of motor
vehicles.
   GENERAL ADVERTISING. The business of promoting other businesses or causes
using methods of advertising, in contrast to self-promotion or on-site
advertising.
   GRADING. To bring an existing surface to a designed form by excavating,
filling, or smoothing operation. See County Code,
Chapter 19.17 (Grading, Drainage and Erosion Control) for additional grading
requirements.
   GROSS AREA. The entire area of a parcel or lot, including any proposed
public roadways and all other areas which may be ultimately excluded from
development. See also NET AREA.
   GROUP RESIDENTIAL. Shared living quarters without separate kitchen or
bathroom facilities for each room or unit, offered for rent on a weekly or
longer basis. GROUP RESIDENTIAL includes rooming and boarding houses,
dormitories and other types of organizational housing, private residential
clubs, and extended stay hotels intended for long-term occupancy (30 days or
more) but excludes hotels and motels, and residential care facilities.
   GUEST HOUSE. A detached accessory residential structure on a property
without a kitchen or cooking facilities. A GUEST HOUSE is not considered an
accessory dwelling unit. See also ACCESSORY DWELLING UNIT.
   HABITABLE FLOOR AREA. Space in a structure for living, sleeping, eating or
cooking, defined by the outer walls of a structure, but not including a garage
or closets.
   HARDSCAPE. All artificially produced impervious surfaces such as concrete,
asphalt, pools, sport courts, and wooden decks.
   HARDWARE STORE. A retail store which offers hardware, plumbing, electrical,
and related goods to the general public, generally in a store of 25,000 square
feet or less. See also HOME IMPROVEMENT STORE.
   HAZARD TO AIR NAVIGATION. An obstruction determined by the Federal Aviation
Administration to have a substantial adverse effect on the safe and efficient
utilization of the navigable airspace.
   HEAVY INDUSTRY. Industrial uses which take place entirely within an enclosed
building, and which are generally characterized by one or more exterior
indications (visible emissions, noise, dust, odors, etc.) of the activity
taking place inside. See also LIGHT INDUSTRY.
   HEIGHT OF BUILDING. Generally, the vertical distance from the average base
elevation to the highest point of the structure. See
Chapter 25.07 for standards on measurement of building height.
   HILLSIDE LOT. A parcel of land with a slope of 15% or greater within the
building area or building envelope.
   HOBBY or HOBBY/PERSONAL. An activity which is undertaken or pursued for
pleasure or relaxation and not as a business or for financial gain. A
commercial operation which operates at a financial loss is not a HOBBY.
   HOBBY KENNEL. A kennel, where a limited number of dogs are maintained on a
noncommercial basis for the personal use and pleasure of the owner. See Chapter
25.08 for regulations regarding the number of animals which may be kept in a
hobby kennel.
   HOME IMPROVEMENT STORE. A retail store which offers a variety of goods
related to improvement, including lumber, hardware, plumbing, electrical,
appliances, etc., for sale to the general public. Generally large in size
(approximately 75,000 square feet or larger). See also HARDWARE STORE.
   HOMEOWNER ASSOCIATION. An incorporated homeowner association, assuming
responsibility and ownership of facilities and infrastructure intended, in
whole or in part, to serve the planned unit development.
   HOTEL. A commercial establishment offering lodging to travelers and which
has rooms which open to an interior hallway or lobby. May include a restaurant
and/or meeting rooms. See also MOTEL.
   HOTEL, RESORT. A hotel which contains luxury facilities with full-service
accommodations and amenities.
   HOUSEHOLD. See FAMILY.
   HOUSE TRAILER. A prefabricated structure, built in a factory on a
permanently attached chassis.
   HUMAN SCALE. Refers to buildings scaled to human physical capabilities with
steps, doorways, railings, work surfaces, seating, shelves, fixtures, walking
distances, and other features that fit well to the average person.
   HYBRID ANIMAL. Any animal which is the offspring of two different species of
animals, such as a mule (the offspring of a male donkey and a female horse).
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/fb9621aeb40cfcace25e7d8581ab7f5ecac73a18/
IMAGES/0-0-0-6911.png]
 
A mule, an example of a hybrid animal.
   INCIDENTAL or INCIDENTAL USE. A use of land or a building which is
subordinate to the primary use, generally based on the area of land or building
devoted to the use. An INCIDENTAL USE will generally comprise less than 25% of
the total building or site area, although the Director may make a different
determination per
Chapter 25.01 of this code. (See also PRIMARY USE.)
   INDEPENDENT LIVING FACILITY. A residential dwelling unit having permanent
provisions for living, sleeping, eating, cooking, and sanitation.
   INTENSITY OF DEVELOPMENT. The amount of development that may be placed on a
site as governed by building square footage and envelope criteria, such as
floor area ratio, setbacks, height, lot coverage, and the like. Also see SLOPE
DENSITY FORMULA.
   JUNIOR ACCESSORY DWELLING UNIT. See Chapter 25.08 of this code. See also
ACCESSORY DWELLING UNIT.
   JUNKYARD. Any outdoor area of more than 200 square feet in area where junk,
waste, discarded or salvaged materials are stored or handled. Includes
automobile wrecking yards, house wrecking yards, used lumber yards, and places
or yards for storage of salvaged house wrecking and structural steel materials
and equipment.
   KENNEL. Any lot, building, structure, enclosure or premises whereon or
wherein more than five adult dogs, 12 puppies under the age of four months,
nine adult cats, 12 kittens under the age of four months, or any combination of
dogs and cats totaling more than five adult dogs and cats and 12 puppies and
kittens under the age of four months, or any number of hybrid animals, are kept
or maintained for any purpose whatsoever. This definition shall apply to all
types of kennels including, without limitation, boarding kennels and commercial
kennels. This definition does not include a duly licensed veterinary hospital,
a hobby kennel, or a public pound.
   KENNEL HOUSE. Any separate structure within a primary enclosure, which is
used as sleeping quarters for the animal or animals kept within the primary
enclosure.
   KENNEL, PRIMARY STRUCTURE. Any structure used to immediately restrict an
animal or animals to a limited amount of space, such as a room, pen, cage or a
compartment, exclusive of any kennel house.
   KITCHEN. A room or other space within a building designed and constructed
for the cooking and/or preparation of food and containing 1) a stove or cooktop
using natural gas or 220-volt electricity and 2) a ventilated hood over the
stove or cooktop. See also DWELLING UNIT.
   LEGAL LOT OF RECORD. A lot or parcel which complies with the requirements of
the Subdivision Map Act. Includes: A lot shown on a final map, a lot or parcel
shown on a record of survey approved by the Board of Supervisors or Planning
Commission, a parcel shown on a parcel map or certificate of compliance
recorded in lieu of a parcel map, a recorded certificate of compliance, a
parcel shown on an approved division of land plat, a parcel shown on a lot
legalization plat used as evidence of legal parcel prior to a certificate of
compliance, a parcel shown on an approved boundary adjustment plat, a parcel
described in a grant deed or other bona fide conveyance document recorded prior
to February 1, 1972, or a parcel which is completely surrounded by lots already
determined to have been legally created.
   LIGHT INDUSTRY. Industrial uses which take place entirely within an enclosed
building, with no indication (visible emissions, noise, dust, odors, etc.) of
the activity taking place inside. See also HEAVY INDUSTRY.
   LIVE WORK DEVELOPMENT. A particular type of mixed-use development that
includes live-work floor plans for residents who desire office, commercial, or
studio space adjacent to their living space.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/fb9621aeb40cfcace25e7d8581ab7f5ecac73a18/
IMAGES/0-0-0-6909.png]
 
An artist’s live-work space.
   LIVESTOCK, LARGE. A horse, ass, burro, donkey, mule, equine creature, cow,
bull, steer, heifer, ox, bovine creature, llama, vicuna, sheep, ovine creature,
goat, caprine creature, hog, pot-bellied pig, or swine creature. See also PET,
POULTRY and LIVESTOCK, SMALL.
   LIVESTOCK, SMALL. A farm animal larger than ten pounds but smaller than a
large livestock. See also SMALL FARM ANIMAL.
   LIVESTOCK FARM OR RANCH. The raising and growing or livestock as a
commercial enterprise, intended for widespread distribution to wholesalers or
retail outlets. LIVESTOCK FARM OR RANCH includes the delivery or distribution
of animals to customers located elsewhere. Also includes operations typically
associated with farming or ranching, including equipment, vehicle, and
materials storage; and the repair of equipment and vehicles used onsite. See
also COMMERCIAL AGRICULTURE.
   LIVING AREA. The interior habitable area of a dwelling unit. Equivalent to
“conditioned space” as defined in the Building Code.
   LOGISTICS. A use characterized by the short-term storage of goods before
they are sent to either a retail store or directly to the end user. LOGISTICS
uses typically take place in large buildings.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/fb9621aeb40cfcace25e7d8581ab7f5ecac73a18/
IMAGES/0-0-0-6907.png]
 
A typical logistics facility.
   LOT. A parcel of land established or to be established by subdivision as
provided in the Subdivision Ordinance of the County of San Benito; or a parcel
of land established under the applicable federal or state law and local
ordinance at the time it was created as set forth in the state’s Subdivision
Map Act.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/fb9621aeb40cfcace25e7d8581ab7f5ecac73a18/
IMAGES/0-0-0-6905.png]
 
Lots are shown on an Assessor’s Parcel Map for an area in San Benito County.
   LOT COVERAGE. Any area covered by a building, not including eaves of 30
inches or less. Does not include paved driveways, sidewalks, paths and patios,
and uncovered pools or spas.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/fb9621aeb40cfcace25e7d8581ab7f5ecac73a18/
IMAGES/0-0-0-6903.png]
 
Lot coverage is the sum of the area of all buildings (A + B + C) divided by the
total area of the lot or parcel (D).
   LOT DEPTH. The average distance from the front line of the lot to its rear
line measured in the general direction of the side lines of the lot.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/fb9621aeb40cfcace25e7d8581ab7f5ecac73a18/
IMAGES/0-0-0-6901.png]
 
Measuring lot depth.
   LOT LINE ADJUSTMENT. An adjustment of the boundary lines between existing
adjoining parcels, where the land taken from one parcel is added to an
adjoining parcel and where no new parcel is created.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/fb9621aeb40cfcace25e7d8581ab7f5ecac73a18/
IMAGES/0-0-0-6899.png]
 
Illustration of Lot Types
   LOT TYPES. The following are types of lots, as illustrated above.
      LOT, CORNER. A parcel of land which is bounded on two or more adjacent
sides by street frontage.
      LOT, FLAG. An interior lot connected to the street by a narrow portion.
      LOT, INTERIOR. A lot bounded on one side by a street line and on all
other sides by adjacent lots.
      LOT, KEY. An interior lot adjoining the rear lot line of a reversed
corner lot.
      LOT, REVERSE CORNER. A corner lot in which the rear property line abuts
the front yard area of an adjoining interior lot.
      LOT, THROUGH. A lot having frontage on two parallel or approximately
parallel streets.
   LOT WIDTH. See §
25.07.004.
   LRDA (LEAST RESTRICTED DEVELOPMENT AREA). Least restricted areas on a
property where development would have a minimal impact on the natural landscape
and environment.
   MANMADE SLOPE. A manufactured slope consisting wholly or partially of either
cut or filled material.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which
is built on a permanent chassis, and designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities.
   MARQUEE SIGN. A permanent roof-like structure projecting beyond a building
or extending along and projecting beyond the wall of the building generally
designed and constructed to provide protection from the weather; and has a sign
at its front or side displaying details of the use within the building.
   MINIMAL GRADING. A grading concept designed to minimize excavation and
filling. Allows the movement of earth for projects such as individual building
foundations, driveways, local roads, and utility excavation. The concept is
associated with roads conforming closely to natural contours and with buildings
being built on natural terrain.
   MIXED USE DEVELOPMENT. Properties on which various uses, such as office,
commercial, institutional, and residential, are combined in a single building
(vertical) or on a single site (horizontal) in an integrated development
project with significant functional interrelationships and a coherent physical
design. A SINGLE SITE may include contiguous properties.
   MOBILE HOME. A vehicle, other than a motor vehicle, designed or used for
human habitation, for carrying persons and property or its structure, and for
being drawn by a motor vehicle.
   MOBILE HOME PARK. A parcel or parcels of land which has been planned and
improved for the placement of mobile homes for non-transient use.
   MOTEL. A commercial establishment offering lodging to travelers and which
has rooms which open to the outdoors. May include a restaurant or meeting
rooms.
   MULTI-FAMILY DWELLING. See DWELLING, MULTI-FAMILY.
   NATURAL SLOPE. A slope that is not manmade. A NATURAL SLOPE shall retain
natural vegetation.
   NET LOT AREA. The area of a lot exclusive of rights-of-way or ingress-egress
easements for public or private uses.
   NET METERING. Net-metering is a service to an electric consumer under which
electric energy generated by that electric consumer from an eligible on-site
generating facility and delivered to the local distribution facilities may be
used to offset electric energy provided by the electrical utility to the
electric consumer during the applicable billing period. NET-METERING does not
allow the sale of power back to the electric company or into the wholesale
electricity market.
   NON-COMMERCIAL SIGN. A sign that does not identify, advertise or attract
attention to a business, product or service, or propose an economic
transaction. Typical examples including signs whose message addresses a topic
of public concern or controversy including, but not limited to: politics,
religion, philosophy, science, art or social commentary.
   NON-CONFORMING BUILDING. A building, structure or portion thereof, which
does not conform to the regulations of this title for the district in which it
is situated (e.g., setbacks or height limit), but which complied with the
applicable regulations in place at the time it was constructed.
   NON-CONFORMING SITE. A site which does not conform with the regulations of
this title for the district in which it is situated (e.g., parking or
landscaping), but which complied with the applicable regulations in place at
the time it was constructed.
   NON-CONFORMING USE. A use that does not conform to the regulations for the
district in which it is situated but which complied with the applicable
regulations at the time it was established.
   OFF-SITE SIGN. A sign that identifies, advertises, or attracts attention to
a business, product service, event or activity sold, existing or offered
elsewhere than upon the same lot or parcel where the sign is displayed. The
off-site distinction applies only to commercial messages.
   ON-SITE SIGN. A sign that identifies, advertises, or attracts attention to a
business, product, service, event or activity sold, existing or offered upon
the same lot where the sign is displayed. However, signs relating to tenants or
establishments located within a multi-tenant non-residential development are
all considered ON-SITE anywhere within the development. The on-site distinction
applies only to commercial messages.
   OUTDOOR ACTIVITY. Any activity which takes place outside of an enclosed
building, including activity under a roof but not enclosed by walls.
   OUTDOOR STORAGE. The storage of anything outdoors not under a permanent
roof.
   OVERFLIGHT ZONE. Defined as:
      (1)   The OVERFLIGHT ZONE is established by swinging arcs of 5,000 feet
radii from the center of each end of the primary surface of each runway and
connecting the adjacent arcs by drawing lines tangent to those arcs.
      (2)   The OVERFLIGHT ZONE does not include the approach and transitional
zones.
   OWN. To be the legal owner, keeper, harborer, possessor; to have the care,
charge, custody or control of an animal; or to be registered as the owner on a
license or other legal document.
   OWNER. For the purposes of implementing the Planned Development section of
this title, refers to the legal or beneficial owner or owners of all the land
proposed to be included in the PUD. The holder of an option or contract to
purchase, lessee having a remaining term of not less than 20 years, or other
person having an enforceable proprietary interest in such land shall be deemed
to be the OWNER for the purposes of these provisions.
   PAD. A level area created by grading to accommodate development.
   PARCEL. Same as LOT.
   PARKING AREA. An off street area for the parking of motor vehicles,
including areas required to provide ingress to and egress from the parking
area.
   PASSAGEWAY. A pathway that extends from a street or alley to one entrance of
the accessory dwelling unit.
   PENNANT. Any lightweight plastic, fabric or other material, whether or not
containing a message of any kind, suspended from a rope, wire or string,
usually in series.
   PERMIT. For the purposes of implementing the Sign regulations of this title,
PERMIT is a written authorization to erect or display a sign that is subject to
such authorization by this article. Permits authorized by this article do not
include those permits issued by the Planning and Building Department under the
authority of Title 21 of the County Code.
   PERSON. Any individual, partnership, corporation, limited liability company,
trust or association. For the purpose of implementing the Tree Preservation
regulations of
Chapter 25.07, also includes a governmental agency.
   PERSONAL SERVICES. Services provided to an individual that relate to
everyday living, not including medical or veterinary services. Examples
include: Barber and beauty shops, retail dry cleaning stores with limited
equipment, small electronics (such as smartphone) repair, shoe repair, tailors,
nail salons, and non-medical professional offices (lawyer, accountant, etc.).
   PERSONAL STORAGE. Facilities offering enclosed storage with individual
access for personal effects and household goods including mini-warehouses and
mini-storage. This use excludes workshops, hobby shops, manufacturing, or
commercial activity.
   PET. A small animal kept for amusement or companionship, e.g., cats, dogs,
hamsters, pot-bellied pigs, small birds and non-poisonous reptiles and fish.
This definition specifically excludes any large animal or animal commonly
defined as livestock. See also SMALL FARM ANIMAL.
   PET CLINIC. Any lot, building, structure, enclosure or premises whereon or
wherein is carried on a business for the medical care and treatment (including
surgery) of pets. This definition does not include a kennel, the buying and
selling or bartering of animals, the medical treatment of large animals or
livestock, the business or activities of a pet shop, or to premises operated by
any rescue organization, any public pound or any animal shelter.
   PET SHOP. Any lot, building, structure, enclosure or premises whereon or
wherein is carried on a business of buying and selling or bartering animals.
This definition does not include any commercial kennel, any hobby kennel, the
buying or selling of livestock, the business or activities of a duly licensed
veterinary hospital, or to premises operated by the Society for the Prevention
of Cruelty to Animals, any privately operated rescue organization, any public
pound or any animal shelter.
   PICKUP WINDOW. At a drive-through or drive-in business, the window through
which staff provides product to customers.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/fb9621aeb40cfcace25e7d8581ab7f5ecac73a18/
IMAGES/0-0-0-6897.png]
 
Pickup window at a drive-through restaurant
   PLACES OF WORSHIP. Any facility specifically designed and used to
accommodate the gathering of persons for the purposes of fellowship, worship,
or similar conduct of religious practices and activities. This definition
includes functionally related internal facilities (i.e., kitchens, multi-
purpose rooms, storage, etc.) and residences for clergy. Associated uses (i.e.,
day care centers or full-time or part-time schools) may be allowed as
incidental uses to the primary use. See also ASSEMBLY USES.
   PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT. An area of land controlled by an owner to be
developed with a number or mix of dwelling units or mixed-use development the
plan for which may not correspond to lot size, bulk or type of dwelling,
density, lot coverage, street widths, setbacks, and/or required open space to
the regulations established in any one residential district created from time
to time under the provisions of this title.
   PLANNING COMMISSION. The Planning Commission of the County of San Benito.
   PLOT. Same as LOT.
   PORTABLE SIGN. A sign that is not permanently in a fixed location and not
attached to the ground or a building. Personal apparel, appearance, commercial
mascots, hand-held signs and signs on automobiles are not within this
definition.
   POULTRY. Chickens, ducks, geese, pigeons, pheasants, peafowl, turkeys,
guinea fowl and similar birds raised for eggs, meat, or other products.
   PRIMARY or PRIMARY USE. The principal or predominant use of land or a
structure, generally based on the area of land or building devoted to the use.
A PRIMARY USE will generally comprise at least 75% of the total area used,
although the Director may make a different determination per
Chapter 25.01 of this code. (See also INCIDENTAL USE.)
   PRIMARY DWELLING. An existing or proposed single family home on a lot with
an accessory dwelling unit.
   PRIMARY SURFACE. Defined as:
      (1)   A surface longitudinally centered on a runway. When the runway has
a specially prepared hard surface, the PRIMARY SURFACE extends 200 feet beyond
each end of that runway.
      (2)   The elevation of any point on the primary surface is the same as
the elevation of the nearest point on the runway centerline.
   PRINCIPAL BUILDING. The building in which is conducted the principal use of
the parcel on which it is located. Lots with multiple principal uses may have
multiple principal buildings, but storage buildings, garages and other clearly
accessory uses shall not be considered PRINCIPAL BUILDINGS.
   PROFESSIONAL OFFICE. An establishment for professional, executive and
administrative offices, including those of accountants, lawyers, doctors,
dentists, architects, engineers, drafting offices, insurance agents, real
estate agents and other occupations which are of similar character. See also
PERSONAL SERVICES.
   PROTECTED ZONE. For the purpose of implementing the Tree Preservation
regulations of this title, refers to all lands zoned Single Family Residential
(R-1) or Residential Multiple District (RM).
   PUBLIC SEWER. A sewer disposal system regulated by the Water Quality Control
Board and operated by a mutual sewer system, corporation, public agency or
public utility.
   PUBLIC TRANSIT. A location, including but not limited to a bus stop or train
station, where the public may access buses, trains, and other forms of
transportation that charge set fares, run on fixed routes, and are available to
the public.
   PUBLIC WATER. A water system regulated by the Water Quality Control Board
and operated by a mutual water system, corporation, public agency or public
utility.
   REAL ESTATE SIGN. A sign that advertises a real property, building or tenant
space for sale, exchange, lease or other economic transaction. All signs within
the scope of Cal. Civil Code § 713 are within this definition. This definition
does not include signs concerning transient occupancy, such as vacancy signs at
hotels and motels.
   REASONABLE ACCOMMODATION. Any deviation requested and/or granted from the
strict application of the County’s zoning and land use laws, rules, policies,
practices and/or procedures under provisions of federal or California law to
make housing or other facilities readily accessible to and usable by persons
with disabilities and thus enjoy equal employment or housing opportunities or
other benefits guaranteed by law.
   RECREATIONAL TRAILER PARK. Any area or tract of land where one or more lots
are rented or leased or held out for rent or lease to owners or users of
recreational vehicles or tents and which is occupied for temporary purposes.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLES. See §
25.08.022 of this title.
   REMODEL. An improvement or alteration to the exterior or interior of a
building that requires a building permit.
   REMOVAL/REMOVE. The uprooting, cutting or severing of the main trunk, or
major branches of a tree or any act which causes, or may be reasonably expected
to cause a tree to die, including but not limited to the following: inflicting
damage upon the a tree or a root system of a tree by machinery, storage of
materials, soil compaction or other means; substantially changing the grade
above the root system or trunk of the tree; or excessively or severely pruning
or root pruning.
   RENEWABLE ENERGY. Energy produced from geothermal, solar, or wind energy.
Does not include energy created from the burning of any type of fuel.
   RENEWABLE ENERGY GENERATION FACILITY, COMMERCIAL SCALE. A facility which
generates electricity from geothermal, solar, or wind energy primarily for
offsite users or utilities.
   RENEWABLE ENERGY GENERATION FACILITIES, PRIVATE NON-COMMERCIAL. A facility
which generates electricity from geothermal, solar, or wind energy primarily
for use on-site.
   RESIDENTIAL AREA TO BE DEVELOPED. For the purpose of implementing the
Planned Development section of this title, refers to the area of land to be
developed for residential lots and associated recreation and subdivision
improvements.
   RESIDENTIAL CARE FACILITIES. A facility licensed by the State of California
to provide living accommodations, 24-hour care for persons requiring personal
services, supervision, protection, or assistance with daily tasks. Amenities
may include shared living quarters, with or without a private bathroom or
kitchen facilities. This classification includes those both for and not-for-
profit institutions but excludes supportive housing and transitional housing.
      (1)   SMALL. A facility that is licensed by the State of California to
provide care for six or fewer persons.
      (2)   LARGE. A facility that is licensed by the State of California to
provide care for more than six persons.
   RESIDENTIAL FACILITY, ASSISTED LIVING. A facility that provides a
combination of housing and supportive services for the elderly or functionally
impaired, including personalized assistance, congregate dining, recreational,
and social activities. These facilities may include medical services. Examples
include assisted living facilities, retirement homes, and retirement
communities. These facilities typically consist of individual units or
apartments, with or without kitchen facility, and common areas and facilities.
The residents in these facilities require varying levels of assistance.
   RESIDENTIAL ZONES. Includes the following zones: Rural Residential (RR),
Single Family Residential (R-1), and Residential Multiple (RM).
   RETAIL SALES, LARGE SCALE. The sale of retail goods to the general public in
stores of 50,000 square feet or more. See also RETAIL SALES, SMALL SCALE.
   RETAIL SALES, SMALL SCALE. The sale of retail goods to the general public in
stores of less than 50,000 square feet. See also PERSONAL SERVICES.
   RIDGELINE. A line connecting the highest points along a ridge and separating
drainage basins above a 15% slope.
   RIPARIAN CORRIDOR. An area comprised of habitat strongly influenced and
delineated by the presence of perennial or intermittent streams.
   ROADSIDE STAND. A permanent or temporary building, often small in size,
placed for the purpose of selling produce and agricultural products.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/fb9621aeb40cfcace25e7d8581ab7f5ecac73a18/
IMAGES/0-0-0-6895.png]
 
A roadside stand
   ROOF ELEMENTS. Any item attached to a building extending above the maximum
elevation of the roof, such as antennae, air conditioning equipment, vents,
facades, decorative elements, etc.
   RUNWAY. A defined area on an airport prepared for landing and takeoff of
aircraft along its length.
   RUNWAY PROTECTION ZONE. A trapezoidal area at ground level which coincides
with the end of the primary surface and is 250 feet wide. The RUNWAY PROTECTION
ZONE expands outward uniformly to a width of 450 feet at a horizontal distance
of 1,000 feet from the primary surface. The RUNWAY PROTECTION ZONE underlies
the utility runway visual approach slope.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/fb9621aeb40cfcace25e7d8581ab7f5ecac73a18/
IMAGES/0-0-0-6893.png]
 
Runway Protection Zone
   RURAL FARMWORKER HOUSING. Housing accommodations as described in § 17008(b)
of the Employee Housing Act (Cal. Health and Safety Code § 17008(b)) which
includes housing located in an agricultural zone, and in a rural area as
defined in Cal. Health and Safety Code § 50101; provided by someone other than
an agricultural employer; and provided for five or more farmworkers of any
agricultural employer(s) for any of the following purposes:
      (1)   Temporary or seasonal occupancy.
      (2)   Permanent occupancy, if the housing accommodation is a mobilehome,
manufactured home, travel trailer, or recreational vehicle.
      (3)   Permanent occupancy, if the housing accommodation consists of one
or more existing, conventionally built (i.e., subject to State Housing Code –
Cal. Health and Safety Code §§ 17910 — 17998.3, also known as “stick-built”)
structure(s) on the site that are at least 30 years old, and at least 51% of
the dwelling units or 51% of the beds in group quarters in the existing
structure(s), are occupied by farmworkers.
   SCAR. A visible cut in a hillside with a slope greater than 1½:1 in which
all topsoil has been removed and vegetation will be unable to establish itself
after a significant period of time (five years).
   SEASONAL OCCUPANCY or SEASONAL EMPLOYEE HOUSING. Farmworker housing which is
operated annually on the same site and which is occupied for not more than 180
days in any calendar year, as further defined in § 17010(b) of the Act (Cal.
Health and Safety Code § 17010(b)).
   SENIOR CITIZEN. An individual 55 years or older.
   SERIOUS HARM. With regard to a tree, any act or activity that causes damage
to a tree (including without limitation its root system), thereby leaving the
tree in a physical state that, in the judgment of any certified arborist
retained by the County; (i) makes the death of the tree reasonably eminent;
(ii) significantly shortens the normal life expectancy of the tree; or (iii)
makes it impossibly or reasonably unlikely that the tree can be fully restored
to a condition of good health and/or normal appearance within 30 calendar days
of such harm having been inflicted.
   SETBACK or SETBACK LINE. A line defined in this code to govern the placement
of buildings or structures with respect to property lines, streets, access
easements, rights-of-way, or alleys.
   SHALL. SHALL is mandatory and indicates a standard, requirement, etc., which
must be met.
   SHORT-TERM RENTAL. A use in which a dwelling, or portion thereof, is rented
for tourist or transient purposes for compensation for a period of less than 28
consecutive calendar days, and the renter is given exclusive use of the
dwelling. The definition shall include any arrangement in which the rental
period is less than 28 consecutive days or can be reduced below 28 consecutive
days, or in which the dwelling is rented multiple times within 28 consecutive
days.
   SIGN. Any device, fixture, placard or structure, including its component
parts, which by display of a visual image communicates a message or information
regarding an object, product, place, activity, opinion, idea, person,
institution, organization or place of business, or which identifies or promotes
the interests of any person, and which is visible from any street, road,
highway, right-of-way or public parking area. Notwithstanding the generality of
the foregoing, the following are not within the definition of SIGN for the
purposes of this article:
      (1)   Architectural features including decorative or ornamental elements
of buildings, not including letters, trademarks or moving parts.
      (2)   Automatic teller machines (ATMs).
      (3)   Cornerstones, foundation stones, and similar permanent indicators
of date of construction, dedication or installation.
      (4)   Cultural and holiday decorations of a noncommercial nature, mounted
on private residential property that pertain to cultural and religious
observances.
      (5)   Fireworks.
      (6)   Grave markers. Including gravestones, insignia on tombs, mausoleums
and other insignia of the deceased, which are part of a burial internments,
mausoleum or memorial site.
      (7)   Hot air balloons that carry persons and do not display general
advertising images.
      (8)   Interior signs not visible from the public right-of-way.
      (9)   Manufacturer’s marks on tangible products, such as trademarks and
logos, which identify the make, seller, provider or product and that
customarily, remain attached to the product or its packaging after sale.
      (10)   News racks including any self-service or coin-operated box,
container, storage unit, fixture or other dispenser placed, installed or
maintained for display and sale or other distribution of one or more
newspapers, periodicals or other publications.
      (11)   Non-commercial symbols integrated into architecture, such as
symbols of non-commercial organizations or concepts including, but not limited
to: religious or political symbols, when such are permanently integrated into
the structure of a permanent building which is otherwise legal. By way of
example and not limitation, such symbols include church bells, stained glass
windows, carved doors, artistic sanctuary.
      (12)   Party jumps, including inflatable gymnasium devices, commonly used
at birthday parties.
      (13)   Personal appearance items or devices of personal apparel,
decoration or appearance, including apparel, tattoos, makeup, masks and
costumes, but not including hand-held commercial signs or commercial mascots.
      (14)   Shopping carts, golf carts, personal scooters, and similar small
personal transportation devices, when not used for the display of general
advertising. Any vehicle which may legally traverse by its own power on any
state road or federal highway is not within this definition.
      (15)   Special event signage temporarily used in conjunction with special
events, parades, demonstrations, protests and street closures.
      (16)   Vending machines.
      (17)   Visual images on trains or duly licensed public mass transit
vehicles which legally pass through the county.
   SINGLE-FAMILY DWELLING. A dwelling unit that is designed for occupancy by
one household. See also MULTIPLE FAMILY DWELLING.
   SINGLE-FAMILY FARMWORKER HOUSING. Housing accommodations occupied by no more
than six farmworkers for which the owner/operator has obtained or seeks a
license pursuant to § 17021.5 of the Employee Housing Act (Cal. Health and
Safety Code § 17021.5), which allows such projects to be deemed a single-family
dwelling and a residential use of the property.
   SINGLE-UNIT, TWO-UNIT, and MULTI-UNIT. For the purposes of the Accessory
Dwelling Unit regulations in this title, means the same, respectively, as
single-family, duplex, and multi-family residential units.
   SITE ANALYSIS. A process where a homeowner meets with staff before
development plans have progressed substantially to discuss potential site
constraints, conceptual plans, design considerations, neighborhood
compatibility, and general standards and guidelines in designing a home.
   SLOPE. A mathematical expression of an inclined ground surface, the
inclination of which is expressed as a ratio of vertical distance (rise), or
change in elevation, to the horizontal distance (run). The percent of any given
slope is determined by dividing the rise by the run, multiplied by 100.
   SLOPE DENSITY FORMULA. The size of lots allowed in a new subdivision based
on a formula that increases the minimum lot size allowed as the slope of the
site increases. Also see INTENSITY OF DEVELOPMENT.
   SLOPE TRANSITION. The area where a slope bank meets the natural terrain or a
level graded area either vertically or horizontally.
   SMALL ANIMAL KEEPING. The raising or keeping, or both, of small animals. See
Chapter 25.08 for limits on the number of animals which may be raised or kept.
   SMALL FARM ANIMALS. Any animal weighing ten pounds of less commonly kept on
a farm, including poultry, rabbits, etc. See also LIVESTOCK, SMALL and POULTRY.
   SMALL LIVESTOCK. See LIVESTOCK, SMALL.
   SMALL LIVESTOCK FARMING. The raising or keeping, or both, of small farm
animals and small livestock.
   SOFFIT. The exposed undersurface of any exterior overhanging section of a
roof eave.
   STABLE, COMMERCIAL. An accessory structure attached to, or detached from,
the main building, occupied by one or more large livestock animals, where
compensation is paid for the keeping of five or more animals, whether the
compensation be direct or indirect. Also includes a structure occupied by five
or more animals which are used for giving lessons for either the care of, or
riding of, animals, which lessons are offered for compensation.
   STABLE, PRIVATE. An accessory structure, attached to or detached from the
main building, occupied by one or more large livestock animals primarily for
the use of the property owner and/or residents. Compensation may be paid for
the keeping of no more than four animals.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION. The first placement of permanent construction of a
primary structure (other than a manufactured home) on a site, such as the
pouring of slabs or footings or any work beyond the stage of excavation.
Construction is not considered to be started by land preparation, such as
clearing, grading, and filling, or by the installation of streets and/or
walkways, or by excavation for a basement, footings, piers, or foundations, or
the erection of temporary forms. Construction is also not considered to be
started by the installation on the property of accessory buildings, such as
garages or sheds not occupied as dwelling units or not as part of the main
structure.
   STORY. That portion of a building included between the surface of any floor
and the surface of the next floor above it, or if there is no floor above it
then the space between the floor and the ceiling next above it.
   STREET FRONTAGE. The property line of a parcel abutting the right-of-way to
which such parcel has a legal right of access.
   STREET LINE. The boundary between a street and abutting property.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/fb9621aeb40cfcace25e7d8581ab7f5ecac73a18/
IMAGES/0-0-0-6891.png]
 
Street line highlighted
   STREET, PUBLIC. A street or roadway which has been dedicated to and accepted
by the County of San Benito, the State of California, or another city.
   STRUCTURAL ALTERATION. Any change in the supporting members of a building
such as bearing walls, columns, beams or girders.
   STRUCTURAL WALLS. Any bearing wall of a building.
   STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected in a fixed location on the
ground. A STRUCTURE includes items which may not require a building permit,
such as small prefabricated sheds. STRUCTURE does not include items which are
clearly intended to be easily moved, such as a portable BBQ. STRUCTURE does not
include the following: flagpoles, in-ground swimming pools; walls; driveways,
sidewalks, parking spaces, and patios and other uncovered paved areas.
   STRUCTURE MOUNTED SIGN. A sign that is permanently in a fixed location on a
building. “Portable sign” is not included in this definition.
   STRUCTURE, OUTDOOR ADVERTISING. Any structure of any kind or character,
erected or maintained for outdoor advertising sign purposes.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. Any repair, reconstruction or improvement of a
structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds 50% of the market value either:
      (1)   Before the improvement or repair started; or
      (2)   If the structure has been damaged and is being restored, before the
damage occurred. For the purposes of this definition, SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT
is considered to occur when the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor or
other structural part of the building commences, whether that alteration
affects the external dimensions of the structure.
   SUPPORTIVE HOUSING. Dwelling units with no limit on length of stay, that are
occupied by the target population as defined in Cal. Health and Safety Code §
53260(d), and that are linked to onsite or offsite services that assist the
supportive housing resident in retaining the housing, improving his or her
health status, and maximizing his or her ability to live and, where possible,
work in the community.
   SWIMMING POOL. Any tank or pool created artificially and designed for the
purpose of containing a body of water offering the possibility of use for
swimming, bathing or total body immersion and any portion which exceeds 24
inches in depth and which pool or tank is not readily portable in design or
construction.
   TANDEM PARKING. Two or more automobiles parked on a driveway or in any other
location on a parcel, lined up behind one another.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/fb9621aeb40cfcace25e7d8581ab7f5ecac73a18/
IMAGES/0-0-0-6889.png]
 
Tandem parking (right) and standard parking (left)
   TARGET POPULATION. As defined in Cal. Gov’t Code § 65582, TARGET POPULATION
means persons with low incomes who have one or more disabilities, including
mental illness, HIV or AIDS, substance abuse, or other chronic health
condition, or individuals eligible for services. It may include, among other
populations, adults, emancipated minors, families with children, elderly
persons, young adults aging out of the foster care system, individuals exiting
from institutional settings, veterans, and homeless people.
   TEMPORARY OCCUPANCY or TEMPORARY EMPLOYEE HOUSING. Farmworker housing which
is not operated on the same site annually, and which is established for one
operation and then removed, as further defined in § 17010(a) of the Employee
Housing Act (Cal. Health and Safety Code § 17010(a)).
   TEMPORARY SIGN. Any sign not installed for more than 30 days and not
permanently mounted.
   TINY HOMES. See §
25.08.029 for a definition and information related to tiny homes.
   TOWNHOUSE. A dwelling unit that for one household which located on a
separate lot from any other unit (except a second dwelling unit, where
permitted), and is attached through common walls to one or more dwellings on
abutting lots. See also CONDOMINIUM.
   TRAILER. A vehicle designed and used for human habitation and with its
wheels in place.
   TRANSITIONAL HOUSING. Housing that has a predetermined end point in time and
operated under a program that requires the termination of assistance, in order
to provide another eligible program recipient to the service (per Cal. Gov’t
Code § 1954.12). The program length is typically no less than six months.
   TREE. For the purpose of implementing the Tree Preservation regulations in
this title, TREE shall mean any living tree having at least one trunk of eight
inches or more in diameter measured four and one-half feet above the ground, or
a multi-trunked tree having an aggregate diameter of ten inches or more,
measured four and one-half feet above the ground (dbh). TREE does not include
the following fruit and nut trees: almonds, apples, apricots, avocados,
cherries, chestnuts, mandarins, nectarines, olives, oranges, peaches, pears,
pecans, persimmons, pistachios, plums, or English walnuts. This exception shall
only apply to trees varieties which are cultivated for edible fruit production.
Decorative, ornamental, landscaping or flowering varieties of the above trees
are not exempt.
   TREES OF SPECIAL PROTECTION. Shall include any of the following:
      (1)   HERITAGE TREES. Any tree, regardless of species, which has a trunk
diameter of 36 inches or greater measured four and one-half feet above the
ground;
      (b)   A tree shown to be preserved on an approved development plan or
specifically required by the Planning Commission to be retained as a condition
of approval of an entitlement;
      (c)   A tree required to be planted as mitigation or replacement for the
removal of a protected tree; and/or
      (d)   A LANDMARK TREE. Any tree or grove of trees, or type of tree,
designated by resolution of the Board of Supervisors to be of historical or
cultural value, an outstanding specimen, an unusual or native species and/or of
significant community benefit.
   TRIPLEX DWELLING. See DWELLING, TRIPLEX.
   TWO-FAMILY DWELLING. See DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY.
   UNMANNED AERIAL VEHICLE TAKEOFF AND LANDING FACILITY. A facility designed
for the takeoff and landing of unmanned aircraft, such as drones used for
package deliveries.
   UNMANNED AIRCRAFT SYSTEM. An aircraft without a pilot or passengers on
board, operated remotely. Commonly known as a DRONE.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/fb9621aeb40cfcace25e7d8581ab7f5ecac73a18/
IMAGES/0-0-0-6887.png]
 
Unmanned aircraft carrying a package.
   USE. The purpose for which land or premises or a building thereon is
designed, arranged or intended, or for which it is, or may be occupied or
maintained.
   USE, ACCESSORY. A use accessory to and customarily a part of the permitted
use, which use is clearly incidental and secondary to the permitted use and
which does not change the character thereof.
   USE, PRINCIPAL. The main use of land and buildings and the main purpose for
which land and buildings exist. The principal use of property may occupy less
than a majority of either the land area, the area of structures, or both.
   UTILITY RUNWAY. A runway that is constructed for and intended to be used by
propeller-driven aircraft of 12,500 pounds maximum gross weight and less.
   UTILITY RUNWAY VISUAL APPROACH ZONE. The inner edge of this approach zone
coincides with the end of the primary surface and is 250 feet wide. The
approach zone expands outward uniformly to a width of 1,250 feet at a
horizontal distance of 5,000 feet from the primary surface. Its centerline is
the continuation of the centerline of the runway.
   VARIANCE. The procedure whereby the strict application of the provisions of
this title relating to height, area, yard requirements or other requirements of
this title may be modified in a particular instance. See
Chapter 25.02.
   VETERINARY HOSPITAL. A facility for the medical care and treatment
(including surgery) of large animals, not commonly kept as house pets,
including livestock, hybrid or wild animals. VETERINARY HOSPITALS may include
the treatment of pets and boarding kennels only as uses that are accessory to
the treatment and care of large animals.
   VIEWING AREA. Any public road/highway that adjoins the property line of the
lot being developed.
   VISUAL RUNWAY. A runway intended solely for the operation of aircraft using
visual approach procedures.
   WAREHOUSING, STORAGE, AND WHOLESALING AND DISTRIBUTION. Indoor storage and/
or sale of goods to other firms for resale; storage of goods for transfer to
retail outlets of the same firm; or storage and sale of materials and supplies
used in production or operation, including janitorial and restaurant supplies.
This use includes cold storage, freight moving and storage, warehouses, and
wholesalers. Wholesalers are primarily engaged in business-to-business sales
but may sell to individual consumers through mail or internet orders. They
normally operate from a warehouse or office having little or no display of
merchandise and are not designed to solicit walk-in traffic. See also PERSONAL
STORAGE.
   WILD ANIMAL. Any animal which is not normally domesticated in the United
States including, but not limited to, any lion, tiger, bear, non-human primate
(monkey, chimpanzee and the like), wolf, cougar, ocelot, wildcat, skunk,
raccoon, ferret, venomous reptile, boa, python, anaconda, members of the order
Crocodilian, or other such animal (ferae naturae), regardless of its actual or
asserted state of docility, tameness or domesticity.
   WINERY. A facility for the fermenting and processing of grape juice into
wine or the refermenting of still wine into sparkling wine. Includes:
      (1)   The storage and aging of wine and the bottling of wine.
      (2)   Tasting of wine produced onsite and providing food either free or
for sale.
      (3)   The use of the facility for events (weddings, parties, etc.).
      See also AGRICULTURAL PROCESSING.
   YARD. 
      (1)   An open space other than a court on the same building site with a
building, which open space is unoccupied and unobstructed from the ground
upward, not including any portion of any street, road or alley, access easement
or road right-of-way.
      (2)   For the purpose of implementing the Tree Preservation regulations
of
Chapter 25.08, the following definitions apply:
         (a)   BACKYARD. Shall be defined as the open space area on the same
lot as a dwelling, located between the furthest rear portion of a primary
dwelling and extending to the rear property line. For purposes of
Chapter 25.08, BACKYARD does not infer “Rear Yard” as defined by County Code,
Title 25.
         (b)   SIDE-YARD. Shall be defined as the yard area located on each
side of the primary dwelling on a parcel, beginning at the furthest front
portion of a primary dwelling, extending to the furthest rear portion of a
primary dwelling and bounded by the nearest side property line. For purposes of
Chapter 25.08, SIDE-YARD does not infer “Side Yard” as defined by County Code,
Title 25.
   YARD, FRONT. The area between the primary structure and the front lot line.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/fb9621aeb40cfcace25e7d8581ab7f5ecac73a18/
IMAGES/0-0-0-6885.png]
 
Front yard is the area between the primary structure and the front lot line.
   YARD, REQUIRED FRONT. The area between the front lot line and the front
setback line.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/fb9621aeb40cfcace25e7d8581ab7f5ecac73a18/
IMAGES/0-0-0-6883.png]
 
Required front yard is established by the front setback line.
   YARD, REQUIRED. The area between a lot line and the setback line
corresponding to that line.
   YARD, REAR. The area between the rear of the primary building on a lot and
the rear property line.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/fb9621aeb40cfcace25e7d8581ab7f5ecac73a18/
IMAGES/0-0-0-6881.png]
 
Rear yard is the area between the primary structure and the rear property line.
   YARD, REAR, REQUIRED. The area between the rear lot line and the rear
property line.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/fb9621aeb40cfcace25e7d8581ab7f5ecac73a18/
IMAGES/0-0-0-6879.png]
 
Required rear yard is defined by the rear setback line.
   YARD, SIDE. The area between the primary structure and each side lot line.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/fb9621aeb40cfcace25e7d8581ab7f5ecac73a18/
IMAGES/0-0-0-6877.png]
 
Side yard is the area between the primary structure and the side lot line.
   YARD, SIDE, REQUIRED. A yard along each sideline of the lot to a width
required by the district in which the lot is situated and extending from the
front yard setback line to the rear yard setback line.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/fb9621aeb40cfcace25e7d8581ab7f5ecac73a18/
IMAGES/0-0-0-6923.png]
 
Required side yard is established by the side setback line.
(Ord. 1043 § 3 (part), 2022)
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to California Codes
References to 1966 Code
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO CALIFORNIA CODES
CALIFORNIA BUSINESS AND PROFESSIONS CODE
Cal. Code Cite Code Section
Cal. Code Cite                                   Code Section
Chapter 5 (commencing with § 2000) of Division 211.12.016
Division 10                                      25.09.002
Division 10, Chapter 13, §§ 26130 – 26132    19.43.110
5230 through 5231                                25.07.016
5405.3                                           25.07.016
5412 et seq.                                     25.07.016
5412                                             25.07.016
5536.1                                           21.01.021
6300 et seq.                                     3.01.009
6364                                             3.01.009
6735                                             21.01.021
6736.1                                           19.17.003
6762                                             15.05.125
7000 et seq.                                     15.05.078
7593.7                                           9.03.004
7593.8                                           9.03.003
7850                                             15.05.125
8762                                             23.01.005 
8771                                             23.09.003
11003.2                                          23.01.004
11004                                            23.01.004
12024.2                                          9.01.025
12024.6                                          9.01.025
12103.5                                          9.01.025
16100 to 16104                                   Chapter 7.01
16102                                            5.01.091
                                                 5.03.174,
26000 et seq.                                    7.02.020,
                                                 11.15.020,
                                                 25.09.002
26001(f)                                         11.15.030
26001(k)                                         5.03.174
26001(p)                                         5.03.174
26050                                            7.02.050
26060.1(b)                                       7.02.020
26070(a)(3)(A)                                   5.03.174
26100                                            19.43.120
26130 – 26132                                  19.43.110
26150(e)                                         7.02.030
                                                 
 
CALIFORNIA CIVIL CODE
Cal. Code Cite Code Section
Cal. Code Cite                                                            Code
                                                                          Section
Article 3 (commencing with § 3114) of Chapter 2 of Title 15 of Part 4 of 23.17.009
Division 3
12                                                                        1.01.002
14                                                                        1.01.002
51.3                                                                      21.03.013
658                                                                       1.01.002
663                                                                       1.01.002
713                                                                       25.09.002
714(c)(iii)                                                               21.01.171
714(s)(1)(A) and (B)                                                      21.01.176
783                                                                       25.03.002 
801.4(a)(1) and (2)                                                       21.01.171
801.5                                                                     23.15.005
1102 et seq.                                                              19.01.005
1102.6a                                                                   19.01.005
1350 et seq.                                                              23.09.006
1351                                                                      23.01.004,
                                                                          25.09.002
1351(f)                                                                   21.03.013
1353                                                                      23.09.006
1363                                                                      23.09.006
1367                                                                      23.01.004
3426.1(d)                                                                 19.21.006
3479                                                                      1.06.030
4080                                                                      21.01.195
                                                                          
 
CALIFORNIA CODE OF CIVIL PROCEDURE
Cal. Code Cite Code Section
Cal. Code Cite          Code Section
135                     5.01.035
215                     3.01.011
405.20 et seq.          1.06.100
481.200                 3.01.011
564                     1.06.160
683.110 through 683.220 1.06.140
685.010                 5.01.360,
                        5.07.006
697.340                 1.06.140
1032                    1.03.015,
                        15.05.258
1033.5                  1.03.015,
                        15.05.258
                        7.07.025,
1094.5                  15.05.254,
                        25.07.016
                        7.07.025,
1094.6                  15.05.254,
                        25.07.016
1094.8                  25.07.016
1204 through 1208       5.03.066
                        1.06.040,
1822.50 et seq.         9.03.009,
                        11.15.050
                        
 
CALIFORNIA EDUCATION CODE
 
Cal. Code Cite Code Section
—            11.15.030
48222          9.01.053
48224          9.01.052
48264          9.01.055
48265          9.01.055
 
CALIFORNIA ELECTIONS CODE
 
Cal. Code Cite                                    Code Section
Chapter 6 of Division 21, commencing with § 215003.01.040
9140                                              5.03.171
                                                  
 
CALIFORNIA FISH AND GAME CODE
 
Cal. Code Cite Code Section
13003(b)       3.05.103
13100          3.05.103
 
CALIFORNIA FOOD AND AGRICULTURE CODE
Cal. Code Cite Code Section
Cal. Code Cite                        Code Section
Division 15 (commencing with § 32501)7.02.020
Division 17                           7.07.016
2126                                  Chapter 13.01
5401 et seq.                          19.35.006
5705                                  19.35.002
30501 et seq.                         Chapter 13.01
31601 et seq.                         13.01.045
31603                                 13.01.045
31622                                 13.01.046
31643                                 13.01.047
31645                                 13.01.047
42791                                 Chapter 7.07,
                                      7.07.017
42792                                 7.07.017
42792.1                               7.07.017
42793                                 Chapter 7.07
42821                                 7.07.017
43332                                 7.07.024
52401 et seq.                         7.04.002
81005                                 7.04.005
                                      
 
CALIFORNIA GOVERNMENT CODE
Cal. Code Cite Code Section
Cal. Code Cite                                                                Code Section
Article 2 (commencing with § 66433) of Chapter 2 of Division 2 of Title 7    23.09.005
Article 7 (commencing with § 25500) of Chapter 5 of Part 2 of Division 2 of  5.09.001
Title
Article 11 (commencing with § 29530) of Chapter 2 of Division 3 of Title 3   5.03.039
Chapter 4.7 (commencing with § 65970) of Division 1 of Title 7               5.01.161
Chapter 4.9 (commencing with § 65995) of Division 1 of Title 7               23.15.007
Chapter 10 (commencing with § 3500) of Division 4 of Title 1                 3.05.012
Chapter 10 (commencing with § 27460) of Part 3 of Division 2 of Title 3      19.05.007
Part 3 of Division 3.6 of Title 1 (commencing with § 900)                    3.01.123
Part 3 (commencing with § 900) and Part 4 (commencing with § 940), Division 3.01.122
3.6 of Title 1
Title 3, Division 3, Chapter 3, commencing with § 29600                      3.01.121
Division 2 (commencing with § 66410) of Title 7                              11.15.030,
                                                                              19.37.110
Title 7, Division 2 (commencing with § 66410)                                7.02.020
Title 10 (commencing with § 91500)                                           3.05.035
8                                                                             1.01.002
11                                                                            1.01.002
12                                                                            1.01.002
13                                                                            1.01.002
14                                                                            1.01.002
15                                                                            1.01.002
16                                                                            1.01.002
17                                                                            1.01.002
22                                                                            1.01.002
900 et seq.                                                                   3.01.123
907                                                                           1.05.001
910                                                                           3.01.123
935                                                                           3.01.123
935(b)                                                                        3.01.123
940 - 949                                                                     3.01.123
945.6                                                                         3.01.123
946                                                                           3.01.123
950 - 951                                                                     3.01.123
1954.12                                                                       25.09.002
                                                                              3.03.001,
3500 et seq.                                                                  3.03.005,
                                                                              3.05.016,
                                                                              3.05.017
53069.4                                                                       7.14.008
                                                                              5.09.017,
6061                                                                          15.05.007,
                                                                              15.09.006
6062a                                                                         5.01.000
6066                                                                          19.07.004
6250 et seq.                                                                  15.01.054
6800                                                                          1.01.002
6803                                                                          1.01.002
6804                                                                          1.01.002
6805                                                                          1.01.002
6806                                                                          1.01.002
6807                                                                          1.01.002
8558                                                                          11.09.043
8559                                                                          11.01.006
8607                                                                          11.01.002
8610                                                                          11.01.003
19800 et seq.                                                                 3.03.004
24000 et seq.                                                                 Chapter 3.03
24250                                                                         3.01.005
24260                                                                         3.01.005
24262                                                                         3.01.005
24300                                                                         Chapter 3.01
24304                                                                         Chapter 3.01
25100.5                                                                       3.01.140
25132                                                                         11.09.035
25173 through 25175                                                           1.07.070
25359                                                                         1.01.008
25500                                                                         5.09.003
25501                                                                         15.09.011
25526 through 25535                                                           5.09.017
25537                                                                         5.09.017
25800 to 25803                                                                Chapter 13.01
                                                                              1.03.015,
                                                                              1.06.010,
                                                                              1.06.140,
25845                                                                         11.15.010,  
                                                                              17.01.032,
                                                                              19.37.010,
                                                                              19.39.001
25845.5                                                                       1.03.004
25845(c)                                                                      15.05.258
25845(h)                                                                      1.06.110
25845(i)                                                                      1.06.150,
                                                                              11.15.110
26020 to 26028                                                                Chapter 19.03
26614.5                                                                       5.01.375
26945                                                                         3.01.120
27000.7                                                                       3.01.105
27000.8                                                                       3.01.105
27000.9                                                                       3.01.105
27361(a)                                                                      5.01.035
27361(c)                                                                      5.01.035
27361.4(a)                                                                    5.01.035
27361.4(b)                                                                    5.01.035
27361.4(c)                                                                    5.01.035
27397(c)                                                                      5.01.035
27491                                                                         19.05.007
27550 et seq.                                                                 3.01.025,
                                                                              3.01.030
27720                                                                         1.06.110,
                                                                              11.15.110
27720 et seq.                                                                 1.07.010
27720 (Title 3, Division 2, Part 3, Chapter 14)                               1.05.001,
                                                                              1.07.010
27721                                                                         1.07.030,
                                                                              1.07.100
27721(a)                                                                      11.15.110
27721(b)                                                                      1.06.150
27722                                                                         1.07.030,
                                                                              1.07.100
27724                                                                         7.07.025
29701                                                                         3.01.121
29742                                                                         3.01.121
31000 et seq.                                                                 Chapter 3.03
31000.1                                                                       3.05.100
31100                                                                         Chapter 3.03
31115                                                                         Chapter 3.03
50022.1 to 50022.10                                                           Chapter 21.01
50022.2                                                                       21.01.020
50485 to 50485.14                                                             Chapter 19.03
51035 et seq.                                                                 25.08.003,
                                                                              25.08.004
50485.3                                                                       Chapter 19.03
51200 et seq.                                                                 19.01.020,
                                                                              23.07.006
51201(c)                                                                      19.01.023
51205                                                                         19.01.023
53051                                                                         3.05.006
53055                                                                         7.05.030
53055.1                                                                       7.05.030
53055.2                                                                       7.05.030
                                                                              1.04.002,
                                                                              1.04.014,
                                                                              1.06.010,
53069.4                                                                       1.06.070,
                                                                              7.07.025,
                                                                              11.15.010,
                                                                              11.15.090
                                                                              1.06.130,
53069.4(b)                                                                    11.15.110,
                                                                              11.15.120
53088.2                                                                       7.05.030
53723                                                                         5.03.171
53724                                                                         5.03.171
54950 et seq.                                                                 19.01.024
                                                                              5.01.000,
54985                                                                         5.01.035,
                                                                              5.01.111,
                                                                              5.01.116
54986                                                                         5.01.357
54988                                                                         19.37.010,
                                                                              19.39.001
54994.1                                                                       5.01.357
65084                                                                         3.01.030
65085                                                                         3.01.030
65090                                                                         19.29.004
65090 through 65096                                                           25.01.007
65100                                                                         3.05.050
65302                                                                         19.15.001
65355 through 65358                                                           19.29.004
65400                                                                         25.01.006
65401                                                                         25.01.006
65402                                                                         25.01.006
65450 et seq.                                                                 19.29.001
65450 through 65457                                                           25.06.001
65560                                                                         19.15.001
65582                                                                         25.09.002
65582(d)                                                                      25.04.003
65589.5(d)(2)                                                                 21.03.013
65800                                                                         19.15.001
65850.5                                                                       21.01.170,
                                                                              21.01.175
                                                                              21.01.190,
65850.7                                                                       21.01.191,
                                                                              21.01.193—
                                                                              21.01.195
65850.55                                                                      21.01.175,
                                                                              21.01.194
65852.2                                                                       23.01.005
65852.3                                                                       25.08.006
65863.4(d)                                                                    21.03.013
65864                                                                         19.11.002
                                                                              19.11.001,
65864 et seq.                                                                 19.11.006,
                                                                              23.07.009
65867                                                                         19.11.008
65913                                                                         25.08.005
65913.4                                                                       25.08.005
65915 through 65918                                                           21.03.013
65915                                                                         21.03.013,
                                                                              25.07.004
65915 et seq.                                                                 21.03.003
65950                                                                         25.01.006
65970 et seq.                                                                 5.01.190,
                                                                              23.15.007
65971                                                                         23.15.007
65973                                                                         23.15.007
65974                                                                         23.15.007
65976                                                                         23.15.007
65978                                                                         23.15.007
65980                                                                         23.15.007
66000 et seq.                                                                 5.01.451—
                                                                              5.01.461
66001                                                                         5.01.260,
                                                                              5.01.321
66015                                                                         21.01.175
66016                                                                         21.01.176,
                                                                              21.01.194
66016 et seq.                                                                 5.01.000
66018                                                                         5.07.004
                                                                              7.04.002,
66410 et seq.                                                                 11.15.030,
                                                                              23.01.001,
                                                                              23.01.004
66410 (Title 7, Division 2)                                                   1.06.020,
                                                                              11.15.030
66412(d)                                                                      23.01.004,
                                                                              23.01.005
66412(g)                                                                      23.01.005 
66412(h)                                                                      23.01.005 
66412.6(a) or (b)                                                             23.23.002
66426                                                                         23.01.004
66428                                                                         23.03.002,
                                                                              23.03.003
66434.2                                                                       23.09.005
66448                                                                         23.11.002
66452.6(a)                                                                    23.07.009
66452.6(b)                                                                    23.07.009
66452.6(c)                                                                    23.07.009
66462.5                                                                       23.09.008,
                                                                              23.17.003
66464                                                                         23.09.010
66474.2                                                                       23.13.005
66474.4                                                                       23.07.006
66474.6                                                                       23.07.006
66474.9                                                                       19.41.003
66475.3                                                                       23.15.005
66477                                                                         23.15.008
66478                                                                         23.15.006
66483                                                                         5.01.020,
                                                                              23.15.010
66484                                                                         23.15.010
66485 through 66489                                                           23.17.004 
66497                                                                         23.17.009
66499 et seq.                                                                 23.17.009
66499.1                                                                       23.17.009
66499.2                                                                       23.17.009
66499.3(c)                                                                    23.17.009
66499.34                                                                      23.23.003
66499.35(b)                                                                   23.23.003
66499.35(e)                                                                   23.23.003
66499.37                                                                      19.41.003
66499.52(b)                                                                   23.23.003
66499.9                                                                       23.17.009
81000 et seq.                                                                 3.01.151
84214                                                                         3.01.151
87100                                                                         11.17.035
87100 et seq.                                                                 3.05.132,
                                                                              11.11.014
87103                                                                         11.17.035
                                                                              
 
CALIFORNIA HEALTH AND SAFETY CODE
Code Cite Code Section
Code Cite                                          Code Section
                                                   25.04.003,
—                                                25.08.008,
                                                   25.08.024
Division 2, Chapter 1                              25.08.024
Division 2, Chapter 2                              25.08.024
Division 2, Chapter 3.01                           25.08.024
Division 2, Chapter 3.2                            25.08.024
                                                   25.03.005,
Division 2, Chapter 3.6                            25.08.009,
                                                   25.08.010
Division 2, Chapter 8                              25.08.024
Division 2.5                                       5.01.092
Division 2.5, § 1797.212                          5.01.092
Division 10, Chapter 6, Articles 2 and 2.5         25.09.002
Division 13, Part 1                                25.08.022,
                                                   25.08.023
Part 2.5 (commencing with § 18901) of Division 13 21.03.013
Division 20, Chapter 6.5 (§§ 25100 et seq.)      11.07.023
Division 104, Part 7 (§§ 11370 et seq.)          7.14.002
Division 104, Part 7, § 113700                    19.43.110
Chapter 4, Article 5                               7.14.006
Chapter 6.7 of Division 20, §§ 25280 through 252911.07.001
Chapter 11.6                                       7.14.004
1250                                               15.01.051
1443                                               11.09.003
1596.76                                            11.15.030
                                                   25.03.005,
1597.44                                            25.08.009,
                                                   25.09.002
                                                   25.03.005,
1597.45                                            25.08.009,
                                                   25.08.010
1597.46                                            25.03.005,
                                                   25.08.010
1597.46(a)(3)                                      25.08.008
1597.465                                           25.03.005,
                                                   25.09.002
                                                   11.09.002,
1797 et seq.                                       11.09.003,
                                                   19.27.029
1797.224                                           11.09.006
7050.5                                             19.05.007
7150 et seq.                                       11.09.005
11018                                              25.08.024
                                                   5.03.174,
11018.5                                            7.02.020,
                                                   7.04.002
11362.1                                            5.03.176
11362.2                                            5.03.176
11362.2(b)                                         11.15.010
11362.2(b)(4)                                      11.15.040
11362.3(b)(3)                                      7.02.020,
                                                   7.04.002
11362.5 et seq.                                    25.08.024
                                                   7.02.020,
11362.5                                            11.15.020,
                                                   25.08.024
11362.7                                            7.02.020
                                                   5.03.176,
11362.7 et seq.                                    7.02.020,
                                                   11.15.020, ,
                                                   25.08.024
11362.755                                          5.01.086
11362.755(b)                                       5.01.088
11362.777                                          7.02.130
11362.777(g)                                       11.15.010
11362.83                                           11.15.010
11370.4                                            7.02.070
11379.8                                            7.02.070
11570 et seq.                                      21.05.003
18949.29                                           Ch. 5.01, Appendix A
12505                                              11.05.001
12506                                              11.05.001
12511                                              11.05.001
12529                                              11.05.001
13916                                              5.01.340
14930                                              19.37.010,
                                                   19.39.001
14931                                              19.37.010,
                                                   19.39.001
17008                                              25.09.002
                                                   25.03.004,
17008(a)                                           25.03.008,
                                                   25.09.002
                                                   25.03.004,
17008(b)                                           25.03.008,
                                                   25.09.002
17010(a)                                           25.03.008,
                                                   25.09.002
17010(b)                                           25.03.008,
                                                   25.09.002
17021.5                                            25.08.023,
                                                   25.09.002
17021.6                                            25.08.022
17030—17039                                      25.08.022
17032                                              25.08.022
17037                                              25.08.022
17037.5                                            25.08.022
17910—17998.3                                    25.09.002
17920.5                                            19.21.016
17925                                              19.21.016
17951                                              21.01.175,
                                                   21.01.194
17980                                              1.03.004
18551                                              5.03.002
18941.5                                            21.01.020
25100 et seq.                                      25.08.015
25135.7                                            11.07.021
25135.7(a)                                         11.07.024
28520 et seq.                                      Chapter 7.07
31362.7 et seq.                                    25.08.024
50052.5                                            21.03.003,
                                                   21.03.013
50053                                              21.03.003
50074                                              5.09.017
50074.5                                            5.09.017
50079.5                                            21.03.013
50093                                              21.03.013
50101                                              25.09.002
50105                                              21.03.013
50801                                              25.09.002
50801(e)                                           25.04.003
53260(d)                                           25.09.002
101025                                             5.01.091
101325                                             5.01.091
109925                                             7.02.020
109935                                             7.02.020
                                                   Chapter 7.07,
113700 et seq.                                     7.14.003,
                                                   15.01.051
113739.1(a)                                        7.14.006
113758                                             25.09.002,
                                                   7.14.006
113777                                             7.14.003
113781                                             7.14.003
113783                                             15.01.051
113789                                             15.01.051,
                                                   15.01.052
113825                                             7.14.003
113825(a)(3)                                       7.14.003
113825(a)(7)                                       7.14.003
113831                                             25.09.002
113841                                             15.01.051
113842                                             15.01.051
113855                                             7.14.003
113926                                             7.14.003
113934                                             7.14.003
113947.1                                           7.14.004,
                                                   7.14.006
113948                                             7.14.006
114365 et seq.                                     25.08.003,
                                                   25.08.004
114367                                             7.14.001
114367 et seq.                                     7.14.006
114367.2(c)                                        7.14.004
114367.3                                           7.14.007
114390                                             7.14.008
114405                                             7.14.005,
                                                   7.14.008
114407                                             7.14.005
114409                                             7.14.008
114419                                             7.14.006
114432(a)                                          15.01.052
115700 et seq.                                     15.05.190
116270                                             7.14.003
116275(o)                                          7.14.006
119300(c)                                          11.12.002
119323                                             11.12.021
121690                                             13.01.023,
                                                   13.01.030
130100 et seq.                                     11.11.002
130110                                             11.11.002
130140                                             11.11.002
130140.1                                           11.11.015
130150                                             11.11.012
                                                   
 
CALIFORNIA LABOR CODE
 
Cal. Code Cite Code Section
1140.4         25.09.002
1140.4(c)      25.09.002
1720 et seq.   15.09.011
6404.5         11.12.011
               
 
CALIFORNIA MILITARY AND VETERANS CODE
 
Cal. Code Cite Code Section
1260(c)        5.01.144
 
CALIFORNIA PENAL CODE
Cal. Code Cite Code Section
Cal. Code Cite                                                Code Section
—                                                           25.08.024
Article 3, Chapter 5, Title 7, Part 3, commencing with § 60403.01.008
Chapter 1, Title 4, Part 4, commencing with § 13500          3.01.006
Chapter 1, Title 4, Part 4                                    3.01.007
Chapter 5C (commencing with § 853.5) of Title 3 of Part 2    11.03.002
                                                              1.01.007,
19                                                            19.23.006,
                                                              19.35.008
326.5                                                         7.01.021,
                                                              7.01.028
330 to 337z                                                   Chapter 7.03
372                                                           1.01.007
424                                                           5.03.074
496                                                           19.27.051
499c                                                          19.21.006
597b(b)                                                       1.06.030
597t                                                          13.01.041
597.5                                                         1.06.030
637.5                                                         7.05.030
652                                                           11.12.016
667.5(c)                                                      7.02.070
836.5                                                         11.03.002,
                                                              13.01.049
853.6                                                         13.01.049
853.6(a)                                                      19.23.006
1192.7(c)                                                     7.02.070
1208                                                          Chapter 3.01,
                                                              3.01.075
1208.5                                                        Chapter 3.01
4017                                                          1.01.008
4018                                                          1.01.008
6040                                                          Chapter 3.01,
                                                              3.01.008
11105(b)(11)                                                  7.02.110
13300(b)(11)                                                  7.02.110
13510(c)                                                      3.07.002
13512                                                         3.07.003
                                                              Chapter 3.01,
13522                                                         3.01.007,
                                                              3.07.001
13525                                                         3.07.001
                                                              
 
CALIFORNIA PUBLIC CONTRACT CODE
Cal. Code Cite Code Section
Cal. Code Cite     Code Section
12200              5.09.012
12209              5.09.012
12301(c)           5.09.012
12301(d)           5.09.012
20100              15.09.001
20120 et seq.      15.09.011
20131              5.09.008
20150.1 - 20150.14 15.09.005
20150.2(c)         15.09.004
20150.4            5.09.008
20150.5            15.09.005
22002              5.09.018
22032              15.09.050
22032 et seq.      15.09.050
22034              15.09.051
22036              15.09.052
22150 - 22154      5.09.012
                   
 
CALIFORNIA PUBLIC RESOURCES CODE
Cal. Code Cite Code Section
Cal. Code Cite                          Code Section
—                                     25.08.022
                                        19.13.001,
Division 2, Chapter 9 (§§ 2710 et seq.19.13.002,
                                        19.13.003
Division 13, commencing with § 21000   19.13.024,
                                        25.04.003
Division 30 (§§ 40000 et seq.)        15.01.001,
                                        15.01.002
2005                                    5.03.094
2200                                    5.03.094
2207                                    19.13.002,
                                        19.13.003
2207(b)                                 19.13.018
2621 et seq.                            25.08.028
2710 et seq.                            19.13.001
2714                                    19.13.005
2727.11                                 19.13.012
2735                                    19.13.002
2762                                    19.13.023
2770(e)                                 19.13.010
2770(h)(2)                              19.13.014
                                        19.13.007,
2772                                    19.13.009,
                                        19.13.014
2772 through 2773                       19.13.007
2772.1                                  19.13.007
2772.7                                  19.13.007
                                        19.01.023,
2773                                    19.13.007,
                                        19.13.009,
                                        13.13.014
2773(c)                                 19.13.009
2773.1                                  19.13.002,
                                        19.13.010
2773.1(f)                               19.13.010
2773.3                                  19.13.009
2773.3(b)(1)                            19.13.009
2773.3(c)                               19.13.009
2773.4                                  19.13.010
2773.4(a)                               19.13.007
2773.4(b)                               19.13.007
2774                                    19.13.007
2774(b)                                 19.13.014,
                                        19.13.018
2774(b)(1)                              19.13.018
2774(d)(3)                              19.13.018
2774.3                                  19.13.021
2774.5(a)                               19.13.021
2774.5(b)                               19.13.021
3005                                    19.21.004
3008(d) and (e)                         19.21.004
3009                                    19.21.004
3270.1                                  19.21.010
4290                                    23.27.002
4290 et seq.                            25.08.018
4291                                    21.01.021
5097.98                                 19.05.007
14500 et seq.                           25.08.014
21000 et seq.                           7.05.031,
                                        23.07.003
21000 through 21189.3                   19.13.002
21081                                   23.07.006
40050 through 40063                     25.07.014
40191                                   15.01.002
40194                                   15.01.002
42900 through 42911                     25.07.014
                                        
 
CALIFORNIA PUBLIC UTILITIES CODE
Cal. Code Cite Code Section
Cal. Code Cite Code Section
230            23.03.003
5800 et seq.   7.05.027
5830           7.05.028
5840(m)        7.05.027
5860           7.05.029
5860(i)        7.05.029
5870           7.05.033
5870(b)        7.05.033
5870(d)        7.05.033
5870(g)(3)     7.05.033
5870(h)        7.05.033
5880           7.05.032
5900 et seq.   7.05.030
5930(c)        7.05.027
               
 
CALIFORNIA CODE OF REGULATIONS
Cal. Code Cite Code Section
Cal. Code Cite                                                                 Code
                                                                               Section
Division 9, Title 22, § 100083                                                5.01.092
Division 9, Title 22, § 100171                                                5.01.092
Division 9, Title 22, § 100300                                                5.01.092
Title 3, §§ 4900 et seq.                                                     7.04.005
Title 3, §§ 8407 et seq.                                                     19.43.080
Title 4, Division 19                                                           7.02.050
Title 4, § 15000(i)                                                           19.43.100
Title 4, § 15305                                                              19.43.100
Title 4, § 15306                                                              19.43.100
Title 4, § 15307                                                              19.43.100
Title 4, § 15701                                                              19.43.050
Title 8, § 3204 9(e)                                                          11.12.002
Title 8, § 5193                                                               11.12.002,
                                                                               11.12.007
Title 13                                                                       11.09.008
Title 13, § 1238                                                              11.15.030
Title 13, Division 2, Chapter 2, Article 1, §§ 1103 and 1103.2               11.09.017
Title 14                                                                       21.01.197
Title 14, Division 2, Chapter 4, § 1722                                       19.21.006
Title 14, Division 7, Chapter 12                                               15.01.051
Title 14, Division 2, Chapter 8, Article 1 (§§ 3500 et seq.)                 19.13.002,
                                                                               19.13.003
Title 14, Division 2, Chapter 8, Subchapter 1 (§§ 3700 et seq.)              19.13.009
Title 14, § 1760                                                              19.21.004
Title 14, § 3502                                                              19.13.009
Title 14, § 3681                                                              19.13.010
Title 14, § 3705(b)                                                           19.13.009
Title 14, § 3951                                                              19.13.006
Title 14, § 18981.2                                                           15.01.051
Title 14, § 18982(a)(7), (a)(18), (a)(22), (a)(24) through (a)(27), (a)(30),
(a)(35), (a)(38), (a)(39), (a)(45), (a)(64), (a)(71), (a)(73), (a)(74) and (a) 15.01.051
(76)
Title 14, § 18991.3                                                           15.01.052
Title 14, § 18991.3(b)                                                        15.01.052,
                                                                               15.01.053
Title 14, § 18991.4                                                           15.01.052
Title 17, § 11380                                                             7.14.006
Title 18, §§ 3702 et seq.                                                    19.43.080
Title 22                                                                       11.09.041
Title 22, Division 3, Chapter 3, Article 3, §§ 51231.1 and 51231.2           11.09.020
Title 22, Division 6                                                           25.08.008
Title 24                                                                       11.15.030,
                                                                               21.01.021
Title 24, Chapter 1, Division 1, § 1.8.4.2                                    21.01.001
Title 24, Part 2                                                               25.08.007
Title 24, Part 9, § 202                                                       25.08.018,
                                                                               25.09.002
Title 25                                                                       11.15.030
Title 25, § 6932                                                              21.03.003
1238                                                                           7.04.002
3500                                                                           19.13.009
3502(d)                                                                        19.13.002
3505(a)                                                                        19.13.005
3704.1                                                                         19.13.009
3804                                                                           19.13.002
                                                                               
 
CALIFORNIA REVENUE AND TAXATION CODE
Cal. Code Cite Code Section
Cal. Code Cite                                                                   Code
                                                                                 Section
- -                                                                              5.03.005,
                                                                                 5.03.006
Chapter 5 (commencing with § 5096) of Part 9 of Division 1                      5.03.013
Part 0.5 (commencing with § 60) of Division 1 with special reference to §§ 64(5.03.001,
and (d)                                                                          5.03.002
                                                                                 5.03.030,
                                                                                 5.03.032—
Part 1.5, Division 2                                                             5.03.034,
                                                                                 5.03.037,
                                                                                 5.03.038
Part 6. 7 (commencing with § 11901) of Division 2                               5.03.001,
                                                                                 5.03.011
Subdivisions (1) to (8), inclusive, of Subdivision (h) of § 7202                5.03.034
Subdivisions (1) to (10), inclusive, of Subsection (i) of § 7202                5.03.034,
                                                                                 5.03.035
63.1(j)(2)                                                                       5.01.116
70                                                                               5.01.255
75.55                                                                            5.13.010,
                                                                                 5.13.040
97                                                                               5.07.006
                                                                                 5.05.001,
170                                                                              5.05.005—
                                                                                 5.05.008
422                                                                              19.01.022
531.9                                                                            5.13.010,
                                                                                 5.13.050
1611.5                                                                           5.01.111
2188.7                                                                           23.01.005 
4217                                                                             5.01.075
6001 et seq.                                                                     5.03.030
6012                                                                             5.03.174
6067                                                                             5.03.032
6203                                                                             5.03.033
6366                                                                             5.03.033
6366.1                                                                           5.03.033
6701                                                                             5.03.032,
                                                                                 5.03.033
6702                                                                             5.03.032,
                                                                                 5.03.033
6711                                                                             5.03.032,
                                                                                 5.03.033
6715                                                                             5.03.032,
                                                                                 5.03.033
6737                                                                             5.03.032,
                                                                                 5.03.033
6797                                                                             5.03.032,
                                                                                 5.03.033
6828                                                                             5.03.032,
                                                                                 5.03.033
7201                                                                             5.03.030
7202                                                                             5.03.036
7203                                                                             5.03.036
11911(b)                                                                         5.03.009
23701d                                                                           7.01.023
34010(g)                                                                         5.03.174
34021.5                                                                          5.03.171
                                                                                 
 
CALIFORNIA STREETS AND HIGHWAYS CODE
 
Cal. Code Cite          Code Section
Division 2, Chapter 5.5 23.31.002
23                      19.31.003
25                      19.31.003
2006.1                  3.01.031
                        
 
CALIFORNIA VEHICLE CODE
Cal. Code Cite Code Section
Cal. Code Cite                                      Code Section
Chapter 10 (commencing with § 22650) of Division 1117.01.022;
                                                    17.02.003
233                                                 7.04.002,
                                                    11.15.030
285                                                 25.08.004
546                                                 7.04.002,
                                                    11.15.030
2512                                                11.09.003
4604                                                1.06.030
5052                                                1.06.030
12811                                               11.09.005
21459                                               Title 17
21460                                               Title 17
21806                                               Title 17
22358                                               Title 17
22660                                               17.01.020
27454                                               Title 17
35250                                               25.08.029
35706                                               19.27.011
                                                    
 
CALIFORNIA WATER CODE
Cal. Code Cite Code Section
Cal. Code Cite                        Code Section
Article 2 of Chapter 10 of Division 7 15.05.061
Division 7 (commencing with § 13000) 23.07.006
377                                   15.05.255
1215 et seq.                          15.05.001
12750.5                               15.05.078
12752                                 15.05.162
13260                                 23.31.081
13710                                 15.05.061,
                                      15.05.190
13711                                 15.05.190
13712                                 15.05.190
13750 through 13755                   15.05.163
13751                                 15.05.161
 
CALIFORNIA WELFARE AND INSTITUTIONS CODE
Cal. Code Cite Code Section
Cal. Code Cite                                    Code Section
Article 2.8, Chapter 7, Part 3, Division 9        11.17.010
Article 14 of Chapter 2, of Part 1, of Division 2 3.05.085
Article 15, Chapter 2, Part 1, Division 2         3.05.085
Chapter 7, Part 3, Division 9                     11.17.020
233                                               3.05.087
258(a)                                            9.01.055
625.5                                             9.01.055
880 to 892                                        3.05.085
                                                  3.05.002,
12300 et seq.                                     3.05.003,
                                                  3.05.010
12300(a)                                          3.05.002
12300(b) et seq.                                  3.05.002
12301.3 through 12301.6                           3.05.005
                                                  3.05.001,
12301.6                                           3.05.008,
                                                  3.05.018
12302                                             3.05.006,
                                                  3.05.010
12302.1                                           3.05.010
12302.2                                           3.05.014
12302.25                                          3.05.001
12303                                             3.05.006
14087.5 et seq.                                   11.17.010
14087.54                                          11.17.010,
                                                  11.17.060
14087.54(g)                                       11.17.010
17000                                             11.09.003
17403.1                                           5.01.001
18983.4                                           3.05.121
                                                  
 
REFERENCES TO 1966 CODE
1966 Code 2008 Code
1-1       1.01.001
1-2       1.01.002
1-3       1.01.003
1-4       1.01.004
1-5       1.01.005
1-6       1.01.006
1-7       1.01.007
1-8       1.01.008
2-1       3.01.001
2-2       3.01.002
2-3       3.01.003
2-4       3.01.004
2-5       3.01.005
2-6       3.01.006
2-7       3.01.007
2-7.1     3.01.008
2-8       3.01.009
2-8.1     3.01.010
2-8.2     3.01.011
2-9       3.01.025
2-10      3.01.026
2-11      3.01.027
2-12      3.05.050
2-13      3.05.051
2-19      3.05.065
2-20      3.05.066
2-21      3.05.067
2-22      3.05.068
2-23      3.05.069
2-24      3.05.070
2-25      3.05.071
2-26      3.05.072
2-28      3.01.040
2-34      3.01.060
2-35      3.01.061
2-36      3.01.062
2-37      3.01.063
2-38      3.05.085
2-39      3.05.086
2-40      3.05.087
2-41      3.05.088
2-42      3.05.089
2-43      3.05.100
2-44      3.05.101
2-45      3.05.102
2-46      3.05.103
2-47      3.05.104
2-48      3.01.075
2-49      3.01.076
2-50      3.01.077
2-51      3.01.078
2-52      3.01.090
2-53      3.01.091
2-59      5.01.375
2-60      5.01.376
2-61      5.01.377
2-62      5.01.378
2-63      3.01.105
2-64      3.01.120
2-65      3.01.121
2-66      3.01.122
2-67      3.01.140
2-68      3.01.141
2A-1      19.01.001
2A-2      19.01.002
2A-3      19.01.003
2A-4      19.01.004
2A-5      19.01.005
2A-6      19.01.006
2A-7      19.01.007
2A-8      19.01.008
2A-9      19.01.009
3-1       19.03.001
3-2       19.03.002
3-3       19.03.003
3-4       19.03.004
3-5       19.03.005
3-6       19.03.006
3-7       19.03.007
3-8       19.03.008
3-9       19.03.009
3-10      19.03.010
3-11      19.03.011
3-12      19.03.012
4A-1      5.01.001
5-1       21.01.001
5-2       21.01.002
5-3       21.01.003
5-4       21.01.004
5-5       21.01.005
5-6       21.01.006
5-17      21.01.045
5-18      21.01.046
5-19      21.01.047
5-20      21.01.060
5-21      21.01.061
5-22      21.01.062
5-23      21.01.075
5-24      21.01.076
5-25      21.01.077
5-26      21.01.078
5-27      21.01.090
5-28      21.01.091
5-29      21.01.092
5-30      21.01.093
5-31      21.01.094
5-32      21.01.110
5-33      21.01.111
5-34      21.01.112
5-35      21.01.113
5-36      21.01.114
5-37      21.01.117
5-38      21.01.130
5-39      21.01.131
5-40      21.01.132
5-41      21.01.133
5-42      21.01.134
5-43      21.01.135
5-44      21.01.136
5-45      21.01.150
5-46      21.01.151
5-47      21.01.152
5-48      21.01.153
5-49      21.01.154
5A-1      7.03.001
5A-2      7.03.002
5A-3      7.03.003
5A-4      7.03.004
5A-5      7.03.005
5A-6      7.03.006
5A-7      7.03.007
5A-8      7.03.008
5A-9      7.03.009
5A-10     7.03.010
5A-11     7.03.011
5A-12     7.03.012
5A-13     7.03.013
5A-14     7.03.014
5A-15     7.03.015
5B-1      19.05.001
5B-2      19.05.002
5B-3      19.05.003
5B-4      19.05.004
5B-5      19.05.005
5B-6      19.05.006
5B-7      19.05.007
5B-8      19.05.008
5B-9      19.05.009
5B-10     19.05.010
5B-11     19.05.011
5B-12     19.05.012
5B-13     19.05.013
5C-1      19.07.001
5C-2      19.07.002
5D-3      19.09.003
5C-3.1    19.07.003
5C-3.2    19.07.004
5C-4      19.07.005
5D-1      19.09.001
5D-2      19.09.002
5D-4      19.09.004
5D-5      19.09.005
5D-6      19.09.006
5E-1      11.11.001
5E-2      11.11.002
5E-3      11.11.003
5E-4      11.11.004
5E-5      11.11.005
5E-6      11.11.006
5E-7      11.11.007
5E-8      11.11.008
5E-9      11.11.009
5E-10     11.11.010
5E-11     11.11.011
5E-12     11.11.012
5E-13     11.11.013
5E-14     11.11.014
5F-1      3.05.001
5F-2      3.05.002
5F-3      3.05.003
5F-4      3.05.004
5F-5      3.05.005
5F-6      3.05.006
5F-7      3.05.007
5F-8      3.05.008
5F-9      3.05.009
5F-10     3.05.010
5F-11     3.05.011
5F-12     3.05.012
5F-13     3.05.013
5F-14     3.05.014
5F-15     3.05.015
5F-16     3.05.016
5F-17     3.05.017
5F-18     3.05.018
5F-19     3.05.019
5F-20     3.05.020
5F-21     3.05.021
6-1       11.01.001
6-2       11.01.002
6-3       11.01.003
6-4       11.01.004
6-6       11.01.005
6-7       11.01.006
6-8       11.01.007
6-9       11.01.008
6-10      11.01.009
6A-1      7.05.001
6A-2      7.05.002
6A-3      7.05.003
6A-4      7.05.004
6A-5      7.05.005
6A-6      7.05.006
6A-7      7.05.007
6A-8      7.05.008
6A-9      7.05.009
6A-10     7.05.010
6A-11     7.05.011
6A-12     7.05.012
6A-13     7.05.013
6A-14     7.05.014
6A-15     7.05.015
6A-16     7.05.016
6A-17     7.05.017
6A-18     7.05.018
6A-19     7.05.019
6A-20     7.05.020
6A-21     7.05.021
6A-22     7.05.022
6A-23     7.05.023
6A-24     7.05.024
6A-25     7.05.025
6A-26     7.05.026
6A.1-1    5.01.020
6A.1-2    5.01.021
6A.1-3    5.01.022
6A.1-4    5.01.023
6A.1-5    5.01.024
6A.05-1   19.11.001
6A.05-2   19.11.002
6A.05-3   19.11.003
6A.05-4   19.11.004
6A.05-5   19.11.005
6A.05-6   19.11.006
6A.05-7   19.11.007
6A.05-8   19.11.008
6A.05-9   19.11.009
6A.05-10  19.11.010
6A.05-11  19.11.011
6A.05-12  19.11.012
6A.05-13  19.11.013
6A.05-14  19.11.014
6B-1      11.03.001
6B-2      11.03.002
6B-3      11.03.003
6B-4      11.03.004
6B-5      11.03.005
6C.1-1    5.01.035
6C.1-2    5.01.036
6C.1-3    5.01.045
6C.1-4    5.01.046
6C.1-5    5.01.047
6C.1-6    5.01.048
6A.1-6    5.01.025
6C.1-7    5.01.049
6C.1-8    5.01.050
6C.1-9    5.01.060
6C.1-10   5.01.061
6C.1-11   5.01.062
6C.1-12   5.01.063
6C.1-13   5.01.064
6C.1-14   5.01.065
6C.1-15   5.01.075
6C.1-16   5.01.085
6C.1-17   5.01.086
6C.1-18   5.01.087
6C.1-19   5.01.088
6C.1-20   5.01.089
6C.1-21   5.01.090
6D-1      11.05.001
6D-2      11.05.002
6D-3      11.05.003
6D-4      11.05.004
6E-1      19.15.001
6E-2      19.15.002
6E-3      19.15.003
6E-4      19.15.004
6E-5      19.15.020
6E-6      19.15.035
6E-7      19.15.036
6E-8      19.15.037
6E-9      19.15.038
6E-10     19.15.039
6E-11     19.15.040
6E-12     19.15.041
6E-13     19.15.055
6E-14     19.15.056
6E-15     19.15.057
6E-16     19.15.070 
6E-17     19.15.071
6E-18     19.15.072
6E-19     19.15.073
6E-20     19.15.074
6E-21     19.15.075
6E-22     19.15.090
6E-23     19.15.091
6E-24     19.15.092
7-1       7.07.001
7-2       7.07.002
7-3       7.07.003
7-4       7.07.004
7-5       7.07.005
7-6       7.07.006
7-7       7.07.007
7-8       7.07.008
7-9       7.07.009
7-10      7.07.010
7-11      7.07.011
7-12      7.07.012
7-13      7.07.013
7-14      7.07.014
7-15      7.07.015
7-16      7.07.026
7A-1      19.17.001
7A-2      19.17.002
7A-3      19.17.003
7A-4      19.17.004
7A-5      19.17.005
7A-6      19.17.006
7A-7      19.17.007
7A-8      19.17.008
7A-9      19.17.009
7A-10     19.17.010
7A-11     19.17.011
7A-12     19.17.012
7A-13     19.17.013
7A-14     19.17.014
7A-15     19.17.015
7A-16     19.17.016
7A-17     19.17.017
7A-18     19.17.018
7A.1-1    19.19.001
7A.1-2    19.19.002
7A.1-3    19.19.003
7A.1-4    19.19.004
7A.1-5    19.19.005
7A.1-6    19.19.006
7A.1-7    19.19.007
7A.1-8    19.19.008
7B-1      11.07.001
7B-2      11.07.002
7B-3      11.07.020
7B-4      11.07.021
7B-5      11.07.022
7B-6      11.07.023
7B-7      11.07.024
7B-8      11.07.025
7C-1.00   15.05.001
7C-1.10   15.05.002
7C-1.20   15.05.003
7C-1.30   15.05.004
7C-1.40   15.05.005
7C-1.60   15.05.007
7C-1.70   15.05.008
7C-1.80   15.05.009
7C-1.90   15.05.010
7C-2.00   15.05.011
7C-2.10   15.05.012
7C-2.20   15.05.013
7C-2.30   15.05.014
7C-2.40   15.05.015
7C-2.50   15.05.016
7C-2.60   15.05.017
8-1       7.01.020
8-2       7.01.021
8-3       7.01.022
8-4       7.01.023
8-5       7.01.024
8-6       7.01.025
8-7       7.01.026
8-8       7.01.027
8-9       7.01.028
8.1-2     15.05.030,
          15.05.031
8.1-3     15.05.032
8.1-3.1   15.05.033
8.1-4     15.05.034
8.1-5     15.05.035
8.1-6     15.05.036
8.1-7     15.05.037
8.1-8     15.05.038
8.1-9     15.05.039
8.1-10    15.05.040
8.1-11    15.05.041
8.1-12    15.05.042
8.1-13    15.05.043
8.1-14    15.05.044
9-1       17.01.001
9-2       17.01.001
9-3       17.01.003
9-4       17.01.004
9-5       17.01.005
9-6       17.01.006
9-7       17.01.007
9-8       17.01.008
9-9       17.01.020
9-10      17.01.021
9-11      17.01.022
9-12      17.01.023
9-13      17.01.024
9-14      17.01.025
9-15      17.01.026
9-16      17.01.027
9-17      17.01.028
9-18      17.01.029
9-19      17.01.030
9-20      17.01.031
9-21      17.01.032
9-22      17.01.033
10-1      9.01.004
10-1.01   9.01.001
10-1.02   9.01.002
10-1.03   9.01.003
10-2      9.01.005
10-3      9.01.006
10-4      9.01.007
10-6      9.01.011
10-7.1    9.01.025
10-7.2    9.01.026
10-7.3    9.01.027
10-7.4    9.01.028
10-7.5    9.01.029
11-14     19.21.030
11A-1     5.01.120
11A-2     5.01.121
11A-3     5.01.122
11A-4     5.01.123
11A-5     5.01.124
11A-6     5.01.125
11A-7     5.01.126
11B-1     5.01.140
11B-2     5.01.141
11B-3     5.01.142
11B-4     5.01.143
11B-5     5.01.144
11B-6     5.01.145
11B-7     5.01.146
11C-1     19.23.001
11C-2     19.23.002
11C-3     19.23.003
11C-4     19.23.004
11C-5     19.23.005
11C-6     19.23.006
12-2      3.03.001
12-3      3.03.002
12-4      3.03.003
12-5      3.03.004
12-6      3.03.005
12-7      3.03.006
12-8      3.03.007
12-9      3.03.008
12-10     3.03.009
12-11     3.03.010
12-12     3.03.011
12-13     3.03.012
12-14     3.03.013
12-15     3.03.014
12A-1     7.09.001
12A-2     7.09.002
12A-3     7.09.003
12A-4     7.09.004
12A-5     7.09.005
12A-6     7.09.006
12A-7     7.09.007
12A-8     7.09.008
12A-9     7.09.009
12A-10    7.09.010
12A-11    7.09.011
12A-12    7.09.012
12A-13    7.09.013
12B-1     19.25.001
12B-2     19.25.002
12B-3     19.25.003
12B-4     19.25.004
12B-5     19.25.005
12B-6     19.25.006
12B-7     19.25.007
12B-8     19.25.008
12B-9     19.25.009
12B-10    19.25.010
12B-11    19.25.011
12B-12    19.25.012
12B-13    19.25.013
12B-14    19.25.014
12B-15    19.25.015
12B-16    19.25.016
12B-17    19.25.017
12B-18    19.25.018
12B-19    19.25.019
12B-20    19.25.020
12B-21    19.25.021
12B-22    19.25.022
12B-23    19.25.023
12C-1     3.07.001
12C-2     3.07.002
12C-3     3.07.003
13B-1     5.05.001
13B-2     5.05.002
13B-3     5.05.003
13B-4     5.05.004
13B-5     5.05.005
13B-6     5.05.006
13B-7     5.05.007
13B-8     5.05.008
13B-9     5.05.009
13C-1     3.05.035
13C-2     3.05.036
13C-3     3.05.037
14-1      19.27.001
14-2      19.27.002
14-2.1    19.27.003
14-3      19.27.004
14-4      19.27.005
14-5      19.27.006
14-6      19.27.007
14-7      19.27.008
14-8      19.27.009
14-9      19.27.010
14-9.1    19.27.011
14-9.2    19.27.012
14-9.3    19.27.013
14-10     19.27.025
14-11     19.27.026
14-12     19.27.027
14-13     19.27.028
14-14     19.27.029
14-15     19.27.030
14-16     19.27.031
14-17     19.27.032
14-18     19.27.033
14-19     19.27.034
14-19.1   19.27.035
14-19.2   19.27.036
14-19.3   19.27.037
14-19.4   19.27.038
14-19.5   19.27.039
14-20     19.27.050
14-21     19.27.051
14-22     19.27.052
15-1      5.03.030
15-2      5.03.031
15-3      5.03.032
15-4      5.03.033
15-5      5.03.034
15-5.1    5.03.035
15-5.2    5.03.036
15-6      5.03.037
15-7      5.03.038
15-8      5.03.039
15A-1     5.01.160
15A-2     5.01.161
15A-3     5.01.162
15A-4     5.01.163
15A-5     5.01.164
15A-6     5.01.175
15A-7     5.01.176
15A-8     5.01.177
15A-9     5.01.178
15A-10    5.01.179
15A-11    5.01.190
15A-12    5.01.191
15A-13    5.01.192
15A-14    5.01.193
15A-15    5.01.205
15A-16    5.01.206
15A-17    5.01.207
15A-18    5.01.208
15A-19    5.01.220
15A-20    5.01.221
15A-21    5.01.222
15A-22    5.01.223
15A-23    5.01.235
15A-24    5.01.236
15A-25    5.01.237
15A-26    5.01.238
15B-1     5.01.250
15B-2     5.01.251
15B-3     5.01.252
15B-4     5.01.253
15B-5     5.01.254
15B-6     5.01.255
15B-7     5.01.256
15B-8     5.01.257
15B-9     5.01.258
15B-10    5.01.259
15B-11    5.01.260
15B-12    5.01.261
15B-13    5.01.262
15B-14    5.01.263
15C-1     5.01.280
15C-2     5.01.281
15C-3     5.01.282
15C-4     5.01.283
15C-5     5.01.284
15C-6     5.01.285
15C-7     5.01.286
15C-8     5.01.287
15C-9     5.01.288
15C-10    5.01.289
15C-11    5.01.290
15C-12    5.01.291
15C-13    5.01.292
15C-14    5.01.293
15C-15    5.01.294
15C-16    5.01.295
15C-17    5.01.296
15D-1     5.01.310
15D-2     5.01.311
15D-3     5.01.312
15D-4     5.01.313
15D-5     5.01.314
15D-8     5.01.317
15D-11    5.01.320
15D-12    5.01.321
15D-13    5.01.322
15D-14    5.01.323
15D-15    5.01.324
15D-16    5.01.325
15E-1     5.01.340
15E-2     5.01.341
15E-3     5.01.342
16-1      15.07.001
16-2      15.07.002
16-3      15.07.003
16-4      15.07.004
16-5      15.07.020
16-6      15.07.021
16-7      15.07.022
16-8      15.07.023
16-9      15.07.024
16-10     15.07.025
17-1      23.01.001
17-2      23.01.002
17-3      23.01.003
17-4      23.01.004
17-5      23.01.005
17-6      23.01.006
17-7      23.01.007
17-8      23.03.001
17-9      23.03.002
17-10     23.03.003
17-11     23.05.001
17-12     23.05.002
17-13     23.05.003
17-14     23.05.004
17-15     23.05.005
17-16     23.07.001
17-17     23.07.002
17-18     23.07.003
17-19     23.07.004
17-20     23.07.005
17-21     23.07.006
17-22     23.07.007
17-23     23.07.008
17-24     23.07.009
17-25     23.07.010
17-26     23.07.011
17-27     23.09.001
17-28     23.09.002
17-29     23.09.003
17-30     23.09.004
17-31     23.09.005
17-32     23.09.006
17-33     23.09.007
17-34     23.09.008
17-35     23.09.009
17-36     23.09.010
17-37     23.09.011
17-38     23.11.001
17-39     23.11.002
17-40     23.11.003
17-41     23.11.004
17-42     23.11.00
17-43     23.11.006
17-44     23.11.007
17-45     23.11.008
17-46     23.13.001
17-47     23.13.002
17-48     23.13.003
17-49     23.13.004
17-50     23.13.005
17-51     23.13.006
17-52     23.15.001
17-53     23.15.002
17-54     23.15.003
17-55     23.15.004
17-56     23.15.005
17-57     23.15.006
17-58     23.15.007
17-59     23.15.008
17-60     23.15.009
17-61     23.15.010
17-63     23.17.001
17-64     23.17.002
17-65     23.17.003
17-66     23.17.004
17-67     23.17.005
17-68     23.17.006
17-69     23.17.007
17-70     23.17.008
17-71     23.17.009
17-72     23.17.010
17-73     23.17.011
17-74     23.17.012
17-75     23.19.001
17-76     23.19.002
17-77     23.19.003
17-78     23.19.004
17-79     23.19.005
17-80     23.19.006
17-90     23.23.001
17-91     23.23.002
17-92     23.23.003
17-93     23.23.004
17-94     23.23.005
17-95     23.23.006
17A-1     5.03.050,
          23.25.001
17A-2     5.03.051,
          23.25.002
17A-3     5.03.052,
          23.25.003
17A-4     5.03.053,
          23.25.004
17A-5     5.03.054,
          23.25.005
17A-6     5.03.055,
          23.25.006
17A-7     5.03.056,
          23.25.007
17A-8     5.03.057,
          23.25.008
17A-9     5.03.058,
          23.25.009
17A-10    5.03.059,
          23.25.010
17A-11    5.03.060,
          23.25.011
17A-12    5.03.061,
          23.25.012
17A-13    5.03.062,
          23.25.013
17A-14    5.03.063
17A-15    5.03.064
17A-16    5.03.065
17A-17    5.03.066
17A-18    5.03.067
17A-19    5.03.068
17A-20    5.03.069
17A-21    5.03.070
17A-22    5.03.071
17A-23    5.03.072
17A-24    5.03.073
17A-25    5.03.074
17B-1     15.03.001,
          23.27.001
17B-2     15.03.020,
          23.27.002
17B-3     15.03.021,
          23.27.003
17B-4     15.03.022,
          23.27.004
17B-5     15.03.023,
          23.27.005
17B-6     15.03.024
17B-7     15.03.025
17B-8     15.03.026
17B-9     15.03.027
17B-10    15.03.040
17B-11    15.03.041
17B-12    15.03.042
17B-13    15.03.043
17B-14    15.03.044
17B-15    15.03.045
17B-16    15.03.046
17B-17    15.03.047
17B-18    15.03.048
17C-1     15.05.060
17C-2     15.05.061
17C-3     15.05.075
17C-4     15.05.076
17C-5     15.05.077
17C-6     15.05.078
17C-7     15.05.079
17C-8     15.05.080
17C-9     15.05.081
17C-10    15.05.095
17C-11    15.05.110
17C-12    15.05.125
17C-13    15.05.140
17C-14    15.05.141
17C-15    15.05.142
17C-16    15.05.143
17C-17    15.05.144
17C-18    15.05.160
17C-19    15.05.161
17C-20    15.05.162
17C-21    15.05.163
17C-22    15.05.175
17C-23    15.05.176
17C-25    15.05.205
17C-26    15.05.206
17C-27    15.05.207
17C-28    15.05.208
17C-29    15.05.209
17D-1     15.05.225
17D-2     15.05.226
17D-3     15.05.227
17D-4     15.05.228
17D-5     15.05.229
17D-6     15.05.230
18A-1     19.01.020
18A-2     19.01.021
18A-3     19.01.022
18A-4     19.01.023
18A-5     19.01.024
18A-6     19.01.025
18A-7     19.01.026
18A-8     19.01.027
18B-1     19.35.001
18B-2     19.35.002
18B-3     19.35.003
18B-4     19.35.004
18B-5     19.35.005
18B-6     19.35.006
18B-7     19.35.007
18B-8     19.35.008
18B-9     19.35.009
18B-10    19.35.010
19-1      1.03.001
19-2      1.03.002
19-3      1.03.003
19-4      1.03.004
19-5      1.03.005
19-6      1.03.006
19-7      1.03.007
19-8      1.03.008
19-9      1.03.009
19-10     1.03.010
19-11     1.03.011
19-12     1.03.012
19-13     1.03.013
19-14     1.03.014
19A-1     21.05.001
19A-2     21.05.002
19A-3     21.05.003
19A-4     21.05.004
19A-5     21.05.005
19A-6     21.05.006
19A-7     21.05.007
19A-8     21.05.008
19A-9     21.05.009
19A-10    21.05.010
19A-11    21.05.011
19A-12    21.05.012
19A-13    21.05.013
19A-14    21.05.014
19A-15    21.05.015
20-1      9.03.001
20-2      9.03.002
20-3      9.03.003
20-4      9.03.004
20-5      9.03.005
20-6      9.03.006
20-7      9.03.007
20-8      9.03.008
20-9      9.03.009
20-10     9.03.010
20-11     9.03.011
20-12     9.03.012
20-13     9.03.013
20-14     9.03.014
20-15     9.03.015
20-16     9.03.016
20A-100   7.01.001
20A-101   7.01.002
20A-102   7.01.003
20A-103   7.01.004
20A-104   7.01.005
20A-105   7.01.006
21-100    5.03.090
21-101    5.03.091
21-102    5.03.092
21-103    5.03.093
21-104    5.03.094
21-105    5.03.095
21-106    5.03.096
21-107    5.03.097
21-108    5.03.098
21-109    5.03.099
21-110    5.03.100
21-111    5.03.101
21-200    5.03.120
21-201    5.03.121
21-202    5.03.122
21-203    5.03.123
21-204    5.03.124
21-205    5.03.125
21-206    5.03.126
21-207    5.03.127
21-208    5.03.128
21-209    5.03.129
21-210    5.03.130
21-211    5.03.131
21-212    5.03.132
21-213    5.03.133
21-214    5.03.134
21-215    5.03.135
21-216    5.03.136
21-217    5.03.137
21-218    5.03.138
21-219    5.03.139
21-220    5.03.140
21-300    5.03.155
21-301    5.03.156
21A-1     5.01.355
21A-2     5.01.356
22-1      5.07.001
22-2      5.07.002
22-3      5.07.003
22-4      5.07.004
22-5      5.07.005
22-6      5.07.006
23-1      1.05.001
25-1      15.01.001
25-2      15.01.002
25-3      15.01.020
25-4      15.01.021
25-5      15.01.022
25-6      15.01.023
25-7      15.01.024
25-8      15.01.025
25-9      15.01.026
25-10     15.01.027
25-11     15.01.028
25-12     15.01.029
25-13     15.01.040
25-14     15.01.041
25-16     15.01.042
25-17     15.01.043
25-18     15.01.044
25-19     15.01.060
25-20     15.01.061
25-21     15.01.062
25-22     15.01.063
25-23     15.01.064
25-24     15.01.065
25-25     15.01.066
25-26     15.01.080
25-27     15.01.081
25-28     15.01.095
25-29     15.01.096
25-30     15.01.097
25-31     15.01.098,
          15.01.099
30-1.0    19.29.002
30-2.0    19.29.003
30-3.0    19.23.004
30-6.0    19.29.006
30-7.0    19.29.001
32-1      19.31.001
32-2      19.31.002
32-3      19.31.003
32-4      19.31.004
32-5      19.31.005
32-6      19.31.006
32-7      19.31.007
32-8      19.31.008
32-9      19.31.009
32-10     19.31.010
32-11     19.31.011
32-12     19.31.012
32-13     19.31.013
32-14     19.31.014
32-15     19.31.015
32-16     19.31.016
32-17     19.31.017
33-1      19.33.001
33-2      19.33.002
33-3      19.33.003
33-4      19.33.004
33-5      19.33.005
33-6      19.33.005
33-7      19.33.007
33-8      19.33.008
33-9      19.33.009
33-10     19.33.010
33-11     19.33.011
33-12     19.33.012
33-13     19.33.013
33-14     19.33.014
33-15     19.33.015
33-16     19.33.016
34-1      7.11.001
34-2      7.11.002
34-3      7.11.003
34-4      7.11.004
34-5      7.11.005
34-6      7.11.006
34-7      7.11.007
34-8      7.11.008
34-9      7.11.009
34-10     7.11.010
34-11     7.11.011
34-12     7.11.012
34-13     7.11.013
34-14     7.11.014
34-15     7.11.015
34-16     7.11.016
34-17     7.11.017
34-18     7.11.018
34-19     7.11.019
34-20     7.11.020
37-1      3.05.120
37-2      3.05.121
37-3      3.05.122
37-4      3.05.123
37-5      3.05.124
37-6      3.05.125
37-7      3.05.126
37-8      3.05.127
37-9      3.05.128
37-10     3.05.129
37-11     3.05.130
37-12     3.05.131
37-13     3.05.132
          
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Code Section
Ord. No.  Code Section
1         3.01.009
4         1.01.008
8         3.01.002,
          3.01.003
75        19.27.010
115       17.01.001
134       17.01.004,
          17.01.005
          9.01.005,
155       9.01.006,
          19.27.007
163       3.05.085
164       3.05.086
165       19.27.009
167-1/2   3.05.065—
          3.05.068
170       3.01.005
          9.01.004,
174       17.01.002,
          17.01.003
          17.01.006,
184       19.27.001—
          19.27.008
185       19.21.030
          7.07.001—
187       7.07.015,
          7.07.026
188       15.07.020—
          15.07.025
189       15.07.001—
          15.07.004
          5.03.030—
193       5.03.034,
          5.03.037,
          5.03.038
206       3.01.025—
          3.01.027
          5.03.030,
224       5.03.032—
          5.03.034
231       19.03.001—
          19.03.012
232       3.01.006,
          3.01.007
243       3.01.001
251       3.05.087—
          3.05.089
253       3.01.002,
          3.01.004
255       7.03.001—
          7.03.015
257       9.01.007
261       17.01.007,
          17.01.008
268       17.01.002
          17.01.020—
277       17.01.026,
          17.01.028—
          17.01.033
292       19.25.001—
          19.25.023
293       19.27.011
297       7.09.001—
          7.09.013
298       17.01.002
301       7.09.004
305       17.01.002
312       7.05.001—
          7.05.026
316       11.03.001—
          11.03.005
317       17.01.002
          5.03.030,
321       5.03.032,
          5.03.033,
          5.03.039
329       19.27.003
          5.03.032,
338       5.03.033,
          5.03.035,
          5.03.036
350       9.01.001—
          9.01.003
352       3.01.005
353       3.01.002,
          3.01.004
          17.01.022,
362       17.01.027—
          17.01.030,
          17.01.032
          3.01.060,
367       3.01.061,
          3.01.063
368       3.01.062
374       7.05.012
376       7.01.020—
          7.01.028
379       3.05.100—
          3.05.104
          5.01.160—
          5.01.164,
          5.01.175—
          5.01.179,
          5.01.190—
407       5.01.193,
          5.01.205—
          5.01.208,
          5.01.220—
          5.01.223,
          5.01.235—
          5.01.238
420       17.01.002
430       3.01.062
443       3.01.008
458       17.01.002
          5.03.032—
465       5.03.034,
          5.03.036
466       9.01.011
468       5.01.001
484       3.05.050,
          3.05.051
487       3.05.035—
          3.05.037
494       11.07.001,
          11.07.002
499       5.03.050—
          5.03.074
          21.01.001—
          21.01.006,
          21.01.045—
          21.01.047,
          21.01.060—
          21.01.062,
          21.01.075—
501       21.01.078,
          21.01.090—
          21.01.094,
          21.01.110—
          21.01.115,
          21.01.150,
          21.01.151,
          21.01.154
510       3.01.075—
          3.01.078
513       3.01.090—
          3.01.091
514       17.01.002
          15.03.001,
          15.03.020—
519       15.03.027,
          15.03.040—
          15.03.048
521       19.27.050—
          19.27.052
529       5.01.020—
          5.01.025
533       19.27.012,
          19.27.013
534       5.01.375—
          5.01.378
541       19.19.001—
          19.19.008
542       5.01.120—
          5.01.126
544       3.01.010
546       3.03.001—
          3.03.014
548       3.03.008
551       3.01.001
554       5.01.250—
          5.01.263
557       3.07.001—
          3.07.003
560       3.01.001
          15.05.030—
564       15.05.032,
          15.05.034—
          15.05.044
          1.03.001—
          1.03.009,
567       1.03.011—
          1.03.013,
          19.01.027
568       9.03.001—
          9.03.016
          1.01.007,
          9.03.016,
570       15.05.043,
          19.03.011,
          21.01.150—
          21.01.154
          5.01.310—
          5.01.314,
574       5.01.317,
          5.01.320—
          5.01.325
575       11.05.001—
          11.05.004
579       11.07.020—
          11.07.025
582       19.01.020—
          19.01.027
589       5.01.355—
          5.01.361
590       5.07.001—
          5.07.006
591       1.05.001
592       15.05.033,
          15.05.036
594       15.05.225—
          15.05.230
597       5.01.355
          19.15.001—
          19.15.004,
          19.15.020,
          19.15.035—
          19.15.041,
598       19.15.055—
          19.15.057,
          19.15.070—
          19.15.075,
          19.15.090—
          19.15.092
          5.03.090—
          5.03.101,
601       5.03.120—
          5.03.140,
          5.03.155,
          5.03.156
602       5.01.355
605       3.01.040
607       19.01.023
610       19.05.001—
          19.05.013
615       5.03.094,
          5.03.120
          23.01.001—
          23.01.007,
          23.03.001—
          23.03.003,
          23.05.001—
          23.05.005,
          23.07.001—
          23.07.011,
          23.09.001—
          23.09.011,
617       23.11.001—
          23.11.008,
          23.13.001—
          23.13.006,
          23.15.001—
          23.15.010,
          23.17.001—
          23.17.012,
          23.19.001—
          23.19.006,
          23.23.001—
          23.23.006
618       19.01.024
          15.01.001,
          15.01.002,
          15.01.020—
          15.01.029,
          15.01.040—
619       15.01.044,
          15.01.060—
          15.01.066,
          15.01.080,
          15.01.081,
          15.01.095—
          15.01.099
620       3.01.011
621       5.01.035,
          5.01.036
622       5.01.045—
          5.01.050
623       5.01.060—
          5.01.063
624       19.01.001—
          19.01.009
          1.03.003,
625       1.03.010—
          1.03.014
626       5.01.140—
          5.01.146
627       5.01.064,
          5.01.065
629       5.01.075
633       7.01.001—
          7.01.006
635       5.11.001—
          5.11.003
          21.01.130—
638       21.01.136,
          21.01.150—
          21.01.154
639       5.01.280—
          5.01.296
643       5.03.121
644       19.35.001—
          19.35.010
646       19.07.001—
          19.07.005
653       19.11.001—
          19.11.014
654       9.01.002
655       19.23.001—
          19.23.006
658       5.01.144
          15.05.001—
664       15.05.005,
          15.05.008—
          15.05.017
665       19.01.023
672       19.01.021
674       5.01.144
678       3.01.105
679       3.01.120
682       23.17.009
686       3.01.001
688       19.27.025—
          19.27.039
690       19.01.025
691       3.03.007
694       23.01.005
700       19.27.004
702       3.03.004,
          3.03.007
703       19.27.025—
          19.27.039
704       5.01.144
708       19.17.001—
          19.17.018
713       19.09.001—
          19.09.006
715       19.09.001—
          19.09.006
718       11.11.001—
          11.11.014
723       3.01.001
          15.01.001,
          15.01.002,
          15.01.020—
          15.01.029,
          15.01.040—
724       15.01.044,
          15.01.060—
          15.01.066,
          15.01.080,
          15.01.081,
          15.01.095—
          15.01.099
726       11.11.001—
          11.11.014
728       3.03.007
729       3.01.025—
          3.01.027
730       19.01.024
737       11.11.012
          15.01.002,
          15.01.062,
739       15.01.063,
          15.01.066,
          15.01.081
741       3.05.069—
          3.05.072
747       3.01.040
          19.31.001—
          19.31.008,
748       19.31.010—
          19.31.013,
          19.31.015,
          19.31.016
          15.01.002,
749       15.01.021,
          15.01.040,
          15.01.044
755       17.01.002
756       17.01.002
757       19.33.001—
          19.33.016
758       5.01.144
759       3.05.001—
          3.05.021
762       7.11.001—
          7.11.020
          11.11.002—
771       11.11.005,
          11.11.012,
          11.11.013
774       21.05.001—
          21.05.015
          15.01.026—
          15.01.028,
          15.01.040,
776       15.01.041,
          15.01.063,
          15.01.064,
          15.01.096
          3.01.010,
777       9.01.025—
          9.01.029
          15.05.001—
778       15.05.005,
          15.05.007—
          15.05.017
          15.05.060,
          15.05.061,
          15.05.075—
          15.05.081,
          15.05.095,
          15.05.110,
          15.05.125,
779       15.05.140—
          15.05.144,
          15.05.160—
          15.05.163,
          15.05.175,
          15.05.176,
          15.05.205—
          15.05.209
783       5.05.001—
          5.05.009
786       3.05.120—
          3.05.132
787       17.01.002
788       5.01.340—
          5.01.342
790       17.01.002
791       3.01.121,
          3.01.122
793       3.01.140,
          3.01.141
799       11.11.012
          19.17.003,
          19.17.004,
801       19.17.006,
          19.17.009,
          19.17.011,
          19.17.015
804       3.05.145—
          3.05.155
808       5.01.105—
          5.01.109
809       5.01.085—
          5.01.090
816       1.03.006
          19.29.001—
819       19.29.004,
          19.29.006
          5.01.086,
821       5.01.088,
          5.01.089
822       21.01.020—
          21.01.024
823       21.01.021
827       3.01.001
829       23.17.001
832       Adopting Ordinance
833       5.01.060,
          5.01.061
          15.01.040,
834       15.01.041,
          15.01.046
835       3.01.005
836       13.01.001—
          13.01.050
          7.07.016,
837       7.07.017,
          7.07.024—
          7.07.026
838       17.01.002
          5.01.075,
842       5.07.001,
          5.11.001
843       5.01.075
844       17.01.002
849       7.05.027—
          7.05.034
850       3.05.145—
          3.05.155
851       15.09.001—
          15.09.013
852       17.01.002
853       5.09.001—
          5.09.016
          23.01.004,
855       23.25.001,
          23.25.007
          19.37.010—
          19.37.040,
          19.37.110,
          19.37.120,
857       19.37.130,
          19.37.210—
          19.37.240,
          19.37.310,
          19.37.320
858       21.01.021
          23.07.001,
          23.07.005,
          23.09.006,
          23.15.001,
860       23.17.001,
          23.17.006,
          23.25.007,
          23.25.011,
          23.29.001,
          23.31.020
863       21.01.020,
          21.01.021
865       21.09.001—
          21.09.010
          21.03.001—
          21.03.003,
866       21.03.009,
          21.03.012,
          21.03.013,
          21.03.017
867       17.01.002
870       3.01.001
871       3.05.050
          19.39.001—
          19.39.003,
          19.39.010,
          19.39.020,
          19.39.030,
872       19.39.040,
          19.39.050—
          19.39.052,
          19.39.060,
          19.39.070—
          19.39.078
875       3.05.051
876       19.41.001—
          19.41.003
877       5.13.010—
          5.13.050
880       5.01.390
881       3.01.040
          1.03.003,
882       1.03.005,
          1.03.015,
          1.03.016
885       19.29.003
886       17.01.002
889       3.01.012
890       5.01.261
891       19.11.008
892       17.01.002
894       5.01.144
895       5.01.048,
          5.01.049
896       9.01.050—
          9.01.055
897       19.07.006
898       11.01.001—
          11.01.009
903       21.01.110—
          21.01.117
906       5.01.110—
          5.01.112
907       11.12.001—
          11.12.022
908       23.15.008
2012-911  3.01.123
912       5.01.115—
          5.01.117
913       5.01.035,
          5.01.036
914       11.01.005,
          11.01.006
915       5.01.091
916       23.25.007
917       1.04.001—
          1.04.015
918       19.21.001—
          19.21.030
919       5.01.092
920       3.01.091
921       15.05.001,
          15.05.004
923       11.09.001—
          11.09.048
925       11.11.005
927       15.05.245—
          15.05.258
930       19.21.032
932       5.01.092
          11.01.002,
933       11.01.003,
          11.01.005
934       3.01.012
937       11.11.015
940       21.01.170—
          21.01.176
941       19.11.006
          3.05.148,
943       3.05.149,
          3.05.153,
          3.05.154
          5.01.450—
          5.01.452,
945       5.01.454,
          5.01.455,
          5.01.457—
          5.01.461
947       3.01.030,
          3.01.031
          5.01.259,
948       5.01.291,
          5.01.320,
          11.15.010—
          11.15.040,
          11.15.060—
949       11.15.080,
          11.15.120,
          11.15.130,
          11.15.140,
          11.15.145
          21.03.001—
951       21.03.010,
          21.03.012—
          21.03.018
952       11.15.160
953       3.01.145,
          3.01.146
          11.15.010—
959       11.15.130,
          11.15.145—
          11.15.180
960       1.06.010—
          1.06.200
961       1.07.010—
          1.07.110
          5.01.123,
          5.01.289,
          5.01.291,
          5.01.310—
          5.01.314,
          5.01.317,
          5.01.320,
          5.01.322,
          5.01.323,
          5.01.454—
          5.01.455,
          5.01.458,
          5.01.461,
          5.01.510,
962       5.01.520,
          5.01.530,
          5.01.540,
          5.01.610,
          5.01.620,
          5.01.630,
          5.01.640,
          5.01.710,
          5.01.720,
          5.01.730,
          5.01.740,
          5.01.810,
          5.01.820,
          5.01.830,
          5.01.840
          11.15.020,
          11.15.030,
          11.15.040,
          11.15.050,
          11.15.090,
963       11.15.115,
          11.15.120,
          11.15.130,
          11.15.140,
          11.15.145,
          11.15.150,
          11.15.160
966       5.01.035,
          5.01.036
967       7.05.001—
          7.05.034
968       7.05.001—
          7.05.034
          5.03.001—
969       5.03.007,
          5.03.009—
          5.03.017
971       5.01.118
          5.01.000,
          5.01.036,
          5.01.049,
972       5.01.060,
          5.01.061,
          5.01.075,
          5.01.088,
          Ch. 5.01 Appendix A
Measure B 5.03.051,
          5.03.052
Measure C 5.03.170—
          5.03.200
          5.03.090—
          5.03.101,
Measure H 5.03.120—
          5.03.140,
          5.03.155,
          5.03.156
          7.02.010,
          7.02.020,
          7.02.030,
          7.02.040,
          7.02.050 ,
          7.02.051,
          7.02.053—
          7.02.056,
          7.02.070,
          7.02.080,
          7.02.090,
974       7.02.100,
          7.02.110,
          7.02.130,
          7.02.140,
          7.02.150,
          7.02.160,
          7.02.170,
          7.02.190,
          7.02.200,
          7.02.210,
          7.02.220,
          7.02.230
          19.43.010,
          19.43.020,
          19.43.030,
          19.43.040,
          19.43.050,
          19.43.060,
          19.43.070,
975       19.43.080,
          19.43.090,
          19.43.100,
          19.43.110,
          19.43.120,
          19.43.140,
          19.43.150,
          19.43.160
          11.09.007,
          11.09.008,
          11.09.010—
          11.09.012,
977       11.09.017,
          11.09.019—
          11.09.021,
          11.09.027,
          11.09.041,
          11.09.045
979       19.01.023
982       3.03.007
          5.09.002,
983       5.09.004,
          5.09.006,
          5.09.011
984       19.43.040,
          19.43.050
987       3.01.012
988       21.01.092
          7.04.001—
989       7.04.008,
          7.04.010—
          7.04.013
990       5.09.004,
          5.09.006
996       5.09.017
1,002     25.29.062
          7.04.003,
1,003     7.04.005,
          7.04.008,
          7.04.010
          21.01.001,
1,004     21.01.021,
          21.01.022,
          21.01.024
1,005     7.04.003,
          7.04.005
          1.04.001,
1,010     1.04.003,
          1.04.005
1,013     3.01.140
          21.03.001,
          21.03.003—
1,014     21.03.008,
          21.03.010—
          21.03.012,
          21.03.018
1,019     17.02.001—
          17.02.004
          15.01.027,
          15.01.043,
1,020     15.01.060,
          15.01.061,
          15.01.098
1,022     11.05.002A,
          11.05.005
1,023     9.01.060
1,024     3.01.050
1,025     9.04.001—
          9.04.005
1,026     9.01.060
1,029     1.06.010—
          1.06.200
1031      3.01.003
          7.02.030,
1032      7.02.050,
          19.43.040,
          19.43.050
1033      11.17.010—
          11.17.100
          7.02.020,
          7.02.030,
          7.02.040,
          7.02.050,
          7.02.051,
          7.02.053,
          19.43.010,
1036      19.43.040,
          19.43.050,
          19.43.070,
          19.43.080,
          19.43.090,
          19.43.100,
          19.43.120,
          19.43.140
1037      3.05.148
1038      15.01.050—
          15.01.055
1039      3.01.040
1040      5.03.180
          25.01.001—
          25.01.013,
          25.02.001—
          25.02.003,
          25.02.005—
          25.02.012,
          25.03.001—
          25.03.008,
          25.04.001—
          25.04.006,
1043      25.05.001—
          25.05.008,
          25.06.001,
          25.06.002,
          25.07.001—
          25.07.018,
          25.08.001—
          25.08.024,
          25.08.026—
          25.08.029,
          25.09.001,
          25.09.002
1044      7.13.001—
          7.13.005
1046      7.14.001—
          7.14.008
1047      19.29.003
1048      19.29.003
1049      25.08.004
1050      21.01.190—
          21.01.197
          Ch. 5.01 Appendix A,
          21.03.003—
1052      21.03.010,
          21.03.012—
          21.03.015
1053      3.01.146
1054      21.01.001,
          21.01.021
1057      19.13.001—
          19.13.024
1058      15.01.095
          21.03.001,
          21.03.004,
1059      21.03.006—
          21.03.009,
          21.03.012
          5.09.018,
1060      15.09.050—
          15.09.053
1062      25.07.016
1063      15.01.041
          25.02.004,
1066      25.08.025,
          25.08.031
1067      11.18.001—
          11.18.004
          5.09.004,
          5.09.006,
1068      5.09.008,
          5.09.010,
          5.09.012,
          5.09.013
          9.04.003,
1069      9.04.005,
          11.18.004
1070      3.01.150—
          3.01.156
          1.01.001—
          1.01.008,
          1.03.001—
1073      1.03.016,
          1.04.001—
          1.04.015,
          1.06.010—
          1.06.200
          7.02.010,
          7.02.020,
          7.02.030,
          7.02.040,
          7.02.050,
          7.02.051,
          7.02.053—
          7.02.056,
          7.02.070,
          7.02.080,
          7.02.090,
          7.02.100,
          7.02.110,
1074      7.02.130,
          7.02.140,
          7.02.150,
          7.02.160,
          7.02.170,
          7.02.180,
          7.02.190,
          7.02.200,
          7.02.210,
          7.02.220,
          7.02.230,
          7.04.003,
          19.43.010—
          19.43.160
1077      5.03.176
          
 
