CITY CODE
of
SELMA CALIFORNIA
1963
Code current through Ordinance 2025-04, passed April 15, 2025
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
PREFACE
         This code of the City of Selma, as supplemented, contains ordinances
up to and including ordinance 2025-04, passed April 15, 2025. Ordinances of the
City adopted after said ordinance supersede the provisions of this code to the
extent that they are in conflict or inconsistent therewith. Consult the City
office in order to ascertain whether any particular provision of the code has
been amended, superseded or repealed.
                     American Legal Publishing
                     Cincinnati, Ohio
ORDINANCES PENDING REVIEW FOR CODIFICATION
Listed ordinances have been passed, but they are pending review by the
publisher, and they may not amend the code of ordinances. Additionally,
ordinances listed in this section may not show the original ordinances in their
entirety. Please contact the office of the clerk if there are any questions
concerning any listed ordinances.
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE NO. 569
AN ORDINANCE PROVIDING FOR THE CODIFICATION OF THE GENERAL ORDINANCES OF THE
CITY OF SELMA, CALIFORNIA, AND PROVIDING FOR THE ADOPTION OF THE OFFICIAL CODE
OF THE CITY.
THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SELMA, DOES ORDAIN AS FOLLOWS:
Section 1. From and after the date of passage of this Ordinance the Official
City Code of the City of Selma, prepared by Sterling Codifiers, Inc., and
hereby approved and accepted shall be the Official Code of all Ordinances of a
general and permanent character of the City.
Section 2. There is hereby adopted, as a method of perpetual codification, the
loose leaf type of binding together with the continuous supplemental service
whereby each newly adopted Ordinance of a general nature, amending, altering,
adding to, or deleting provisions of this Official City Code is identified by
the proper catch line, and following preparation by Sterling Codifiers, Inc.,
is inserted in the proper place in each of the Official copies. Each such
insertion shall be made within thirty (30) days following the date of adoption
by the Council, and each new provision shall become effective upon such
insertion.
Section 3. At least three (3) copies of this City Code shall at all times be on
file and available for inspection in the office of the Clerk.
Passed and Approved by the Mayor and Council this 15th day of April, 1963.
!!! insert figures !!!
TITLE I
ADMINISTRATIVE
CHAPTER 1
CITY CODE
SECTION:
1-1-1: Title
1-1-2: Acceptance
1-1-3: Amendments
1-1-4: Construction of Words
1-1-5: Interpretations
1-1-1: TITLE:
Upon adoption by the Governing Body this City Code is hereby declared to be and
shall hereafter constitute the official City Code of the City of Selma. Any
reference made to the number of any Section contained herein shall be
understood to refer to the position of the same under its appropriate Chapter
and Title heading, and to the general penalty clause relating thereto, as well
as to the Section itself, when reference is made to this City Code by title in
any legal document.
1-1-2: ACCEPTANCE:
This City Code, as hereby presented in printed form, shall hereafter be
received without further proof in all courts and in all administrative
tribunals of this State as the ordinances of the City of general and permanent
effect.
1-1-3: AMENDMENTS:
Any ordinance amending this City Code shall set forth the Title, Chapter and
Section number of the Section or Sections to be amended, and this shall
constitute a sufficient compliance with any statutory requirement pertaining to
the amendment or revision by ordinance of any part of this City Code. All such
amendments or revisions by ordinance shall be immediately forwarded to Sterling
Codifiers, Inc., and the said ordinance material shall be prepared for
insertion in its proper place in each copy of this City Code. Each such
replacement page shall be properly identified and shall be inserted in each
individual copy of the City Code within thirty (30) days from the date of its
final passage.
1-1-4: CONSTRUCTION OF WORDS:
Whenever any word in any Section of this City Code importing the plural number
is used, in describing or referring to any matters, parties, or persons, any
single matter, party, or person shall be deemed to be included, although
distributive words may not have been used.
When any subject matter, party or person is referred to in this City Code by
words importing the singular number only, or the masculine gender, several
matters, parties, or persons and females as well as males and bodies corporate
shall be deemed to be included. Provided, that these rules of construction
shall not be applied to any Section of this City Code which contains any
express provision excluding such construction or where the subject matter or
content may be repugnant thereto.
1-1-5: INTERPRETATIONS:
In the determination of the provisions of each Section of this Code the
following rules shall be observed:
   (A)   Intent to Defraud: Whenever an intent to defraud is required in order
to constitute an offense, it shall be sufficient if an intent appears to
defraud any person.
   (B)   Liability of Employers and Agents: When the provisions of any Section
of this City Code prohibits the commission of an act, not only the person
actually doing the prohibited act or omitting the directed act, but also the
employer and all other persons concerned with or in aiding or abetting the said
person shall be guilty of the offense described and liable to the penalty set
forth. 1
(1963 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. For Statute authority see Gov. C., Sec. 50022.1 to 50022.8.
CHAPTER 2
SAVING CLAUSE
SECTION:
1-2-1: Repeal of General Ordinances
1-2-2: Public Utility Ordinances
1-2-3: Court Proceedings
1-2-1: REPEAL OF GENERAL ORDINANCES:
All general ordinances of the City passed prior to the adoption of this City
Code are hereby repealed, except such as are referred to herein as being still
in force or are by necessary implication herein reserved from repeal (subject
to the saving clauses contained in the following Section), from which are
excluded the following ordinances which are not hereby repealed; tax levy
ordinances; appropriation ordinances; ordinances relating to boundaries and
annexations; franchise ordinances and other ordinances granting special rights
to persons or corporations; contract ordinances and ordinances authorizing the
execution of a contract or the issuance of warrants; salary ordinances;
ordinances establishing, naming or vacating streets, alleys or other public
places; improvement ordinances; bond ordinances; ordinances relating to
elections; ordinances relating to the transfer or acceptance of real estate by
or from the City; and all special ordinances.
1-2-2: PUBLIC UTILITY ORDINANCES:
No ordinance relating to railroads or railroad crossings with streets and other
public ways, or relating to the conduct, duties, service or rates of public
utilities shall be repealed by virtue of the adoption of this City Code or by
virtue of the preceding Section, excepting as this City Code may contain
provisions for such matters, in which case this City Code shall be considered
as amending such ordinance or ordinances in respect of such provisions only.
1-2-3: COURT PROCEEDINGS:
No new ordinance shall be construed or held to repeal a former ordinance,
whether such former ordinance is expressly repealed or not, as to any offense
committed against such former ordinance or as to any act done, any penalty,
forfeiture or punishment so incurred, or any right accrued or claim arising
under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect any such offense
or act so committed or so done, or any penalty, forfeiture or punishment so
incurred or any right accrued or claim arising before the new ordinance takes
effect, save only that the proceedings thereafter shall conform to the
ordinance in force at the time of such proceeding, so far as practicable. If
any penalty, forfeiture or punishment be mitigated by any provision of a new
ordinance, such provision may be, by the consent of the party affected, applied
to any judgment announced after the new ordinance takes effect.
This Section shall extend to all repeals, either by express words or
implication, whether the repeal is in the ordinance making any new provisions
upon the same subject or in any other ordinance.
Nothing contained in this or the preceding Section shall be construed as
abating any action now pending under or by virtue of any general ordinance of
the City herein repealed; or as discontinuing, abating, modifying or altering
any penalty accrued or to accrue, or as affecting the liability of any person,
firm or corporation, or as waiving any right of the City under any ordinance or
provision thereof in force at the time of the adoption of this City Code. (1963
Code)
CHAPTER 3
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
1-3-1: Definitions, General
1-3-1: DEFINITIONS, GENERAL:
Whenever the following words or terms are used in this Code they shall have the
meaning herein ascribed to them unless the content makes such meaning repugnant
thereto:
   AGENT: The word "Agent" as used in the Code shall mean a person acting on
behalf of another.
   CITY: The word "City" as used in this Code shall mean the City of Selma.
   CODE: The word "Code" unless otherwise specifically stated shall mean this
City Code.
   EMPLOYEES: Whenever reference is made in this Code to a City employee by
title only, this shall be construed as though followed by the words of the City
of Selma.
   FEE: The word "Fee" as used in this Code shall mean a sum of money charged
by the City for the carrying on of a business, profession or occupation.
   KNOWINGLY: The word "Knowingly" imports only a knowledge that the facts
exist which brings the act or omission within the provisions of this Code. It
does not require any knowledge of the unlawfulness of such act or omission.
   LICENSE: The word "License" as used in this Code shall mean the permission
granted for the carrying on of a business, profession or occupation.
   MISDEMEANOR: The word "Misdemeanor" shall mean any offense deemed a
violation of the provisions of this Code which is a lesser offense than a
felony as defined by State law.
   NEGLIGENT: The word "Negligent", as well as "Neglect", "Negligence", and
"Negligently" imports a want of such attention to the nature or probable
consequences of the act or omission as a prudent man ordinarily bestows in
acting in his own concern.
   NUISANCE: The word "Nuisance" shall mean anything offensive or obnoxious to
the health and welfare of the inhabitants of the City; or any act or thing
repugnant to, or creating a hazard to, or having a detrimental effect on the
property of, another person or to the Community.
   OCCUPANT: The word "Occupant" applied to a building or land shall include
any person who occupies the whole or any part of such building or land whether
alone or with others.
   OFFENSE: The word "Offense" shall mean any act forbidden by any provision of
this Code or the omission of any act required by the provisions of this Code.
   OFFICERS: Whenever reference is made in this Code to a City officer by title
only, this shall be construed as though followed by the words of the City of
Selma.
   OPERATOR: The word "Operator" as used in this Code shall mean the person who
is in charge of any operation, business or profession.
   OWNER: The word "Owner" applied to a building or land shall include any part
owner, joint owner, tenant in common, joint tenant or lessee of the whole or of
a part of such building or land.
   PERSON: The word "Person" shall include the singular and the plural and
shall also mean and include any person, firm, corporation, association,
partnership, or any other form of association or organization.
   PERSONAL PROPERTY: The term "Personal Property" shall include every
description of money, goods, chattels, effects, evidence of rights in action
and all written instruments by which any pecuniary obligation, right or title
to property is created, acknowledged, transferred, increased, defeated,
discharged or diminished and every right or interest therein.
   RETAILER: The word "Retailer" as used in this Code, unless otherwise
specifically defined shall be understood to relate to the sale of goods,
merchandise, articles or things in small quantities direct to the consumer.
   STREET: The word "Street" shall include alleys, lanes, courts, boulevard,
public ways, public square, public places and sidewalks.
   TENANT: The word "Tenant" applied to a building or land shall include any
person who occupies the whole or any part of such building or land whether
alone or with others.
   WHOLESALER: The words "Wholesaler" and "Wholesale Dealer" as used in this
Code, unless otherwise specifically defined, shall be understood to relate to
the sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things in quantity to persons who
purchase for the purpose of resale.
   WILFULLY: The term "Wilfully" when applied to the intent with which an act
is done or omitted, implies simply a purpose or willingness to commit the act
or make the omission referred to. It does not require any intent to violate
law, or to injure another, or to acquire an advantage. (1963 Code)
CHAPTER 4
PENALTY
SECTION:
1-4-1: Violations Deemed Infractions Or Misdemeanors When; Penalty
1-4-2: Administrative Citations
1-4-3: Civil Debt
1-4-4: Nuisance
1-4-5: License Revocation
1-4-6: Cumulative; Nonexclusive
1-4-7: Liability Of Officers
1-4-1: VIOLATIONS DEEMED INFRACTIONS OR MISDEMEANORS WHEN; PENALTY:
   (A)   Any person violating any of the provisions or failing to comply with
any of the mandatory requirements of the ordinances of the city shall be guilty
of a misdemeanor, unless the violation is made an infraction by ordinance, the
city attorney, or any court of competent jurisdiction.
   (B)   Except where a different punishment is prescribed by any ordinance of
the city, any person convicted of a misdemeanor for violation of an ordinance
of the city is punishable by a fine of not more than one thousand dollars
($1,000.00), or by imprisonment not to exceed six (6) months, or by both such
fine and imprisonment.
   (C)   Except where a different punishment is prescribed by any ordinance of
the city, any person convicted of an infraction for a violation of an ordinance
of the city of Selma is punishable by:
      1.   A fine not exceeding one hundred dollars ($100.00) for a first
violation;
      2.   A fine not exceeding two hundred dollars ($200.00) for a second
violation of the same ordinance within one year;
      3.   A fine not exceeding five hundred dollars ($500.00) for each
additional violation of the same ordinance within one year.
   (D)   Each and every day a violation of any provision of this code is
committed, exists or continues shall constitute a separate and distinct
offense. (Ord. 2013-9, 11-4-2013)
1-4-2: ADMINISTRATIVE CITATIONS:
Any violation of this code will be subject to an administrative citation
(chapter 20 of this title), unless expressly prohibited. (Ord. 2013-9, 11-4-
2013)
1-4-3: CIVIL DEBT:
The amount of any tax, license, permit, service charge, costs to enforce or
compel compliance of this code or any code incorporated by reference, charge
for any municipal utility service, or any other amount due of any nature
whatsoever imposed by any provision of this code shall be deemed a civil debt
owing to the city. An action may be commenced by the city in any court of
competent jurisdiction for the collection of the amount of any such delinquent
or unpaid tax fee, charge, license or permit, together with any administrative
fee or penalty authorized or required by this code. This remedy shall not
prohibit the use of any other remedy provided by this code or by law and shall
be cumulative. (Ord. 2013-9, 11-4-2013)
1-4-4: NUISANCE:
Notwithstanding any other provision of this code, any condition caused,
maintained, or permitted to exist in violation of any of the provisions of this
code or of the provisions of any code adopted by reference herein shall be
deemed a public nuisance and may be summarily abated by the city pursuant to
chapter 21 of this title. (Ord. 2013-9, 11-4-2013)
1-4-5: LICENSE REVOCATION:
Any person in violation of any section of this code or any code adopted by
reference herein may have any license, permit or other entitlement previously
issued by the city revoked by the city at the discretion of the city manager or
her or his designee. (Ord. 2013-9, 11-4-2013)
1-4-6: CUMULATIVE; NONEXCLUSIVE:
Nothing in this chapter is intended to be an exclusive penalty or remedy and
does not prohibit the application of any other penalty or remedy available
under federal, state or local law. Penalties and remedies described in this
chapter are cumulative. (Ord. 2013-9, 11-4-2013)
1-4-7: LIABILITY OF OFFICERS:
No provision of this code designating the duties of any officer or employee
shall be so construed as to make such officer or employee liable for any fine
or penalty provided for a failure to perform such duty, unless the intention of
the city council to impose such fine or penalty on such officer or employee is
specifically and clearly expressed in the section creating the duty. (Ord.
2013-9, 11-4-2013)
CHAPTER 5
COUNCIL
SECTION:
1-5-1: Meetings
1-5-2: Procedural Rules
1-5-3: Journal Of Proceedings
1-5-4: Vacancy For Absence
1-5-5: Redevelopment Agency
1-5-1: MEETINGS 1
:
   (A)   Regular Meetings: Regular meetings of the City Council shall be held
on the first and third Tuesday of each month, unless otherwise specified by
resolution of the City Council, which shall be adopted at a regular meeting. In
the event that a regular meeting falls on a holiday observed by the City, the
meeting shall be held on the next regular business day. The regular meetings of
the City Council on the first and third Tuesday of each month shall commence at
six o’clock (6:00) p.m., unless otherwise specified by resolution of the City
Council which shall be adopted at a regular meeting. (Ord. 2018-8, 8-20-2018)
   (B)   Special Meetings; Notice: At any time the Mayor or three (3)
Councilmen may call a special meeting by delivering personally, or by mail,
written notice to each member of the Council, and to each local newspaper of
general circulation, radio, or television station which has requested such
notice in writing. Such notice must be delivered personally or by mail at least
twenty four (24) hours before the time of such meeting as specified in the
notice. Such written notice may be dispensed with as to any member who: 1) at,
or prior to, the time the meeting convenes files with the Clerk a written
waiver of such notice; 2) is actually present at the meeting at the time it
convenes. (Ord. 754, 9-7-1976)
   (C)   Special Meetings; Scope: At any special meeting the Council shall act
only on matters referred to in the notice or consent.
   (D)   Meetings; Public: Meetings of the Council shall be public; provided,
however, that nothing herein shall be construed as preventing the Council from
holding executive sessions during a regular or special meeting to consider the
appointment or dismissal of a public officer or to hear complaints or charges
brought against the officer by another officer, unless the officer requests a
public hearing. The Council may also exclude from any meeting, during the
examination of a witness, any other witnesses in the matter being investigated
by the Council 2
.
   (E)   Adjourned Meetings; Hour: When an order of adjournment of a regular
meeting fails to state the hour at which the adjournment meeting is to be held,
it shall be held at the hour specified for regular meetings.
   (F)   Quorum; Adjournment; Compelling Attendance 3
: A majority of the Council shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of
business. Less than a majority may adjourn from time to time and compel
attendance of absent members. (1963 Code)
   (G)   Emergency Meetings 4
: Whenever a state of war emergency exists, or a state of emergency exists, or
a local emergency exists, the City Council shall meet as soon as possible. The
meeting may be called by the Mayor or by three (3) Councilmen, and the place of
meeting need not be within the City of Selma. (Ord. 754, 9-7-1976; amd. Ord.
2025-02, 3-18-2025)
 
Notes
1 1. GOV § 36805 - 36810; 54950 et seq.
2 2. GOV § 54957.
3 1. GOV § 36810.
4 2. GOV § 8642.
1-5-2: PROCEDURAL RULES 1
:
The Council may establish rules for the conduct of its proceedings. It may
punish a member or other person for disorderly behavior at a meeting. (1963
Code)
 
Notes
1 3. GOV § 36813.
1-5-3: JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS 1
:
The council shall cause the clerk to keep a correct record of its proceedings.
At the request of a member, the clerk shall enter ayes and noes in the journal.
(1963 Code)
 
Notes
1 4. GOV § 36814.
1-5-4: VACANCY FOR ABSENCE 1
:
If a councilman absents himself from all regular council meetings for sixty
(60) days consecutively from the last regular meeting he attended, his office
shall become vacant and shall be filled as any other vacancy. (1963 Code)
 
Notes
1 5. GOV § 36513.
1-5-5: REDEVELOPMENT AGENCY 1
:
   (A)   It is hereby found, determined and declared that there is a need for a
redevelopment agency to function in the city in accordance with the provisions
of the community redevelopment law. Said redevelopment agency is hereby
established pursuant to section 33101 of the community development law, to be
known as the Selma redevelopment agency (SRA). Said redevelopment agency is
hereby authorized to transact business and exercise its powers under provisions
of the community redevelopment law.
   (B)   Pursuant to the provisions of section 33200 of the community
redevelopment law, this city council hereby declares itself to be the
redevelopment agency of the city and hereby finds and determines that the
designation of the city council as the redevelopment agency will serve the
public interest and promote the public health, safety and welfare in an
effective manner in that this public body is best able to serve the needs of
the community to implement the purposes of the community redevelopment law.
(Ord. 861, 10-17-1983)
   (C)   The compensation of each member of the redevelopment agency is hereby
fixed at the sum of thirty dollars ($30.00) per meeting for which the agency
member is in attendance, up to a maximum of four (4) meetings per month. (Ord.
2005-12, 12-5-2005)
 
Notes
1 6. HSC § 33000 et seq.
CHAPTER 6
OFFICERS
SECTION:
1-6-1: Governing Officers
1-6-2: Qualifications
1-6-3: Elective Officers; Terms
1-6-4: Oath
1-6-5: Appointments
1-6-6: Vacancies
1-6-7: Bonds Of Officers
1-6-8: Compensation Of Council Members
1-6-9: City Money; Deposit; Reports
1-6-10: Officers; Interest In Contracts
1-6-11: Signature
1-6-1: GOVERNING OFFICERS:
The government of the city shall be vested in the following officers:
   (A)   Council of five (5) members.
   (B)   City administrator.
   (C)   Clerk.
   (D)   Treasurer.
   (E)   Chief of police.
   (F)   Fire chief.
   (G)   Such subordinate officers or employees as are provided by law, and
deemed necessary by the council for the proper administration of the municipal
government 1
. (Ord. 810, 2-19-1980)
 
Notes
1 1. Gov.C. § 36501.
1-6-2: QUALIFICATIONS:
No person shall be eligible to hold office as councilman, clerk or treasurer
unless that person is an elector of, and has resided in this city for thirty
(30) days preceding election or appointment to office. If, during the term of
office, the official changes residence to outside the city limits or ceases to
be an elector of the city, that person's office shall immediately become vacant
1
. (Ord. 742-A, 3-15-1976)
 
Notes
1 2. Gov.C. § 36502.
1-6-3: ELECTIVE OFFICERS; TERMS:
The elective officers of the city shall hold office for a term of four (4)
years, and until their successors are elected and qualified 1
. (1963 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. Gov.C. § 35443.
1-6-4: OATH:
Before entering upon his duties, each city officer shall take and file with the
clerk the constitutional oath of office. (1963 Code)
1-6-5: APPOINTMENTS:
The city administrator shall appoint all subordinate officers and employees of
the city unless otherwise indicated by law. (Ord. 810, 2-19-1980)
1-6-6: VACANCIES:
The council shall fill any vacancy occurring in the elective offices provided
for herein, by appointment. If a vacancy occurs in an elective office and the
council fails to fill it within thirty (30) days, it shall immediately cause an
election to be held to fill the vacancy. Any person appointed or elected to
fill a vacancy shall hold office for the unexpired term of the former
incumbent. (Ord. 810, 2-19-1980)
1-6-7: BONDS OF OFFICERS:
Before entering upon the duties of their offices, the clerk and treasurer shall
each execute a bond to the city. The penal sum of the bond shall be the amount
recommended by the attorney and fixed by the council not less than thirty (30)
days before the election of the officers. The council may require bonds of any
other officer or employee of the city, and shall approve all bonds. When
approved the clerk's bond shall be filed with the mayor and all other bonds
shall be filed with the clerk. (1963 Code)
1-6-8: COMPENSATION OF COUNCIL MEMBERS:
The compensation of each duly qualified council member is hereby fixed at the
sum of three hundred dollars ($300.00) per month. Such change in compensation
shall not take effect until one or more members of the city council begins a
new term of office. (Ord. 2005-12, 12-5-2005)
1-6-9: CITY MONEY; DEPOSIT; REPORTS:
Any officer or employee collecting or receiving money belonging to, or for the
use of, the city shall deposit it immediately in the treasury in the manner
prescribed by law for the benefit of the funds to which it belongs. He shall
report such deposits to, and settle with, the clerk on the first Monday of each
month 1
. (1963 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. Gov.C. § 36522.
1-6-10: OFFICERS; INTEREST IN CONTRACTS:
City officers shall not be interested in any contract made by them in their
official capacity, or by any body or board of which they are members, nor shall
any officers be purchasers at any sale, or vendors at any purchase made by them
in their official capacity. (1963 Code)
1-6-11: SIGNATURE:
All written contracts and conveyances made or entered into by the city and all
instruments requiring the city seal shall be signed by the mayor or the city
administrator and shall be countersigned by the city clerk. (Ord. 837, 3-1-
1982)
CHAPTER 7
MAYOR
SECTION:
1-7-1: Mayor Pro Tempore; Selection
1-7-2: Mayor Pro Tempore
1-7-3: Conduct As Councilman
1-7-4: Signature (Rep. by Ord. 837, 3-1-1982)
1-7-5: Administration Of Oaths; Affidavits
1-7-6: Acknowledgments
1-7-1: MAYOR PRO TEMPORE; SELECTION:
The office of mayor pro tempore shall be for a two (2) year term. In every even
year, on the first regular meeting of the city council in December of such
year, or as soon thereafter as practicable upon the certification of election
results from the general municipal election by the Fresno County registrar of
voters for such year, whichever occurs later, the city council shall select one
of its members as mayor pro tempore. The mayor pro tempore position shall be
held by the city council member receiving a majority vote of the city council.
Any city council person may nominate, and if seconded, the city council shall
vote on the selection of one of its members as mayor pro tempore. Any member of
the city council may vote for himself or herself to occupy the position of
mayor pro tempore. In the event the person selected as mayor pro tempore shall
die, resign, or cease to serve as a council member, a different council member
shall be selected in the same manner to fill the unexpired term of his or her
predecessor. (Ord. 2016-6, 10-17-2016; amd. Ord. 2020-1, 2-3-2020)
1-7-2: MAYOR PRO TEMPORE:
The mayor shall preside at the meetings of the council. If the mayor is absent
or unable to act, the mayor pro tempore shall serve only until the mayor
returns or is able to act. The mayor pro tempore shall have all of the powers
and duties of the mayor in absence of the mayor. If the mayor and mayor pro
tempore are both absent or unable to act, then the council shall appoint one of
its members to serve as presiding officer until the mayor or mayor pro tempore
returns or is able to act 1
. (Ord. 837, 3-1-1982)
 
Notes
1 1. GOV §§ 36802, 40601.
1-7-3: CONDUCT AS COUNCILMAN:
The mayor may make or second any motion and present and discuss any matter as a
member of the council 1
. (1963 Code)
 
Notes
1 2. GOV § 36803.
1-7-4: SIGNATURE:
(Rep. by Ord. 837, 3-1-1982)
1-7-5: ADMINISTRATION OF OATHS; AFFIDAVITS:
The mayor may administer oaths and affirmations, take affidavits and certify
them under his hand 1
. (1963 Code)
 
Notes
1 3. GOV § 40603.
1-7-6: ACKNOWLEDGMENTS:
The mayor may acknowledge the execution of all instruments executed by the city
and required to be acknowledged 1
. (1963 Code)
 
Notes
1 4. GOV § 40604.
CHAPTER 8
CITY CLERK
SECTION:
1-8-1: Office Created
1-8-2: Functions, Powers, And Duties
1-8-1: OFFICE CREATED:
The office of City Clerk is hereby created. The City Clerk shall be the head of
the office of the City Clerk. The City Clerk shall be appointed by the City
Manager and shall, under the direction and supervision of the City Manager,
plan, organize, direct and supervise the activities and staff of the City
Clerk's office. (Ord. 2000-4, 4-17-2000)
1-8-2: FUNCTIONS, POWERS, AND DUTIES:
In addition to the functions, powers, and duties assigned to the City Clerk by
the City Manager and other provisions of the Government Code of the State of
California, the City Clerk shall:
   (A)   Keep an accurate record of the proceedings of the City Council in
books with appropriate titles and devoted exclusively to such purposes.
   (B)   Maintain the official records of the City Council and City, including,
but not limited to, originals, and certified copies of all City ordinances,
resolutions, motions, contracts, memorandum of understandings and all official
actions of the City.
   (C)   Be the custodian of the City Seal.
   (D)   Administer oaths or affirmations and take and certify affidavits and
depositions pertaining to City affairs and business which may be used in any
court or proceedings in the State.
   (E)   Perform all functions, powers and duties consistent with this Code,
assigned by act of the City Council and as set forth in the general laws of the
State. (Ord. 2000-4, 4-17-2000)
CHAPTER 8.5
FINANCE DIRECTOR/TREASURER
SECTION:
1-8.5-1: Office Created
1-8.5-2: Duties
1-8.5-1: OFFICE CREATED:
The office of Finance Director/Treasurer is hereby created. The Finance
Director/Treasurer shall be the head of the Finance Department and shall be
appointed by the City Manager. (Ord. 2000-4, 4-17-2000)
1-8.5-2: DUTIES:
The Finance Director/Treasurer shall under the direction of the City Manager,
plan, organize, direct, and supervise the activities and staff of the Finance
Department involved in the accounting of City funds, the control of
expenditures in accordance with budget appropriations, revenue reporting and
administration, the preparation of the City payroll, and shall perform
professional accounting work. (Ord. 2000-4, 4-17-2000)
CHAPTER 9
TREASURER
(Rep. by Ord. 2000-4, 4-17-2000)
CHAPTER 10
ATTORNEY
SECTION:
1-10-1: Duties
1-10-1: DUTIES:
The City Attorney shall advise City Officials in all legal matters pertaining
to City business; shall frame all ordinances and resolutions required by the
Council; and, shall perform other legal services required from time to time by
the Council. 1
(Ord. 742-A, 3-15-76)
 
Notes
1 1. For Statute authority see Gov. C., Sec. 36505 et seq.
CHAPTER 11
ELECTIONS
SECTION:
1-11-1: City Council Elections
1-11-2: Declaration Of Purpose
1-11-3: City Council Districts Established
1-11-4: Election Of Members Of The City Council By District
1-11-5: Commencement Of District Elections
1-11-1: CITY COUNCIL ELECTIONS:
The general election laws of the State shall be made applicable and shall be
observed in all municipal elections, general or special, held in the City.
(Ord. 2019-8, 12-2-2019)
1-11-2: DECLARATION OF PURPOSE:
The City Council of the City of Selma hereby declares that the change of method
of electing members of this Council hereby enacted is being made in furtherance
of the California Voting Rights Act of 2001. (Ord. 2019-8, 12-2-2019)
1-11-3: CITY COUNCIL DISTRICTS ESTABLISHED:
Four (4) City Council districts and an elected Mayor are hereby established in
the City of Selma. The boundaries and identifying number of each district shall
be as described on the Council District Map attached to Ordinance 2019-8 and
incorporated herein by reference, as if fully depicted herein. (Ord. 2019-8,
12-2-2019)
1-11-4: ELECTION OF MEMBERS OF THE CITY COUNCIL BY DISTRICT:
   (A)   Following the effective date of this chapter and upon the commencement
of "by district" elections of four (4) members of the City Council and an
elected Mayor, in the order established in section
1-11-5 of this code, four (4) members of the City Council shall be elected "by
District" as defined in Government Code section 34871 or any successor statute,
and an elective Mayor shall be elected on a City-wide basis by the voters of
the entire City. No term of any Member of the City Council that commenced prior
to the effective date of this chapter shall be affected by the adoption of this
chapter.
   (B)   Registered voters signing nomination papers or voting for any one (1)
of the four (4) Members of the City Council to be elected by district shall be
residents of the geographical area making up the district from which the Member
is to be elected. Registered voters signing nomination papers or voting for the
elective Mayor shall be residents of the City.
   (C)   The terms of the office of each City Council Member elected to the
City council by district shall be four (4) years. The term of office of the
elective Mayor of the City shall be two (2) years.
   (D)   No person shall simultaneously seek election to the position of
elective Mayor and as City Council Member of any of the four (4) electoral
districts for City Council Members. (Ord. 2019-8, 12-2-2019)
1-11-5: COMMENCEMENT OF DISTRICT ELECTIONS:
   (A)   Commencing with the general municipal election in November of 2022 and
thereafter, the voters in districts two (2) and three (3) shall elect Members
of the City Council by district for full four (4) year terms and the voters of
the entire City shall elect the elective Mayor for a two (2) year term. At the
general municipal election in 2024 and thereafter, the voters in districts one
(1) and four (4) shall elect Members of the City Council by district for full
four (4) year terms, and the voters of the entire City shall elect the elective
Mayor for a two (2) year term.
   (B)   Pursuant to Elections Code Section 21606, the term of office of any
council member who has been elected and whose term of office has not expired
shall not be affected by the amendment of this ordinance or by any change in
the boundaries of the district from which he or she was elected; or, in the
case of the elective Mayor, shall not be affected by any change in or
establishment of any district for election of Council members. (Ord. 2019-8,
12-2-2019; amd. Ord. 2022-2, 4-4-2022)
CHAPTER 12
REVENUE SYSTEM
SECTION:
1-12-1: Transfer of Tax Functions to County
1-12-2: Determination of Necessary Revenue
1-12-3: District Boundaries; Filing
1-12-4: Tax Rates; Statement
1-12-5: Compensation
1-12-6: Collection Time
1-12-7: Tax Sale; Redemption
1-12-8: Apportionment of Redemption Money
1-12-1: TRANSFER OF TAX FUNCTIONS TO COUNTY:
The Assessor and Tax Collector of the County shall perform the duties of
assessment, and tax collection upon all real and personal property for the
City.
1-12-2: DETERMINATION OF NECESSARY REVENUE:
Prior to fixing the rate of taxes, the Council shall fix by ordinance the
amount of revenue from property taxes necessary to support its departments for
the current year and to pay the bonded or other indebtedness of the City, or
any portion or district of the City.
1-12-3: DISTRICT BOUNDARIES; FILING:
On or before the first Monday of July each year, the Council shall cause to be
filed with the Auditor of the County a description of the exterior boundary of
each district or portion of the City in which a rate of taxation is to be
levied which is different from the rate to be levied in any other district or
portion of the City.
1-12-4: TAX RATES; STATEMENT:
Annually before September 1 the Council shall fix the rate of taxes, or rates
of taxes if different portions or districts require different rates, designated
in the number of cents upon one hundred dollars ($100.00) using as a basis the
value of the property as assessed and equalized. The rates shall be sufficient
to raise the amount fixed by ordinance and the expense of collection. The
Council shall immediately transmit to the County Auditor a statement of the
rates fixed.
1-12-5: COMPENSATION:
The compensation to be paid to the County for assessing and collecting taxes
for the City shall be fixed by agreement between the Board of Supervisors of
the County and the Council.
1-12-6: COLLECTION TIME:
The taxes so levied shall be collected at the time and in the manner of County
taxes and paid into the County Treasury. The net amount of the taxes, after
deduction of the County's compensation, shall be paid to the City Treasurer by
warrant of the County Auditor.
1-12-7: TAX SALE; REDEMPTION:
The collection of unpaid taxes levied on property by the City shall be enforced
by the sale of the property in the manner, at the time, and upon the penalties,
of property sold for nonpayment of County taxes. Real property so sold may be
redeemed within the time and upon the terms of property sold for nonpayment of
County taxes.
1-12-8: APPORTIONMENT OF REDEMPTION MONEY:
The County Auditor shall apportion to the City the money paid for redemption in
the proportion which the tax due the City bears the total tax for which the
real property was sold. 1
(1963 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. For Statute authority see Gov. C., Sec. 51500 - 51519.
CHAPTER 13
PURCHASING SYSTEM
SECTION:
1-13-1: Adoption of Purchasing System
1-13-1: ADOPTION OF PURCHASING SYSTEM:
In order to establish efficient procedures for the purchase of supplies and
equipment, to secure for the City supplies and equipment at the lowest possible
cost commensurate with quality needed, to exercise positive financial control
over purchases, to clearly define authority for the purchasing function and to
assure the quality of purchases, a purchasing system shall be adopted by
Resolution by the City Council. (Ord. 712, 1-21-74; amd. Ord. 2023-1, 2-6-2023)
CHAPTER 14
CLAIMS
SECTION:
1-14-1: Presentation of Claims
1-14-2: Consideration of Claims by Council
1-14-3: Payments to be by Warrant
1-14-4: Affidavit Verifying Claim Required
1-14-1: PRESENTATION OF CLAIMS:
Any person having a claim against the City, except for a salary fixed by
ordinance, must present a detailed statement of the claim, verified by his oath
before the Clerk, or other officer authorized to administer oaths, which
statement must be filed with the Clerk at least twenty four (24) hours before
the meeting of the Council at which the claim is to be heard.
1-14-2: CONSIDERATION OF CLAIMS BY COUNCIL:
Claims against the City shall be considered and allowed only at the first
regular meeting in every month.
No demand or claim against the City shall be paid until after it has been
presented to and audited by the Council. (Ord. 10, 4-28-93)
1-14-3: PAYMENTS TO BE BY WARRANT:
All demands when audited and allowed, and all salaries shall be paid by a
warrant on the City Treasury and shall be signed by any two (2) of the
following officers: City Treasurer, City Clerk, Mayor, City Administrator.
(Ord. 837, 3-1-82)
1-14-4: AFFIDAVIT VERIFYING CLAIM REQUIRED:
No demand against the City shall be paid or allowed unless it be properly
itemized, and the claimant affixes thereto an affidavit stating that it is
justly due affiant, has not been paid or allowed, nor theretofore rejected, and
that the last item in the claim accrued within one year next preceding the
presentation thereof; and no money shall be paid by the Treasurer, and no
warrant be drawn upon him, except by order of the Council. (Ord. 55, 1-16-97)
CHAPTER 15
CORPORATE SEAL
SECTION:
1-15-1: Corporate Seal
1-15-2: Facsimile
1-15-1: CORPORATE SEAL:
The common seal of this City shall be: Argent, a bunch of grapes proper,
surrounded by the inscription, "City of Selma; Incorporated March 15, 1893."
(Ord. 55; 1-16-97)
1-15-2: FACSIMILE:
insert scan here
CHAPTER 16
OFFICIAL NEWSPAPER
SECTION:
1-16-1: City Printing; Bids to be Taken
1-16-1: CITY PRINTING; BIDS TO BE TAKEN:
The Clerk shall publish in the newspaper doing the City printing, for two (2)
weeks prior to the last meeting of the Council in each year, a notice for bids
for doing the City printing, according to specifications to be kept on file by
him, during the next succeeding year, to be presented to the Council at their
last regular meeting in December, at which time it will take action concerning
the same. 1
(Ord. 55; 1-16-97)
 
Notes
1 1. For Statute authority see Gov. C., Sec. 37907.
CHAPTER 17
CORPORATE LIMITS
SECTION:
1-17-1: Adoption of Official Map
1-17-1: ADOPTION OF OFFICIAL MAP:
The Map bearing the caption "Map of the City of Selma, Fresno County,
California, compiled from Official Records, John S. Bates, City Engineer, 1923,
Scale: 1 - inch -- 200 - feet," is hereby adopted as the Official Map of the
City for the use of the Council in referring to the matters shown thereon.
A copy of the Map duly signed and attested shall be kept on file in the office
of the Clerk for identification as the Official Map of the City. (Ord. 214; 2-
19-23)
CHAPTER 18
CITY MANAGER
SECTION:
1-18-1: Office Created
1-18-2: Bond
1-18-3: Absence
1-18-4: Compensation
1-18-5: Powers And Duties
1-18-6: Internal Relations
1-18-7: Removal From Employment
1-18-8: Agreement On Employment
1-18-9: Transfer Of Duties And Powers
1-18-1: OFFICE CREATED:
The office of the city manager of the city is hereby created and established.
The city manager shall be appointed by the city council wholly on the basis of
his administrative and executive ability and qualifications and shall hold
office for and during the pleasure of the city council. (Ord. 928, 4-16-1990)
1-18-2: BOND:
If deemed necessary by the city council, the ability to be bonded may be a
condition of employment of a city manager or acting city manager. In the event
that the city determines that a bond is necessary, then the city shall pay any
and all premiums or other expense for such bond. (Ord. 2014-4, 4-21-2014)
1-18-3: ABSENCE:
In the event that the city manager will be absent or otherwise unable to
perform the duties of the city manager, the city manager will give notice to
the city clerk of said absence or inability to perform the duties of the city
manager as soon as practicable. The city manager may designate one or more
qualified city employees to exercise the powers and perform the duties of the
city manager subject to the approval of the city council. (Ord. 2014-4, 4-21-
2014)
1-18-4: COMPENSATION:
The city manager shall receive such compensation as the city council shall
determine and set forth in an agreement by and between the city and the city
manager. (Ord. 2014-4, 4-21-2014)
1-18-5: POWERS AND DUTIES:
The city manager shall be the administrative head of the government of the city
under the direction and control of the city council except as otherwise
provided in this chapter. The city manager shall be responsible for the
efficient administration of all the affairs of the city which are under the
city manager's control. In addition to general powers as administrative head,
and not as a limitation thereof, it shall be the duty of, and the city manager
shall have the powers set forth in the following subsections:
   (A)   Law Enforcement: It shall be the duty of the city manager to enforce
all laws and ordinances of the city and to see that all franchises, contracts,
permits and privileges granted by the city council are faithfully observed.
   (B)   Authority Over Employees: It shall be the duty of the city manager,
and he shall have the authority to control, order and give directions to all
heads of departments, and to subordinate officers and employees of the city,
under his jurisdiction.
   (C)   Power Of Appointment And Removal: It shall be the duty of the city
manager to, and he shall appoint, remove, promote or demote any and all
officers and employees of the city, except those employees appointed by the
mayor or city council, subject to all applicable personnel ordinances, rules
and regulations.
   (D)   Administrative Reorganization Of Offices: It shall be the duty and
responsibility of the city manager to conduct studies and effect such
administrative reorganization of offices, positions or units under his
direction as may be indicated in the interest of efficient, effective and
economical conduct of the city's business.
   (E)   Ordinances: It shall be the duty of the city manager and he shall
recommend to the city council for adoption such measures and ordinances as he
deems necessary.
   (F)   Attendance At Council Meetings: It shall be the duty of the city
manager to attend all meetings of the city council unless at his request he is
excused therefrom by the mayor individually or the city council, except when
his removal is under consideration.
   (G)   Financial Reports: It shall be the duty of the city manager to keep
the city council at all times fully advised as to the financial condition and
needs of the city.
   (H)   Budget: It shall be the duty of the city manager to prepare and submit
the proposed annual budget and the proposed annual salary plan to the city
council for its approval.
   (I)   Expenditure Control And Purchasing: It shall be the duty of the city
manager to see that no expenditures shall be submitted or recommended to the
city council except on approval of the city manager or his authorized
representative. The city manager, or his authorized representative, shall be
responsible for the purchase of all supplies for all the departments or
divisions of the city.
   (J)   Investigations And Complaints: It shall be the duty of the city
manager to make investigations into the affairs of the city and any department
or division thereof, and any contract or the proper performance of any
obligations of the city. Further, it shall be the duty of the city manager to
investigate all complaints in relation to matters concerning the administration
of the city government and in regard to the service maintained by public
utilities in said city.
   (K)   Public Buildings: It shall be the duty of the city manager and he
shall exercise general supervision over all public buildings, public parks, and
all other public property which are under the control and jurisdiction of the
city council.
   (L)   Additional Duties: It shall be the duty of the city manager to perform
such other duties and exercise such other powers as may be delegated to him
from time to time by ordinance or resolution or other official action of the
city council.
   (M)   Director Of Personnel: It shall be the duty of the city manager to
serve as the director of personnel of the city under provisions of title II,
chapter 2 of this code and personnel rules and regulations. (Ord. 928, 4-16-
1990; amd. Ord. 2014-4, 4-21-2014)
1-18-6: INTERNAL RELATIONS:
   (A)   Council Manager Relations: The city council and its members shall deal
with the administrative services of the city only through the city manager,
except for the purpose of inquiry, and neither the city council nor any member
thereof shall give orders or instructions to any subordinates of the city
manager. The city manager shall take his orders and instructions from the city
council only when sitting in a duly convened meeting of the city council and no
individual council member shall give any orders or instructions to the city
manager.
   (B)   Departmental Cooperation: It shall be the duty of all subordinate
officers and employees of the city, including those appointed by the mayor or
city council, the city clerk, and city attorney to assist the city manager in
administering the affairs of the city efficiently, economically and
harmoniously.
   (C)   Attendance At Commission Meetings: The city manager may attend any and
all meetings of the economic development commission, planning commission,
personnel commission, community services commission, traffic/streets commission
and any other commissions, boards or committees created by the city council,
upon his own volition or upon direction of the city council. At such meetings
which the city manager attends, he shall be heard by such commissions, boards
and committees as to all matters upon which he wishes to address the members
thereof and he shall inform said members as to the status of any matter going
considered by the city council, and he shall cooperate to the fullest extent
with the members of all commissions, boards and committees appointed by the
city council. The city manager shall designate and assign staff to support the
commissions, boards and committees appointed by the city council. (Ord. 928, 4-
16-1990; amd. Ord. 2014-4, 4-21-2014)
1-18-7: REMOVAL FROM EMPLOYMENT:
The removal of the city manager shall be affected only by a majority vote of
the whole city council as then constituted, convened in a regular council
meeting. Notwithstanding the foregoing, or anything to the contrary in the
employment agreement with the city manager, the city manager shall not be
removed from office, other than for misconduct in office, during or within a
period of ninety (90) days next succeeding any general municipal election held
in the city at which election a new member of the city council is elected or
when a new city council member is appointed. The purpose of this provision is
to allow any newly elected or appointed member of the city council or a
reorganized city council to observe the actions and ability of the city manager
and performance of the powers and duties of his office. After the expiration of
said ninety (90) day period the remaining provisions of this section as to the
removal of the said city manager shall apply and become effective. (Ord. 2014-
4, 4-21-2014)
1-18-8: AGREEMENT ON EMPLOYMENT:
Nothing in this chapter shall be construed as a limitation on the power or
authority of the city council to enter into an agreement with the city manager
delineating the terms and conditions or additional terms and conditions of
employment not inconsistent with any of the provisions of this chapter. (Ord.
2014-4, 4-21-2014)
1-18-9: TRANSFER OF DUTIES AND POWERS:
All administrative duties and powers heretofore vested in the city council or
other officer or employee of the city by ordinance, resolution or other action
of the city council and all duties and powers vested in the city administrator
by such council action are, by provision of this chapter, vested in the city
manager and shall be deemed to be transferred to the city manager as though all
such ordinances, resolutions or other actions had been specifically amended.
(Ord. 928, 4-16-1990; amd. Ord. 2014-4, 4-21-2014)
CHAPTER 19
RETIREMENT CONTRACT
SECTION:
1-19-1: Amendment To Contract
1-19-2: Additional Amendments To Contract
1-19-1: AMENDMENT TO CONTRACT:
An amendment to the contract between the city council of the city of Selma and
the board of administration, California public employees' retirement system is
hereby authorized, a copy of said amendment being marked "exhibit A", and by
such reference made a part hereof as though herein set out in full and is on
file in the office of the city clerk.
The mayor of the city of Selma is hereby authorized, empowered, and directed to
execute said amendment for and on behalf of said agency. (Ord. 785, 4-17-1978)
1-19-2: ADDITIONAL AMENDMENTS TO CONTRACT:
   (A)   An amendment to the contract between the city council of the city of
Selma and the board of administration, California public employees' retirement
system is hereby authorized, a copy of said amendment being marked "exhibit A",
and by such reference made a part hereof as though herein set out in full and
is on file in the office of the city clerk.
The mayor of the city of Selma is hereby authorized, empowered, and directed to
execute said amendment for and on behalf of said agency. (Ord. 904, 11-7-1988)
   (B)   An amendment to the contract between the city council of the city of
Selma and the board of administration, California public employees' retirement
system is hereby authorized and approved. Said amendment hereby changes the
retirement formula for city of Selma local safety members to two percent (2%)
at fifty (50), a copy of said amendment is on file in the office of the city
clerk of the city of Selma.
The mayor of the city of Selma is hereby authorized, empowered, and directed to
execute said amendment for and on behalf of said agency. (Ord. 2002-6, 6-3-
2002)
CHAPTER 20
ADMINISTRATIVE CITATIONS
SECTION:
1-20-1: Title
1-20-2: Purpose
1-20-3: Authority
1-20-4: Definitions
1-20-5: General
1-20-6: Issuance Of Administrative Citation(s)
1-20-7: Contents Of Citation
1-20-8: Appeal Of Administrative Citation
1-20-9: Appeal Hearing
1-20-10: Fines Assessed
1-20-11: Collection Of Fines
1-20-12: Other Remedies
1-20-13: Administration
1-20-14: Severability
1-20-1: TITLE:
This chapter shall be known as the ADMINISTRATIVE CITATIONS ORDINANCE OF THE
CITY OF SELMA. (Ord. 2013-7, 11-4-2013)
1-20-2: PURPOSE:
This chapter is adopted to protect the health, safety and welfare of the
citizens of the city of Selma and to provide a method to penalize responsible
parties who fail or refuse to comply with certain provisions of this code; to
minimize the expense and delay of enforcement of this code by criminal
citation; and to allow the city to recover costs associated with the
enforcement process, while continuing to give persons who have been issued
citations due process. (Ord. 2013-7, 11-4-2013)
1-20-3: AUTHORITY:
Pursuant to article XI, section 7 of the California Constitution, the city has
the authority to "make and enforce within its limits all local, police,
sanitary, and other ordinances and regulations not in conflict with general
laws". In addition, California Government Code section 36901 provides that the
city may impose fines, penalties, and forfeitures for violations of ordinances.
The city may fix the penalty by fine or imprisonment or both. A fine shall not
exceed one thousand dollars ($1,000.00). Imprisonment shall not exceed six (6)
months. Furthermore, Government Code section 53069.4 authorizes the city to
enact by ordinance an administrative procedure to govern the imposition,
enforcement, collection, and administrative review of administrative fines or
penalties issued for violation of a city ordinance. (Ord. 2013-7, 11-4-2013)
1-20-4: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter the following definitions shall apply:
   AUTOMATIC VIOLATION: A violation defined by any provision in this code as an
automatic violation.
   CITATION OR ADMINISTRATIVE CITATION: A civil citation issued pursuant to
this chapter stating that there has been a violation of one or more provisions
of this code and setting the amount of the administrative penalty to be paid by
the responsible party.
   CITY: The city of Selma.
   CITY MANAGER OR MANAGER: The city manager for the city of Selma or her or
his designated representative.
   DAYS: Calendar days.
   HEARING OFFICER: Any person, persons or entity appointed by the city council
or any city official designated by the city council, by resolution to preside
over the administrative hearings provided for by this chapter.
   OFFICIAL OR ENFORCEMENT OFFICER OR PUBLIC OFFICER: The city manager,
building official, building director, building inspector, public works
director, community development director, police chief, fire chief, health
officer, or designees, or any other individual or body appointed or designated
by the city council or the city manager to enforce violations of this code.
   ORDINANCE OR CITY CODE: Any provision of this code.
   PERSON: Any natural person, firm, association, business, trust,
organization, corporation, partnership, company or any other entity.
   PROPERTY OWNER: The owner of real property.
   RESPONSIBLE PARTY: Any person who is responsible for violating the
provisions of this code as described in this chapter.
   YEAR: Three hundred sixty five (365) days. (Ord. 2013-7, 11-4-2013)
1-20-5: GENERAL:
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this code may be issued an
administrative citation by an enforcement officer as provided for by this
chapter.
   (B)   Each and every day a violation of any provision of this code exists
will constitute a separate and distinct offense.
   (C)   Each section of this code violated on any day shall constitute a
separate and distinct violation.
   (D)   A fine for violations of this code may be assessed by means of an
administrative citation issued by the enforcement officer and shall be payable
directly to the city.
   (E)   The amount of fine for a violation of this code shall be determined by
resolution of the city council of the city of Selma and may be amended, from
time to time, by resolution of the city council of the city of Selma.
   (F)   Administrative fines assessed by means of an administrative citation
shall be collected by the procedures specified in this chapter. (Ord. 2013-7,
11-4-2013)
1-20-6: ISSUANCE OF ADMINISTRATIVE CITATION(S):
   (A)   Determination Of Responsible Party: Upon discovering or observing any
violation of this code, the enforcement officer shall determine the party
responsible for the violation. If a business or other entity is the responsible
party it shall be deemed to be the person who is in immediate control of the
business or site on that day. The enforcement officer may also determine that
the owner(s) or officer(s) of the business or property or entity are the
responsible party.
   (B)   Determination Of An Automatic Violation:
      1.   Any violation defined by this code or the schedule of penalties as
an automatic violation; or
      2.   Violations that create an immediate danger to the public health,
safety, and welfare, as determined by the enforcement officer, and for which
immediate correction is required; or
      3.   Repeat or chronic violations where either formal or informal notice
of the violation, and previous reasonable opportunities to correct, have been
provided; or
      4.   Noncontinuing violations for which it is not possible or practical
to provide prior notice and an opportunity to correct.
   (C)   Issuance Of Notice To Correct:
      1.   Except as provided in subsection (B) of this section, the
enforcement officer may issue a written notice to the responsible party of the
violation. Said notice need not be in any particular form, but shall include:
         (a)   The date of the violation;
         (b)   The address or a description of the location where the violation
occurred;
         (c)   A description of the nature of the violation of this code,
including identifying the code section(s) violated;
         (d)   Identify what action is necessary to correct the violation;
         (e)   Provide the responsible party with not less than ten (10) days
to correct the violation, unless: 1) a lesser time is specified elsewhere in
this code for correcting the violation(s); or 2) the enforcement officer
determines that a lesser time is necessary to protect the public health,
safety, or welfare of the citizens of the city; and
         (f)   An explanation of the consequences of a failure to correct the
violation.
   (D)   Methods Of Issuance Of Notice:
      1.   The enforcement officer may attempt to locate the responsible party
at the location of the violation during regular business hours if a business,
or at any reasonable time if not a business. If the enforcement officer is able
to locate the responsible party, the enforcement officer shall attempt to
obtain the signature of that person on the administrative citation. If that
person refuses to or does not sign the administrative citation, the lack of
signature shall in no way affect the validity of the citation and subsequent
proceedings. If the responsible party refuses to sign the citation, the
enforcement officer may either leave the citation with the responsible party or
mail the citation in accordance with this subsection.
      2.   For property related violations, the enforcement officer may
securely post the citation in a conspicuous place on the property and mail a
copy of the citation to the responsible party by first class mail within five
(5) days of posting to the responsible party's business address, principal
place of business address, residence address, or other address known to the
enforcement officer by reliable information.
      3.   In lieu of personally serving the responsible party, if the
violation is at a business, the enforcement officer may leave a copy of the
citation with a person who is apparently in charge at the person's place of
business and thereafter mailing, by first class postage, a copy of the citation
to the recipient at the address where the copy was left, or by leaving a copy
at the recipient's dwelling or usual place of abode, in the presence of a
competent member of the household over the age of eighteen (18), and thereafter
mailing, by first class mail, to the address where the copy was left.
   (E)   Issuance Of Administrative Citation: If after the expiration of the
time period provided to the responsible party to correct the violation, the
responsible party has not corrected the violation, the enforcement officer may
issue an administrative citation to the responsible party by any method defined
in this section.
   (F)   Additional Violations Of Same Code Section: The notice provided
pursuant to subsection (C) of this section shall be sufficient notice for
subsequent violations of the same code section occurring within one year of the
notice even if the violation occurs at a different location, and the
enforcement officer may proceed directly to issuing an administrative citation
for future violations of the same code section occurring within one year of the
notice even if the violation occurs at a different location. (Ord. 2013-7, 11-
4-2013)
1-20-7: CONTENTS OF CITATION:
The administrative citation shall be on a form approved by the city manager and
should include, where applicable, the following:
   (A)   The name and address of the responsible party;
   (B)   Date and location of the violation(s) and the approximate time the
violation(s) were observed and/or discovered;
   (C)   Section or sections of this code violated and a description of how the
section(s) are violated;
   (D)   A description of the action required to correct the violation(s), if
applicable;
   (E)   A statement requiring the responsible party to immediately correct the
violation(s) and explaining the consequences of a failure to correct the
violation(s);
   (F)   Amount of fine imposed for the violation(s);
   (G)   An explanation of how the fine shall be paid and the time period by
which it shall be paid, and the consequences of failure to pay the fine;
   (H)   The responsible party's right to an appeal;
   (I)   Signature of the enforcement officer; and signature of the responsible
party and/or the address where the citation is served, posted, or mailed. (Ord.
2013-7, 11-4-2013)
1-20-8: APPEAL OF ADMINISTRATIVE CITATION:
   (A)   Any person receiving an administrative citation which carries a
monetary penalty shall within thirty (30) calendar days from the date of
issuance of the citation either pay the fine or file an appeal with the city
manager. Fines may be paid at city hall. Warning citations may not be appealed.
   (B)   A notice of appeal shall be in writing and shall identify the citation
being appealed, specify the basis for the appeal in sufficient detail so that a
hearing officer can understand the grounds for the appeal, an address where
further notices may be delivered to the responsible party by first class mail
and shall be accompanied by an advance deposit of the total penalty amount or a
hardship waiver application form as described in subsection (H) of this
section. The notice of appeal must be received by the city manager at city hall
prior to the expiration of thirty (30) calendar days from the date of the
issuance of the citation.
   (C)   If the deadline to file an appeal or pay a fine falls on a Saturday,
Sunday, or city holiday, the deadline for filing an appeal or paying a fine
shall be extended until the next regular business day.
   (D)   If a hearing officer has not been previously appointed by resolution
of the city council as soon as practicable after receiving a written notice of
appeal, the city clerk shall place on the agenda of the city council the
appointment of a hearing officer. The appointed hearing officer shall forthwith
fix a date, time, and place for the hearing. Written notice of the time and
place for the hearing shall be served at least ten (10) calendar days prior to
the date of the hearing to the party appealing the citation by any one or more
of the following means:
      1.   Personal service; or
      2.   First class mail at the address specified in the notice of appeal,
or if no address is specified, at such other address known to the city manager
by reliable information; or
      3.   If a property related violation, by posting the notice of hearing
conspicuously on or in front of the property on which the violation is located.
   (E)   The failure of any person to receive such notice shall not affect the
validity of any proceedings taken under this chapter. Service by normal first
class delivery mail in the manner described in subsection (D) of this section
shall be effective on the date of mailing.
   (F)   Failure of any person to file an appeal in accordance with the
provisions of this section shall constitute a waiver of that person's rights to
an administrative hearing and determination on the merits of the citation and
the amount of the fine.
   (G)   Failure by the responsible party to attend the administrative hearing
shall constitute a waiver of his or her rights to an administrative hearing.
   (H)   Any person who intends to appeal an administrative citation and is
financially unable to make the advance deposit of the penalty as required in
subsection (B) of this section may request an advance deposit hardship waiver
by doing the following:
      1.   Completing an advance deposit hardship waiver application form
available from the city clerk's office which shall be signed by the applicant
under penalty of perjury;
      2.   The request shall be filed, along with the notice of appeal, with
the city clerk within thirty (30) days of the date of the administrative
citation;
      3.   The city manager may waive all or part of the requirements of an
advance deposit and issue the advance deposit hardship waiver only if the sworn
application together with any supporting documents or materials, demonstrate to
the satisfaction of the city manager the person's actual financial inability to
deposit with the city the full amount of the penalty in advance of the hearing.
The city manager, in determining the responsible party's financial ability or
inability to deposit the full amount of the penalty in advance, may consider
the amount of the penalty imposed, the income of the applicant, the expenses of
the applicant and any other factors that are reasonably related to the
applicant's ability to deposit the full amount of the penalty;
      4.   If the city manager makes a determination to deny all or part of the
advance deposit hardship waiver, then a written determination listing the
reasons for the denial shall be served by first class mail to the address on
the application. The written determination of the city manager shall be final;
      5.   If all or part of the advance deposit hardship waiver is denied by
the city manager, the applicant shall have ten (10) days from the date the
written determination is mailed to make the advance deposit to the city clerk.
Failure to make the advance deposit in the amount determined by the city
manager within ten (10) days from the date the city manager's written
determination was mailed will result in the notice of appeal being considered
untimely filed. If the deadline to make the advance deposit falls on a
Saturday, Sunday, or city holiday, the deadline for making the advance deposit
shall be extended until the next regular business day. (Ord. 2013-7, 11-4-2013)
1-20-9: APPEAL HEARING:
   (A)   The hearing officer shall conduct an informal and orderly proceeding.
The technical rules of evidence shall not apply, except that irrelevant and
unduly repetitious evidence shall be excluded. Evidence on which persons
commonly would rely on in the conduct of their business affairs shall be
accepted. All evidence shall be received only on oath or affirmation.
   (B)   During the hearing, the city manager or designee, and/or enforcement
officer shall present information or testimony relating to the violation and
the appropriate means of correcting the violation. The responsible party(ies),
owner(s), or any other interested person(s) may present testimony or other
evidence concerning the violation and the means and time frame necessary for
correction.
   (C)   Each party shall have the right to:
      1.   Call and examine witnesses on any matter relevant to the issues of
the hearing;
      2.   Introduce documentary and physical evidence relevant to the issues
of the hearing;
      3.   Cross examine opposing witnesses on any matter relevant to the
issues of the hearing;
      4.   Impeach any witness regardless of which party first called the
witness to testify;
      5.   Rebut the evidence;
      6.   Be represented by anyone who is lawfully permitted to do so; and
      7.   Provide an interpreter, at his or her own expense, to translate the
proceeding, if the party is not proficient in the English language.
   (D)   The hearing officer shall direct the order of the proceedings. The
hearing shall be electronically recorded. The parties, at their sole expense,
may have the hearing recorded by a certified shorthand reporter.
   (E)   The hearing officer shall have the authority to grant continuances,
from time to time, for good cause shown, upon request of the city, responsible
party, or the hearing officer's own motion.
   (F)   If the violation is related to real property in the city, the hearing
officer may, upon reasonable notice and consent, inspect the property prior to,
during, or after the administrative hearing. The responsible party shall have
the right to be present at the inspection.
   (G)   The hearing officer may take official notice, either during the
hearing, or after submission of the matter for decision, of any fact which may
be judicially noticed by the courts of this state or of official records,
regulations, rules, and decisions of state and local agencies, boards and
departments and of city and county ordinances. In addition, the hearing officer
may take official notice of matters in city files and of prior proceedings
under this chapter involving the same issues. If applicable, the hearing
officer may also take official notice of any generally accepted technical or
scientific matter within the hearing officer's expertise. The hearing officer
shall inform the parties at the hearing on the record, referred to therein, or
appended thereto all matters to be noticed. Any such party shall be given a
reasonable opportunity on request to refute the officially noticed matters by
evidence or by written or oral presentation of authority.
   (H)   At the conclusion of the hearing, the hearing officer may sustain the
citation, not sustain the citation, may reduce, waive, or conditionally reduce
the fine stated in the citation. The hearing officer may also impose conditions
and deadlines by which to correct the violation or pay any outstanding fine, or
continue the hearing, as necessary.
   (I)   The decision of the hearing officer shall be in writing and issued
within thirty (30) days of the conclusion of the hearing. The decision shall be
served upon the responsible party in the manner as the notice of hearing was
served on the responsible party and is effective upon the date of service. The
decision of the hearing officer regarding any appeal is the final
administrative order and decision. There are no appeals to the city council.
Judicial review may be had only in accordance with the provisions of California
Government Code section 53069.4. The decision shall contain a statement
advising of the right to judicial review, and shall be substantially in the
following form:
The decision of the Hearing Officer is the final decision of the City. You have
the right to seek judicial review of the decision pursuant to and in accordance
with Government Code §53069.4 by filing an appeal with the Superior Court,
County of Fresno. The time to file an appeal is within twenty (20) days after
service of this final administrative decision. These are your only rights to
judicial review. If you fail to file an appeal within the prescribed time, you
may be barred from seeking judicial review.
   (J)   The time to pay a fine following the hearing officer's final
administrative decision is twenty (20) calendar days after service of the
decision unless the hearing officer provides for a longer time. (Ord. 2013-7,
11-4-2013)
1-20-10: FINES ASSESSED:
   (A)   The amounts of the fines to be assessed for city code violations
pursuant to this chapter shall be set forth in a schedule of penalties
established and revised from time to time by resolution of the city council.
The schedule of penalties shall be maintained and made available to the public
by the city clerk.
   (B)   The schedule of penalties established by resolution shall specify
whether a violation is an automatic violation.
   (C)   The schedule of penalties established by resolution shall specify any
increased penalties for repeat violations of the same city code provision.
   (D)   The payment of a fine or fines shall not excuse the failure to correct
the violation nor shall it bar any further enforcement action by the city.
(Ord. 2013-7, 11-4-2013)
1-20-11: COLLECTION OF FINES:
   (A)   All fines assessed shall be payable to the city of Selma.
   (B)   The failure of any person to timely pay a fine assessed by
administrative citation or final administrative decision shall result in an
assessment of an additional late fee to be charged. The amount of a late fee
shall be ten percent (10%) of the total amount of the administrative fine owed.
   (C)   The failure of any person to timely pay a fine assessed by
administrative citation or final administrative decision constitutes a debt
owed to the city. To enforce that debt, the city manager may cause to be filed
a claim with the small claims or other appropriate court.
   (D)   The city manager may also pursue any other legal remedy to collect
such money owed, including, but not limited to, contracting for collection, or
the imposition of an assessment lien as set forth below:
      1.   The city manager may impose a special assessment against the
property that is the subject of an administrative citation, if the
administrative citation has been issued to a property owner for the amount of
the fine, plus late fees, plus an administrative charge established by
resolution of the city council to reimburse the city for costs of imposing the
assessment, the assessment shall be imposed by the following procedures:
         (a)   The city council shall confirm the amount of the assessment at a
regularly scheduled meeting or at a special meeting.
         (b)   The property owner and any holder of the mortgage or deed of
trust of record shall be notified of the meeting to confirm the assessment in
accordance with the notice requirement of this chapter.
         (c)   After confirmation by the city council, the city manager or
designee shall record a notice of lien in the office of the county recorder.
When so made, confirmed, and recorded, the confirmed amount shall constitute a
lien on that property for the amount of the assessment.
         (d)   After confirmation and recordation, a copy may be filed with the
tax collector for the city of Selma. The tax collector shall add the amount(s)
of the respective assessment(s) to the next regular tax bill or bills levied
against the property subject to the lien. Those amounts shall be collected at
the same time and in the same manner as ordinary city taxes are collected, and
shall be subject to the same penalties and procedures under foreclosure and
sale in the cases of a delinquency as provided for with ordinary city taxes.
Or, after recording, the lien may be foreclosed by judicial or other sale in
the matter and means provided by law. The notice of lien for recordation shall
be in the form substantially as follows:
   NOTICE OF LIEN
Pursuant to Title 1 Chapter 20 of the Selma City Code, the City Manager of the
City of Selma did on or about the     day of              , 20   , assess the
cost of administrative fines and penalties on the real property hereinafter
described; and the same has not been paid nor any part thereof and the City of
Selma does hereby claim a lien for such fines and penalties, in the amount of
$        . Said amount shall be a lien upon the real property until it has been
paid in full and discharged of record.
The real property, upon which a lien is claimed, is that certain parcel of land
in the City of Selma, County of Fresno, State of California, more particularly
described as follows:
                                           
                                           
                                           
                                           
Dated this       day of               , 20   
City of Selma
By:                           
                               
[Print Name and Title]
 
   (E)   If the failure by any person to pay a fine assessed by administrative
citation results in the filing of an action in any court of proper
jurisdiction, to collect the fine, the city of Selma shall be entitled to
collect all costs, including reasonable attorney fees, associated with the
filing of such actions.
   (F)   The payment of a fine or fines shall not excuse the failure to correct
the violation nor shall it bar further enforcement action by the city. (Ord.
2013-7, 11-4-2013)
1-20-12: OTHER REMEDIES:
   (A)   Nothing in this chapter precludes the city of Selma from using any
other available method to enforce the provisions of this code. (Ord. 2013-7,
11-4-2013)
1-20-13: ADMINISTRATION:
   (A)   The city manager may adopt any necessary guidelines, policies, or
procedures to aid in the interpretation and enforcement of this chapter. (Ord.
2013-7, 11-4-2013)
1-20-14: SEVERABILITY:
If any section, subsection, sentence, clause, phrase or portion of this chapter
or any part of this code adopted herein by reference is for any reason to be
held invalid or unconstitutional by the decision of any court of competent
jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the validity of the remaining
portions thereof. (Ord. 2013-7, 11-4-2013)
CHAPTER 21
ADMINISTRATIVE AND SUMMARY ABATEMENT
SECTION:
1-21-1: Purpose
1-21-2: Authority
1-21-3: Definitions
1-21-4: Administrative Abatement
1-21-5: Appeal Of Notice To Abate A Public Nuisance
1-21-6: Summary Abatement
1-21-7: Abatement Procedures
1-21-8: Abatement By The City
1-21-9: Graffiti Abatement
1-21-10: Administrative Costs
1-21-11: Abatement Penalty
1-21-12: Recovery Of Costs Of Abatement
1-21-13: Nonexclusive
1-21-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to establish a procedure for the administrative
and summary abatement of public nuisances and city code violations. The
procedures established in these sections are in addition to any other legal
remedy, criminal or civil, established by law which may be pursued to address
violations of this code or applicable laws of the state of California. These
sections govern the abatement of all nuisances and city code violations or laws
of the state of California unless other procedures are established in other
chapters of this code or laws of the state of California and are specifically
stated to apply. (Ord. 2013-8, 11-4-2013)
1-21-2: AUTHORITY:
Pursuant to Government Code section 38771 et seq., any condition caused,
maintained, or permitted to exist in violation of any provision of this code or
applicable state codes which constitute a public nuisance may be abated by the
city of Selma pursuant to the procedures set forth in this chapter. (Ord. 2013-
8, 11-4-2013)
1-21-3: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply:
   CITY: The city of Selma.
   CITY MANAGER OR MANAGER: The city manager for the city of Selma or his or
her designated representative.
   DAYS: Calendar days.
   HEARING OFFICER: A hearing officer appointed pursuant to this chapter.
   OFFICIAL, ENFORCEMENT OFFICIAL OR PUBLIC OFFICIAL: The city manager,
building official, building director, building inspector, community development
director, public works director, police chief, fire chief, health officer or
designees, or any other individual or body appointed or designated by the city
council or the city manager to enforce violations of this code.
   ORDINANCE OR CITY CODE: Any provision of this code.
   PERSON: Any natural person, firm, association, business, trust,
organization, corporation, partnership, company, or any other entity.
   PROPERTY OWNER: The owner of record of the parcel of land on which a
nuisance is maintained based on the last equalized assessment roll or
supplemental roll, whichever is more current.
   RESPONSIBLE PARTY: A person who is responsible for violating the provisions
of this code. (Ord. 2013-8, 11-4-2013)
1-21-4: ADMINISTRATIVE ABATEMENT:
   (A)   Issuance Of Abatement Notice: Whenever the city manager or his or her
designee determines that a public nuisance as defined or declared in any
section of this code or applicable state codes, exists on any public or private
property within the city of Selma, an abatement notice may be issued to the
"property owner" or "responsible party" (as defined by section
1-21-3 of this chapter) to abate the public nuisance.
   (B)   Contents Of Notice: The abatement notice shall be in a form determined
by the city manager and shall include, but is not limited to, the following:
      1.   A description of the property reasonably sufficient to identify the
location of the property including address and/or assessor's parcel number, if
available;
      2.   The city code or state code violation(s) which render the property a
public nuisance;
      3.   The action required to abate the nuisance which may include, but is
not limited to: repairs, removal, demolition, correction, vacation of tenants,
obtaining necessary permits, or other appropriate actions necessary to abate
the nuisance;
      4.   Establish a time frame to abate the nuisance;
      5.   Explain the consequences for failure to comply within the terms of
the notice, including, but not limited to, administrative or summary abatement
or administrative citation;
      6.   State whether as part of the abatement action, a penalty may be
assessed or a nuisance abatement lien recorded on the parcel of land on which
the nuisance is maintained; and
      7.   Identify all applicable hearing and appeal rights.
   (C)   Service Of Abatement Notice: The service of abatement notice shall be
made in the same manner as an administrative citation (subsection 1-20-6(D) of
this title). (Ord. 2013-8, 11-4-2013)
1-21-5: APPEAL OF NOTICE TO ABATE A PUBLIC NUISANCE:
   (A)   Any property owner or responsible party receiving a notice to abate a
public nuisance shall, within ten (10) calendar days from the date of service
of said notice, file an appeal of the notice to abate a public nuisance with
the city manager.
   (B)   A notice of appeal of a notice to abate a public nuisance shall be in
writing on a form approved by the city manager and/or shall identify the notice
to abate a public nuisance being appealed, specify the basis for the appeal in
sufficient detail so that a hearing officer can understand the grounds for the
appeal, and an address where further notices may be delivered to the property
owner or responsible party by first class mail. The notice of appeal of a
notice to abate a public nuisance must be received by the city manager at city
hall prior to the expiration of ten (10) calendar days from the date of service
of the notice to abate a public nuisance.
      1.   The notice of appeal may be mailed or delivered to:
   City Of Selma
   Attn: City Clerk
   1710 Tucker Street
   Selma, CA 93662
   (C)   If the deadline for filing an appeal falls on a Saturday, Sunday or
city holiday, the deadline for filing an appeal shall be extended until the
next regular business day.
   (D)   As soon as practicable after receiving a written notice of appeal of a
notice to abate a public nuisance, the city manager shall appoint a hearing
officer and fix a date, time and place for a hearing. Written notice of the
time and place of the hearing shall be served at least fifteen (15) calendar
days prior to the date of the hearing to the party appealing the notice to
abate a public nuisance by first class mail, postage prepaid, to the address
given in the notice of appeal.
   (E)   The failure of any person to receive such notice shall not affect the
validity of any proceedings taken under this chapter.
   (F)   Failure of any person to file an appeal in accordance with the
provisions of this section shall constitute a waiver of that person's right to
an administrative hearing confirming the existence of a public nuisance.
   (G)   Failure of any person to attend the hearing appealing the notice to
abate a public nuisance shall constitute a waiver of his or her rights to
appeal the existence of a public nuisance.
   (H)   Abatement of the public nuisance shall not proceed until the hearing
officer issues an order, unless the city manager or his or her designee
concludes that an imminent threat to the public's health and safety exists.
   (I)   The hearing of the appeal of the notice to abate a public nuisance
shall be conducted in the same manner as an appeal of an administrative
citation defined in chapter 20 of this title except that:
      1.   At the conclusion of the hearing, the hearing officer may confirm or
deny the existence of a public nuisance, may extend or may impose conditions
and deadlines by which the public nuisance may be abated;
      2.   In any event, the decision of the hearing officer shall be in
writing and issued within ten (10) days of the conclusion of the hearing. The
decision shall be served upon the appealing party by United States mail, first
class, postage prepaid, and addressed to the address provided by the applicant
in the notice of appeal.
   (J)   The decision of the hearing officer regarding an appeal of a notice to
abate a public nuisance is the final administrative order and decision. There
are no appeals to the city council. Judicial review in the superior court of
the state of California may only be had in accordance with the provisions of
Government Code section 53069.4.
   (K)   If the hearing officer issues an order confirming the existence of a
public nuisance, the city may immediately abate the public nuisance pursuant to
the procedures of this code. The hearing officer's decision shall become
effective upon the date of the order. (Ord. 2013-8, 11-4-2013)
1-21-6: SUMMARY ABATEMENT:
   (A)   Authority: Whenever the city manager or enforcement officer determines
that such conditions exist that the life, health, property or safety of the
public or the occupants of any building or site are endangered such that
immediate correction or elimination of such condition exists, the city manager
or enforcement officer may exercise the following powers without prior notice
to the property owner or responsible party:
      1.   Post the premises as unsafe, substandard, or dangerous; or
      2.   Board, fence, or secure the building or site; or
      3.   Order the immediate vacation of any tenants in accordance with
applicable law and prohibit occupancy of any building or site until all repairs
are completed; or
      4.   Make any minimal emergency repairs, as necessary, to eliminate such
conditions which endanger the life, health, property or safety of the public or
occupants; or
      5.   Raze and grade that portion of the building or site to prevent
collapse or remove any hazard to the occupants or public; or
      6.   Take any other action as appropriate under the circumstances.
   (B)   Right Of Way: The city manager or enforcement officer is authorized to
exercise any summary abatement powers listed in this chapter to remove any
items placed or stored on city property, sidewalks, or public rights of way.
   (C)   Procedures:
      1.   The city manager or enforcement officer shall pursue only the
minimum level of correction or abatement, as necessary, to eliminate the
immediacy of the hazard. The costs incurred by the city during the summary
abatement process, including costs associated with relocating tenants, shall be
assessed and recovered against the property owner or responsible party through
the procedures outlined in this chapter.
      2.   The city manager or enforcement officer may also pursue any
administrative or judicial remedy to abate any remaining public nuisance. (Ord.
2013-8, 11-4-2013)
1-21-7: ABATEMENT PROCEDURES:
   (A)   The city may abate the conditions causing a public nuisance when:
      1.   The property owner or responsible party fails to abate the public
nuisance as required by the notice to abate a public nuisance and an appeal has
not been timely filed; or
      2.   A hearing officer has issued an order confirming the existence of a
public nuisance after an appeal, pursuant to this chapter, by the property
owner or responsible party. (Ord. 2013-8, 11-4-2013)
1-21-8: ABATEMENT BY THE CITY:
   (A)   Subject to the procedures set forth in this chapter, the city may
abate a public nuisance as follows:
      1.   The nuisance may be abated by city personnel or by a private
contractor;
      2.   The city personnel or a private contractor may enter upon private
property in a reasonable manner to abate the public nuisance as specified in
the notice to abate a public nuisance or an order issued by the hearing officer
following an appeal of a notice to abate a public nuisance;
      3.   If the property owner or responsible party abates the public
nuisance before the city personnel or private contractor performs the actual
abatement specified in the notice to abate a public nuisance or hearing officer
order, the city manager or his or her designee may, nonetheless, assess all
costs incurred by the city against the property owner or responsible party
pursuant to this chapter;
      4.   Upon completion of the abatement, a report describing the work
performed including an itemized account of the total abatement costs,
including, but not limited to, the actual costs and administrative costs
including staff time to investigate, document, photograph, and conduct the
appeal of the notice to abate a public nuisance. (Ord. 2013-8, 11-4-2013)
1-21-9: GRAFFITI ABATEMENT:
The city may, pursuant to this chapter, summarily abate any nuisance resulting
from the defacement of property of another by graffiti or any other inscribed
material at the expense of a minor or other person creating, causing, or
committing the nuisance and may make the expense of abatement of the nuisance a
lien against property of the minor or other person and a personal obligation of
the minor or other person pursuant to the provisions of Government Code
sections 38772, 38773.2 and/or 38773.6. Further, the parent or guardian having
custody and control of a minor creating, causing, or committing such nuisance
shall be jointly and severally liable for the expense of abatement with the
minor pursuant to the provisions of Government Code section 38772. The city
shall also provide the names and addresses of the parent or guardian having
custody and control of the minor, if known, to the probation officer of the
county of Fresno or other official pursuant to Government Code section 38772.
This section shall be an alternative to and in addition to the abatement
procedures set forth in title VI, chapter 21 of this code. (Ord. 2013-8, 11-4-
2013)
1-21-10: ADMINISTRATIVE COSTS:
Costs of abating a nuisance pursuant to this chapter shall include, but are not
limited to, court costs, recorder's fees, attorney fees, and administrative
costs. (Ord. 2013-8, 11-4-2013)
1-21-11: ABATEMENT PENALTY:
In addition to any other penalty available at law, the city may request,
pursuant to Government Code section 38773.7, that the property owner or
responsible person for a condition abated in accordance with this chapter pay
treble the costs of the abatement for a second or subsequent civil or criminal
judgment within a two (2) year period. (Ord. 2013-8, 11-4-2013)
1-21-12: RECOVERY OF COSTS OF ABATEMENT:
The city manager or designee shall determine whether the cost of abating the
public nuisance shall be recovered as a personal obligation or a special
assessment upon the property.
   (A)   Personal Obligation Of Recovery:
      1.   A demand for payment of recovery costs for the abatement of the
public nuisance shall be served upon the property owner or responsible party by
posting the notice in a conspicuous place on the property and by mailing a copy
of the notice to the property owner. The notice shall include, but is not
limited to, the following:
         (a)   A description of the property sufficient to identify the
property including address or assessor's parcel number, if available;
         (b)   The total amount to be paid associated with the abatement of the
public nuisance at the property along with a copy of the accounting of the
charges; and
         (c)   A demand for payment within thirty (30) days from the date of
service of the notice that if payment is not made within thirty (30) days from
the date of the demand for payment, the payment shall be deemed delinquent and
shall be subject to a penalty assessment of one hundred dollars ($100.00) and
such unpaid amounts including any penalty shall be made a lien upon the
property of the responsible party pursuant to Government Code sections 38773,
38773.1 and 38773.2.
      2.   If the responsible party fails to pay all or part of the costs
associated with the abatement of the public nuisance, the city may then record
a lien on the parcel of land on which the public nuisance was abated pursuant
to Government Code section 38773.1 or in the case of graffiti abatement section
38773.2.
      3.   In the event that the city should initiate any action or proceeding
in accordance with Government Code section 38773.1 or 38773.2, the prevailing
party in such action or proceeding shall be entitled to recover costs of such
action including reasonable attorney fees.
   (B)   Recovery Of Abatement Costs By Special Assessment:
      1.   As an alternative to the recovery of abatement costs as a personal
obligation, the city may recover the cost of abatement of a public nuisance
upon a parcel of land by special assessment against the parcel pursuant to
Government Code section 38773.5 or in the case of graffiti abatement section
38773.6.
      2.   If the city manager or his or her designee determines that the
abatement costs shall be charged against the property, the city manager or his
or her designee shall prepare a notice of special assessment.
      3.   The city manager or his or her designee shall deliver the notice of
special assessment to the county auditor/tax collector pursuant to Government
Code section 38773.5 or 38773.6.
      4.   The notice of special assessment shall be sent to the property owner
pursuant to the notice requirements of Government Code section 38773.5 or
38773.6.
      5.   In the event that the city should initiate any action or proceeding
in accordance with Government Code section 38773.5 or 38773.6, the prevailing
party in such action or proceeding shall be entitled to recover costs of such
action including reasonable attorney fees. (Ord. 2013-8, 11-4-2013)
1-21-13: NONEXCLUSIVE:
Nothing in this chapter is intended to be an exclusive penalty or remedy and
does not prohibit the application of any other penalty or remedy available
under federal, state or local law. (Ord. 2013-8, 11-4-2013)
TITLE II
COMMISSIONS AND BOARDS
CHAPTER 1
PLANNING COMMISSION
SECTION:
2-1-1: Commission Created
2-1-2: Organization; Terms; Compensation
2-1-3: Meetings; Quorum; Records
2-1-4: Powers
2-1-5: Duties
2-1-6: Submission Of Plans To Commission
2-1-7: Expenses Of Commission
2-1-8: Residency
2-1-1: COMMISSION CREATED:
Pursuant to an act of the legislature of the state of California, entitled
"planning act of 1929", page 1805 and acts amendatory thereto, a planning
commission is hereby established for the city, and such commission shall have
all the duties and powers defined in said act and amendments thereto and as may
be prescribed by other state acts or by this code 1
. (Ord. 496, 3-4-1957)
 
Notes
1 1. Gov.C. § 65100 et seq.
2-1-2: ORGANIZATION; TERMS; COMPENSATION:
The planning commission shall consist of seven (7) members to be appointed by
the city council. The planning director shall provide technical assistance and
serve as secretary to the commission; the city attorney, city manager, and city
engineer shall be available for consultation and technical support as needed.
Vacancies for any unexpired term shall be filled by appointment of the city
council for the portion of the unexpired term only. Appointments for a new term
of office shall be for four (4) years and shall begin on July 1 and end on June
30.
The compensation of each member of the planning commission is hereby fixed at
the sum of fifty dollars ($50.00) per meeting for which the commission member
is in attendance. Compensation may be hereafter set by resolution of the city
council.
The two (2) most senior members of the planning commission, who do not serve as
regular members of the personnel commission, shall serve as the two (2)
alternate members of the personnel commission, and shall attend meetings as set
forth in Section
2-2-3 of this code. (Ord. 2009-5, 6-1-2009; amd. Ord. 2019-3, 7-15-2019)
2-1-3: MEETINGS; QUORUM; RECORDS:
   (A)   The planning commission shall meet at least once a month at such times
and places as it may fix by resolution. The commission shall select from its
members a chairman and vice chairman who shall serve for one year or until
their successors are appointed. In case of the absence of the chairman and vice
chairman, the commission shall select a chairman pro tempore.
   (B)   Special meetings may be called at any time by the chairman or by two
(2) members and by written notice served upon each member of the commission at
least twenty four (24) hours before the time specified for the proposed
meeting. (Ord. 91-10, 9-16-1991)
   (C)   Four (4) members of the commission shall constitute a quorum for the
transaction of business. A five (5) member vote of the commission shall
constitute a super majority for those decisions, which by state law requires a
super majority. The commission shall cause a proper record to be kept of its
proceedings. The community development director shall serve as secretary to the
commission. (Ord. 2004-10, 9-7-2004)
2-1-4: POWERS:
The planning commission shall have power, except as otherwise provided by law:
   (A)   To recommend to the proper officers of the city plans for the
regulation of the future growth, development, and beautification of the city in
respect to public and private buildings and works, streets, parks, grounds and
vacant lots.
   (B)   To recommend to the proper officers of the city plans consistent with
the future growth and development of the city in order to secure to the city
and its inhabitants sanitation, proper services of all public utilities and
transportation facilities.
   (C)   To make recommendations to any public authorities or any corporation
or individuals of the city with reference to the location of any proposed
buildings, structures or work.
   (D)   To recommend to the proper officers of the city the approval or
disapproval of maps or plats of subdivision of lands; however, such maps or
plats shall, prior to their final approval or disapproval by the proper
officers, be submitted to the commission for its recommendation thereon.
   (E)   To do and perform any and all other acts and things necessary or
proper to carry out the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 212, 12-4-1922)
2-1-5: DUTIES:
The planning commission shall make or cause to be made, at the direction of the
council, a map of the city or any portion thereof, including adjacent territory
lying outside the corporate limits, showing the streets, highways or other
natural or artificial features therein; also, the location or relocation
proposed for any new public buildings, civic centers, streets, parkways,
boulevards, parks, playgrounds or other public grounds or improvements; also
any proposed widening, extension, closing or relocation of any street, or any
change in the plan of the city that it may deem advisable. The commission may
at its discretion, propose such maps and plans as herein set forth for the
purpose of making recommendations in connection therewith to the proper
officers of the city having charge, superintendence or control of the matters
set forth in the recommendations. It shall make suggestions to the council from
time to time concerning any of the foregoing matters for action by the council
thereon, having due regard for the present conditions and future needs and
growth of the city, including the distribution and relative location of public
buildings, grounds and open spaces devoted to public use; also the planning and
laying out for urban users of private grounds brought into the market from time
to time and the division of the city into zones or districts for the purpose of
conserving and protecting the public health, comfort and convenience. (Ord.
212, 12-4-1922)
2-1-6: SUBMISSION OF PLANS TO COMMISSION:
Any officer or department whose duty it is to prepare ordinances or resolutions
relating to the location of any public building, or location, extension,
widening, enlargement, ornamentation, or parking of any street, alley, parkway,
park, playground or other public ground or to the location of any street, or
other alteration of the city plan of streets and highways, or the location of
any bridge, tunnel, subway, or any surface, underground or elevated railway or
public utility or ordinance relating to housing, building restrictions,
building conditions or zones, shall, prior to the submission to the council,
give notice to the commission of the pendency before the officer or department
of the proceedings, with reasons and need of the foregoing matters. (Ord. 212,
12-4-1922)
2-1-7: EXPENSES OF COMMISSION:
The council may in making the annual tax levy, and as a part thereof, levy and
collect a tax for the purpose of defraying the lawful expenses incurred by the
planning commission, not exceeding two (2) mills on the dollar of assessed
valuation; provided, however, that no expense of any kind shall be incurred by
the commission unless first authorized and approved by the council. (Ord. 212,
12-4-1922)
2-1-8: RESIDENCY:
Members of the commission shall be residents of this city, "provided, however,
that this requirement shall not apply to current terms of members of the
commission". (Ord. 825, 4-20-1981)
CHAPTER 2
PERSONNEL SYSTEM
SECTION:
2-2-1: Personnel System Rules And Regulations
2-2-2: Compensation Plan
2-2-1: PERSONNEL SYSTEM RULES AND REGULATIONS:
The City Council hereby adopts by reference a revised set of rules and
regulations superseding that of resolution 1803 and any amendments, but
provided that all memoranda of understanding approved by minute order of the
City Council since July 2019, remain in effect until superseded by a later
order, budget adoption or resolution. (Ord. 2024-1, 2-5-2024)
2-2-2: COMPENSATION PLAN:
The City Council hereby adopts by reference a complete compensation plan; said
plan being attached to the resolution codified by the City Clerk. (Ord. 2024-1,
2-5-2024)
CHAPTER 3
RECREATION AND COMMUNITY SERVICES COMMISSION
SECTION:
2-3-1: Commission Created
2-3-2: Membership; Organization; Compensation
2-3-3: Meetings
2-3-4: Absence From Meetings (Rep. by Ord. 818, 9-2-1980)
2-3-5: Duties And Responsibilities
2-3-6: Recreational Director (Rep. by Ord. 810, 2-19-1980)
2-3-7: Cooperation Of City Departments Required
2-3-8: Annual Report Of Commission
2-3-9: Recreation Funds
2-3-1: COMMISSION CREATED:
There is hereby created a recreation and community services commission in and
for the city. (Ord. 97-4, 8-4-1997)
2-3-2: MEMBERSHIP; ORGANIZATION; COMPENSATION:
   (A)   Membership: The recreation and community services commission shall be
composed of seven (7) regular members. The seven (7) regular members shall be
comprised of six (6) citizens appointed at large by the city council and one
representative from the Selma Unified School District. (Ord. 97-4, 8-4-1997)
   (B)   Organization: The term of office shall be two (2) years. All terms
will begin on July 1 and end on June 30 two (2) years after appointment. Should
a vacancy occur in the commission for any reason, the vacancy shall be filled
for the unexpired term by an appointment of the council. Whenever in the
discretion of the council, the best interests of the city shall be subscribed
thereby, any appointed member of the commission shall be removed from office by
a four-fifths (4/5) vote of the council. (Ord. 91-5, 7-15-1991; amd. Ord. 2005-
12, 12-5-2005)
   (C)   Compensation: The compensation of each member of the recreation and
community services commission is hereby fixed at the sum of twenty five dollars
($25.00) per meeting for which the commission member is in attendance.
Compensation may be hereafter set by resolution of the city council. (Ord.
2005-12, 12-5-2005)
2-3-3: MEETINGS:
Within ten (10) days after their appointment, the members of the commission
shall meet in regular session and organize, by electing from their members a
secretary, who shall hold office for one year. Thereafter the commission shall
hold such regular or special meetings of its members as it may determine to be
necessary. It shall be the duty of the chairperson to preside over all meetings
of the commission and transmit its recommendations to the council. (Ord. 810,
2-19-1980; amd. Ord. 896, 8-3-1987)
Regular meetings shall be held at such stated times as may be fixed by the
commission by resolution. Special meetings of the commission may be called by
the chairperson or by any three (3) members. (Ord. 91-5, 7-15-1991)
Four (4) members shall constitute a quorum, but a lesser number may adjourn
from time to time to a day certain. (Ord. 97-4, 8-4-1997)
2-3-4: ABSENCE FROM MEETINGS:
(Rep. by Ord. 818, 9-2-1980)
2-3-5: DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES:
   (A)   To conduct its meetings in a businesslike manner. (Ord. 810, 2-19-
1980)
   (B)   Accept as its major responsibility to guide the recreation and
community services department toward fulfilling the recreation needs of the
community. (Ord. 97-4, 8-4-1997)
   (C)   Recommend policies, rules and regulations for the conduct and
operation of park and recreation facilities, including, but not limited to:
Vance Memorial Youth Center, Edgecomb Center, Brentlinger park, Lincoln park,
Ringo park, Sheridan park, Floral/Thompson park and school sites when
applicable. The executive administration of said policies, rules and
regulations, once adopted, to be the responsibility of the recreation and
community services director.
   (D)   Review and make recommendations on the annual fiscal operating budgets
for parks and recreation as prepared by the recreation and community services
director. (Ord. 810, 2-19-1980; amd. Ord. 97-4, 8-4-1997)
   (E)   Visit recreation programs and facilities whenever possible.
   (F)   Support a statement of the philosophy of the commission and
department.
   (G)   Be able to interpret park and recreation programs as required.
   (H)   Hold joint meetings and act in liaison with other agencies, districts,
groups and individuals concerned with social services as required.
   (I)   To review and recommend the recreational element to be considered in
the general plan of the city as provided in Government Code section 65300 et
seq.
   (J)   To perform or consider any additional duties as may be designated by
the council by resolution, ordinance or directive. (Ord. 810, 2-19-1980)
2-3-6: RECREATIONAL DIRECTOR:
(Rep. by Ord. 810, 2-19-1980)
2-3-7: COOPERATION OF CITY DEPARTMENTS REQUIRED:
All officers, departments and department heads of the city shall render
cooperation and all reasonably necessary assistance to the recreation and
community services commission. Neither the commission nor any person connected
with the commission shall incur any financial liability in the name of the
city. (Ord. 370, 6-17-1946; amd. Ord. 97-4, 8-4-1997)
2-3-8: ANNUAL REPORT OF COMMISSION:
The commission shall render annually a full report of its work to the council.
(Ord. 370, 6-17-1946)
2-3-9: RECREATION FUNDS:
The council shall establish a recreation fund, prepare an annual recreation
budget, receive voluntary contributions and appropriate such money as it may
deem necessary for the purpose of carrying on the activities of the commission.
(Ord. 370, 6-17-1946)
CHAPTER 4
EMERGENCY ORGANIZATION DISASTER COUNCIL
SECTION:
2-4-1: Purposes
2-4-2: Definition
2-4-3: Disaster Council Membership
2-4-4: Disaster Council Powers And Duties
2-4-5: Director And Assistant Director Of Emergency Services
2-4-6: Powers And Duties Of The Director And Assistant Director Of Emergency
Services
2-4-7: Emergency Organization
2-4-8: Emergency Plan
2-4-9: Expenditures
2-4-10: Punishment Of Violations
2-4-1: PURPOSES:
The declared purposes of this Chapter are to provide for the preparation and
carrying out of plans for the protection of persons and property within this
City in the event of an emergency; the direction of the emergency organization;
and the coordination of the emergency functions of this City with all other
public agencies, corporations, organizations, and affected private persons.
(Ord. 685, 8-2-1971, eff. 9-1-1971)
2-4-2: DEFINITION:
As used in this Chapter, "emergency" shall mean the actual or threatened
existence of conditions of disaster or of extreme peril to the safety of
persons and property within this City caused by such conditions as air
pollution, fire, flood, storm, epidemic, riot, or earthquake, or other
conditions, including conditions resulting from war or imminent threat of war,
but other than conditions resulting from a labor controversy, which conditions
are or are likely to be beyond the control of the services, personnel,
equipment, and facilities of this City, requiring the combined forces of other
political subdivisions to combat. (Ord. 685, 8-2-1971, eff. 9-1-1971)
2-4-3: DISASTER COUNCIL MEMBERSHIP:
The Selma Disaster Council is hereby created and shall consist of the
following:
   (A)   The Mayor, who shall be chairman.
   (B)   The Director of Emergency Services, who shall be vice chairman.
   (C)   The Assistant Director of Emergency Services.
   (D)   Such Chiefs of Emergency Services as are provided for in a current
emergency plan of this City, adopted pursuant to this Ordinance.
   (E)   Such representatives of civic, business, labor, veterans, professional
or other organizations having an official emergency responsibility, as may be
appointed by the Director with the advice and consent of the City Council.
2-4-4: DISASTER COUNCIL POWERS AND DUTIES:
It shall be the duty of the Selma Disaster Council, and it is hereby empowered,
to develop and recommend for adoption by the City Council, emergency and mutual
aid plans and agreements and such ordinances and resolutions and rules and
regulations as are necessary to implement such plans and agreements. The
Disaster Council shall meet upon call of the chairman, or, in his absence from
the City or inability to call such meeting, upon call of the vice chairman.
(Ord. 685, 8-2-71, eff. 9-1-71)
2-4-5: DIRECTOR AND ASSISTANT DIRECTOR OF EMERGENCY SERVICES:
   (A)   There is hereby created the office of Director of Emergency Services.
The City Administrator shall be the Director of Emergency Services. (Ord. 813,
5-19-80)
   (B)   There is hereby created the office of Assistant Director of Emergency
Services, who shall be appointed by the Director.
2-4-6: POWERS AND DUTIES OF THE DIRECTOR AND ASSISTANT DIRECTOR OF EMERGENCY
SERVICES:
   (A)   The Director is hereby empowered to:
      1.   Request the City Council to proclaim the existence or threatened
existence of a "local emergency" if the City Council is in session, or to issue
such proclamation if the City Council is not in session. Whenever a local
emergency is proclaimed by the Director, The City Council shall take action to
ratify the proclamation within seven (7) days thereafter or the proclamation
shall have no further force or effect.
      2.   Request the Governor to proclaim a "state of emergency" when, in the
opinion of the Director, the locally available resources are inadequate to cope
with the emergency.
      3.   Control and direct the effort of the emergency organization of this
City for the accomplishment of the purposes of this Ordinance.
      4.   Direct cooperation between and coordination of services and staff of
the emergency organization of this City; and resolve questions of authority and
responsibility that may arise between them.
      5.   Represent this City in all dealings with public or private agencies
on matters pertaining to emergencies as defined herein.
      6.   In the event of the proclamation of a "local emergency" as herein
provided, the proclamation of a "state of emergency" by the Governor or the
Director of the State Office of Emergency Services, or the existence of a
"state of war emergency", the Director is hereby empowered:
         (a)   
         (b)   
         (c)   
         (d)   
         (e)   
   (B)   The Director of Emergency Services shall designate the order of
succession to that office, to take effect in the event the Director is
unavailable to attend meetings and otherwise perform his duties during an
emergency. Such order of succession shall be approved by the City Council.
   (C)   The Assistant Director shall, under the supervision of the Director
and with the assistance of Emergency Service chiefs, develop emergency plans
and manage the emergency programs of this City; and shall have such other
powers and duties as may be assigned by the Director.
2-4-7: EMERGENCY ORGANIZATION:
All officers and employees of this City, together with those volunteer forces
enrolled to aid them during an emergency, and all groups, organizations, and
persons who may by agreement or operation of law, including persons impressed
into service under the provisions of Sec. 6 (A) 6. (c) of this Ordinance, be
charged with duties incident to the protection of life and property in this
City during such emergency, shall constitute the emergency organization of the
City of Selma.
2-4-8: EMERGENCY PLAN:
The Selma Disaster Council shall be responsible for the development of the City
of Selma Emergency Plan, which plan shall provide for the effective
mobilization of all of the resources of this City, both public and private, to
meet any condition constituting a local emergency, state of emergency, or state
of war emergency; and shall provide for the organization, powers and duties,
services, and staff of the emergency organization. Such plan shall take effect
upon adoption by resolution of the City Council.
2-4-9: EXPENDITURES:
Any expenditures made in connection with emergency activities, including mutual
aid activities, shall be deemed conclusively to be for the direct protection
and benefit of the inhabitants and property of the City of Selma.
2-4-10: PUNISHMENT OF VIOLATIONS:
It shall be a misdemeanor, punishable by a fine of not to exceed five hundred
dollars ($500.00), or by imprisonment for not to exceed six (6) months, or
both, for any person, during an emergency, to:
   (A)   Wilfully obstruct, hinder, or delay any member of the emergency
organization in the enforcement of any lawful rule or regulation issued
pursuant to this Ordinance, or in the performance of any duty imposed upon him
by virtue of this Ordinance.
   (B)   Do any act forbidden by any lawful rule or regulation issued pursuant
to this Ordinance, if such act is of such a nature as to give or be likely to
give assistance to the enemy or to imperil the lives or property of inhabitants
of this City, or to prevent, hinder, or delay the defense or protection
thereof.
   (C)   Wear, carry, or display, without authority, any means of
identification specified by the emergency agency of the State. 1
(Ord. 685; 8-2-71; Eff. 9-1-71)
 
Notes
1 1. For Statute authority see Gov. C., Sec. 38791.
CHAPTER 5
BOARD OF HEALTH
SECTION:
2-5-1: Board of Health
2-5-1: BOARD OF HEALTH:
Whereas, the City Council of the City of Selma does deem it proper and
expedient to have the County Health Officer enforce and observe the State
rules, regulations, orders, and statutes relating to public health within the
City of Selma.
Now, therefore, be it resolved that the City of Selma does hereby consent that
the County Health Officer shall enforce and observe in the City of Selma, all
of the following:
   (A)   Orders, quarantine regulations, and rules prescribed by the State
Department of the Health and Safety Code of the State of California.
   (B)   Statutes of the State of California, relating to the public health.
Be it further resolved, that the City Clerk shall serve a certified copy of
this resolution upon the Clerk of the Board of Supervisors of the County of
Fresno on or before the 1st day of March, 1959.
And be it further resolved, that this resolution shall constitute a notice of
termination of the existing agreement between the County of Fresno and the City
of Selma, dated, January 16, 1950, wherein the City of Selma contracted with
the County Health Department to perform all functions relating to public health
within the City of Selma. (Res. 444; 2-16-59)
CHAPTER 6
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT COMMISSION
SECTION:
2-6-1: Commission Created
2-6-2: Membership
2-6-3: Terms
2-6-4: Compensation and Staff Liaison
2-6-5: Vacancy
2-6-6: Meetings
2-6-7: Duties and Responsibilities
2-6-8: Application, Removal and Abstention of Appointee Members
2-6-1: COMMISSION CREATED:
An Economic Development Commission in and for the City is hereby created. Said
Commission shall be an advisory, investigative and fact-finding body to the
City Council on all matters relating to economic development as provided in
this Chapter. (Ord. 851, 1-3-83)
2-6-2: MEMBERSHIP:
The Commission shall consist of twelve (12) voting members, consisting of the
President of the Chamber of Commerce, a Chamber representative, and ten (10)
citizens at large appointed by the City Council.
2-6-3: TERMS:
Of the members of the Commission appointed by the City Council the terms shall
be two (2) years each. All terms will begin on July 1 and end on June 30 two
(2) years after appointment. The President of the Chamber of Commerce and the
Chamber representative shall serve a term commensurate with their terms in
those positions. (Ord. 91-7, 7-15-91)
2-6-4: COMPENSATION AND STAFF LIAISON:
The members of said Commission shall serve without compensation. The City
Manager shall serve as staff liaison to said Commission and provide those staff
resources necessary for the Commission to fulfill its advisory policy role to
the City Council. (Ord. 892, 3-2-87; amd. Ord. 91-7, 7-15-91)
2-6-5: VACANCY:
Should a vacancy occur other than by expiration of term, it shall be filled by
appointment for the unexpired term. The terms of the Commission members shall
correspond to their respective official tenures.
2-6-6: MEETINGS:
The Commission shall meet at least quarterly at such time and places as it may
fix by resolution. The Commission shall adopt rules for the conduct of business
and shall keep accurate records of its minutes, resolutions, transactions,
findings and determinations, which records shall be a public record maintained
in the Clerk's office.
2-6-7: DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES:
   (A)   To conduct its meetings in a businesslike manner;
   (B)   Accept as its major responsibility the development of guidelines for
the economic development of the City, in order to fill the requirements of the
community;
   (C)   To establish the following as its goals and objectives:
      1.   Decrease unemployment and underemployment,
      2.   Improve the economic well being of the residents of the City, and
      3.   Enhance the economic base and comparative advantages while
maintaining the environment of the City.
   (D)   Recommend policies and guidelines for the economic development of the
community;
   (E)   Review and make recommendations on the annual fiscal operating budgets
for said Economic Development Commission;
   (F)   Visit and review other commercial and/or economic development
projects, programs and/or facilities whenever possible and feasible;
   (G)   Develop a philosophy for economic development of the community;
   (H)   Develop and interpret economic programs for the community as required;
   (I)   Hold joint meetings and act in a liaison capacity with other agencies,
cities and counties, districts, groups and/or individuals concerned with
economic development of the said community as required.
   (J)   To review and recommend to the Planning Commission factors involved in
the economic development and recommending their adoption into the general plan
and zoning ordinances of the City;
   (K)   To perform or consider any additional duties in the economic
development as may be designated by the City Council by resolution, ordinance
or directive. The Commission should be interested in all matters pertaining to
the economic development of the City and the outlying community;
   (L)   To invite prospective commercial/economic development facilities to
the City.
2-6-8: APPLICATION, REMOVAL AND ABSTENTION OF APPOINTEE MEMBERS:
The rules relating to removal of appointee members and absentation of appointee
members as provided in Sections
2-8-1,
2-8-2 and
2-8-3 of the City Code shall apply to said Economic Development Commission.
(Ord. 851, 1-3-83)
CHAPTER 7
TRAFFIC/STREET COMMISSION
SECTION:
2-7-1: Commission Suspended
2-7-2: Duties Of Commission
2-7-3: Meetings
2-7-4: Terms And Compensation
2-7-1: COMMISSION SUSPENDED:
The existence of a traffic/street commission in the city of Selma is hereby
suspended. The planning commission of the city of Selma shall perform the
duties of the traffic/street commission as set forth in section
2-7-2 of this chapter. The making of this amendment shall not change the terms
or compensation of the planning commission members as set by this code, or by
city council resolution. If and when the city council deems it desirable to do
so, the traffic/street commission will be reestablished to advise the city on
traffic/street related policy issues. The voting membership of the commission,
once activated, shall consist of five (5) citizens at large, with the director
of public works, city engineer and police chief serving as staff liaison to the
commission. (Ord. 2014-9, 10-20-2014)
2-7-2: DUTIES OF COMMISSION:
It shall be the duty of the traffic/street commission to suggest the most
practicable means for coordinating the activities of all officers and agencies
of this city having authority with respect to the administration or enforcement
of traffic and street matters; to stimulate and assist in the preparation and
publication of traffic and street reports; to receive complaints having to do
with traffic and street matters; and to recommend to the legislative body of
the city and to the traffic engineer, the chief of the traffic division and
other city officials ways and means for improving traffic and street conditions
and the administration and enforcement of traffic and street regulations. (Ord.
829, 8-3-1981)
2-7-3: MEETINGS:
The traffic/street commission shall meet once a month at such times and places
as the chairman shall designate. (Ord. 829, 8-3-1981)
2-7-4: TERMS AND COMPENSATION:
The five (5) citizen at large members appointed by the city council shall serve
terms of two (2) years each. All terms will begin on July 1 and end on June 30
two (2) years after appointment. A vacancy shall be filled for the unexpired
term by an appointment of the council. Whenever, in the discretion of the
council, the best interests of the city shall be subscribed thereby, any
appointed member of the commission shall be removed from office by a four-
fifths (4/5) vote of the council.
The compensation of each member of the traffic and street commission is hereby
fixed at the sum of twenty five dollars ($25.00) per meeting for which the
commission member is in attendance. Compensation may be hereafter set by
resolution of the city council.
The member of the traffic and street commission appointed or selected by his or
her colleagues as chairman shall also serve simultaneously for his or her full
term as an ad hoc member of the Selma personnel commission to serve as a member
of that commission, attend its meetings and participate in its proceedings if
and when requested to do so by the chairperson of the Selma personnel
commission. (Ord. 2009-5, 6-1-2009)
CHAPTER 8
COMMISSIONS
SECTION:
2-8-1: Application
2-8-2: Removal of Appointee Members
2-8-3: Absenteeism of Appointee Member
2-8-4: Chairman and Vice Chairman
2-8-1: APPLICATION:
All the rules and regulations prescribed in Chapter 8 of this Title shall apply
to all commissions of the City, heretofore or hereinafter created, except as
hereinafter expressly excepted.
2-8-2: REMOVAL OF APPOINTEE MEMBERS:
Any appointee member of any commission may be removed by any of the following:
   (A)   The appointing official, subject to approval of the legislative body.
   (B)   A four-fifths (4/5) vote of the legislative body.
2-8-3: ABSENTEEISM OF APPOINTEE MEMBER:
If any appointee commission member absents himself or herself from three (3)
regular meetings consecutively from the last regular meeting he or she
attended, the position becomes vacant and shall be filled as any other vacancy.
(Ord. 818, 9-2-80)
2-8-4: CHAIRMAN AND VICE CHAIRMAN:
Each commission or board, whether established by the City Code or other action
of the City Council, shall elect a chairman and vice chairman from among its
own members, each of whom shall serve for one year and until his or her
successor is elected and qualified. The chairman shall preside at all meetings
and exercise all the usual rights, duties and prerogatives of the head of any
similar organization. The vice chairman shall perform the duties of the
chairman in the absence or disability of the chairman. Vacancies created by any
cause shall be filled for the unexpired term by a new election by the
commission. (Ord. 867, 6-1-84)
CHAPTER 9
PIONEER VILLAGE ADVISORY COMMISSION
SECTION:
2-9-1: Commission Created
2-9-2: Membership
2-9-3: Organization
2-9-4: Compensation And City Staff Liaison
2-9-5: Meetings
2-9-6: Duties And Responsibilities
2-9-7: Rules, Regulations And Policies
2-9-8: Annual Report Of The Commission
2-9-9: Pioneer Village Fund
2-9-1: COMMISSION CREATED:
There is hereby created a Pioneer Village advisory commission in and for the
city. (Ord. 2001-9, 11-5-2001)
2-9-2: MEMBERSHIP:
The advisory commission shall be composed of seven (7) regular members. The
members of the advisory commission shall be appointed at large by the city
council. Members of the advisory commission must live, own a business, or pay
real property tax within the area delineated by the boundaries of the Selma
unified school district, as now or hereafter amended. One member of the
advisory commission may, at the discretion of the city council, be appointed
without meeting the aforementioned qualifications. (Ord. 2015-4, 4-20-2015)
2-9-3: ORGANIZATION:
   (A)   Members of the advisory commission shall serve two (2) year terms. Two
(2) year terms shall be renewed by the recreation and community services
commission for their member who continues to represent the commission. At large
members may reapply for successive terms. Should a vacancy occur on the
advisory commission for any reason, the vacancy shall be filled for the
unexpired term by the representative's group (recreation and community services
commission) or in the case of the at large member by recommendation and
approval of the city council. From within its members, the advisory commission
shall elect for a term of one year a chairperson and vice chairperson.
Elections shall be held annually at the scheduled July annual meeting. Prior to
any scheduled meeting, either regular or special session, it is the
responsibility of each member to notify either the chairperson or city staff of
possible nonattendance at the meetings. Upon accrual of two (2) nonexcused
absences within the term of two (2) years, a member may be requested to appear
before the officers of this advisory commission to survey the incumbent's
ability to serve on the advisory commission. If it is found the incumbent is
committed to serve, the matter shall be dismissed. Upon a third nonexcused
absence within a two (2) year term, a member shall be deemed to have resigned.
   (B)   Any member may resign by giving written notice of said member's
resignation to the advisory commission or commission chairperson. The
resignation shall take effect at the time specified in such notice. The
acceptance of such notice shall not be necessary to make it effective.
   (C)   Subsections (A) and (B) of this section are in addition to the
provisions of chapter 8 of this title. Any conflict between provisions shall be
controlled by said chapter 8 of this title. (Ord. 2004-8, 10-4-2004)
2-9-4: COMPENSATION AND CITY STAFF LIAISON:
   (A)   The compensation for each member of the advisory commission is hereby
fixed at the sum of twenty five dollars ($25.00) per meeting for which the
commission member is in attendance. Compensation may be hereafter set by
resolution of the city council. Staff support for the advisory commission will
come from both administration and the recreation and community services
departments, including, but not limited to, a person to serve as recording
secretary (herein "secretary") for the meetings. (Ord. 2005-12, 12-5-2005)
   (B)   The secretary shall give notice of all meetings of the advisory
commission and shall maintain a record of such meetings, including motions
taken, discussion had, and recorded votes. The secretary shall be responsible
for conduct of correspondence and for implementing orders, votes, and
resolutions not otherwise committed to an officer for completion. The secretary
shall further keep a list of the members of the advisory commission. (Ord.
2001-9, 11-5-2001)
2-9-5: MEETINGS:
Regularly scheduled meetings will be determined by the advisory commission.
Special meetings of the commission can be called by the chairperson or a quorum
of the advisory commission. It shall be the duty of the chairperson or vice
chairperson to preside over all meetings. A majority of the members of the
commission positions currently filled and not vacant, but not less than three
(3) members thereof, shall constitute a quorum. The annual meeting for, inter
alia, all organizational purposes shall be held in July of each year at the
time designated by the advisory commission, in the chambers of the city council
of the city of Selma. All meetings are subject to the Ralph M. Brown act for
open public meetings. (Ord. 2008-5, 6-16-2008)
2-9-6: DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES:
   (A)   Assist city in encouraging, promoting and developing use of Pioneer
Village including, but not limited to, Pioneer Village's historical, cultural
and recreational potential.
   (B)   Recommend policies, rules and regulations for the conduct and
operation of the Pioneer Village facilities. The executive administration of
said policies, rules and regulations, once adopted, to be the responsibility of
the recreation and community services director.
   (C)   To perform or consider any additional duties as may be designated by
the council by resolution, ordinance or directives. (Ord. 2004-1, 2-2-2004)
2-9-7: RULES, REGULATIONS AND POLICIES:
Rules, regulations and policies shall be submitted to the council for review
and approval which approval may be by ordinance or resolution. Fees for
facility use shall be similarly approved by council. Rental agreements or other
use agreements for specific purpose and limited duration may be approved by the
recreation and community services director. Limited duration shall be directed
and approved by the director but in no event longer than sixty (60) days
without council approval. (Ord. 2004-1, 2-2-2004)
2-9-8: ANNUAL REPORT OF THE COMMISSION:
The commission shall render annually within ninety (90) days of the end of the
applicable fiscal year a full report of its work to council and any
recommendations as to Pioneer Village and accomplishment of the purposes of the
commissioner. (Ord. 2004-1, 2-2-2004)
2-9-9: PIONEER VILLAGE FUND:
The finance director of the city shall establish a Pioneer Village fund and any
accounts thereunder as necessary to receive voluntary contributions and other
monies generated by the operation and use of Pioneer Village. Receipts and
disbursements and procedures therefor shall be added as directed by the finance
director. The annual budget as developed by the director, with advice and
comment of the commission shall be submitted to the finance director. (Ord.
2004-1, 2-2-2004)
TITLE III
DEPARTMENTS
CHAPTER 1
FIRE DEPARTMENT
SECTION:
3-1-1: Fire Chief; Duties
3-1-2: Building Inspections; Fire Hazards
3-1-3: Fire Department Records
3-1-4: Traffic at Fires
3-1-5: Duty to Render Aid
3-1-6: False Alarms
3-1-1: FIRE CHIEF; DUTIES:
The duties of the Fire Chief shall be as follows:
   (A)   To formulate and recommend to the City Administrator policies and
procedures pertaining to the enforcement of rules and regulations for the
government and operation of the Fire Department; to administer such policies
and procedures when approved by the City Administrator to conduct such
activities for the City.
   (B)   He shall be responsible for development and operation of the fire
prevention and suppression program of the City.
   (C)   He shall operate such equipment as is necessary for the fulfillment of
his function.
   (D)   To perform such other duties as the City Administrator may require.
3-1-2: BUILDING INSPECTIONS; FIRE HAZARDS:
   (A)   The Fire Chief, or any member he may so designate, is hereby
authorized, empowered and required to inspect from time to time all buildings
and premises where accumulations of combustible materials or other hazardous
conditions are liable to exist, and to order such changes or removals as in his
opinion are necessary for safety from fire, principally in the business and
industrial sections. For the purpose of inspection, he is hereby empowered to
enter any and all buildings and premises at any reasonable hour.
   (B)   Also, in the same districts for the purpose of facilitating fire
fighting, building inspections shall be made by the Department officers from
time to time to determine the arrangement of buildings with respect to one
another, to familiarize themselves with the inside of every building and its
contents, to study the best methods of attacking every building in case of fire
and to note all new construction.
   (C)   Records shall be kept of all inspections including notes and sketches.
These records shall be made a permanent part of the records of the Fire
Department.
3-1-3: FIRE DEPARTMENT RECORDS:
The Fire Chief is hereby required to keep and maintain department records of
the following:
   (A)   Fires:
      1.   Date, time and locations;
      2.   Probable origin or cause;
      3.   Method of extinguishment of fires;
      4.   Amount of property loss;
      5.   Valuation of property involved at fires;
      6.   Amount of insurance carried on buildings and contents;
      7.   Amount of insurance paid on buildings and contents;
      8.   Description of buildings and contents damaged or destroyed and name
of owner and occupant;
      9.   Whether alarm originated as telephone or box alarm;
      10.   Losses to exposures.
   (B)   Attendance: Complete records shall be kept of the attendance of every
officer and fireman to fires, drills, schools and meetings.
   (C)   Other Records: Other records deemed necessary by the Fire Chief for
the proper administration of the Department.
3-1-4: TRAFFIC AT FIRES:
It shall be unlawful for any person to drive or operate a motor vehicle during
the time of a fire in the City so as to in any way interfere with the actions,
maneuvers or operations of the fireman or police officers in the conduct of
fire fighting operations.
At the time of any fire alarm, every person then driving a vehicle on the
streets must immediately drive the vehicle to the right hand side of the street
and stop the vehicle until after the fire alarm has stopped.
No vehicle shall be operated, after the same is stopped, on the streets over
which the fire truck will traverse from the fire house to the place of the
fire, until after the fire truck has passed and is a distance of five hundred
feet (500') from the parked vehicle.
It shall be unlawful for any person to drive a vehicle ahead of the fire truck
on any street over which the fire truck will travel to the fire.
All firemen and police officers are exempt from the provisions of this Section.
3-1-5: DUTY TO RENDER AID:
In addition to the performance of their regular duties, it shall be the duty of
all firemen, at all times, and under all circumstances, to go to the aid of all
persons or animals in distress or danger and render them such help and
assistance as lies within their power.
3-1-6: FALSE ALARMS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to make a false alarm of fire by ringing
the fire bell, telephone call, alarm, or by shouting fire. (Ord. 810, 2-19-80)
CHAPTER 2
POLICE DEPARTMENT 1
SECTION:
3-2-1: Department; Control of
3-2-2: Officers; Appointment
3-2-3: Chief of Police; Duties
3-2-4: Police Officers; Duties
3-2-5: Attendance at Public Meetings
3-2-6: Rewards
3-2-7: Witness Fees
3-2-8: Duty to Render Aid
3-2-9: Training of Law Enforcement Officers
3-2-10: Adherence to Post Standards for Police Safety Dispatchers
 
Notes
1 1. For Statute authority see Gov. C., sec. 38630 et seq
3-2-1: DEPARTMENT; CONTROL OF:
The Police Department shall be under the supervision and control of the Chief
of Police, who shall be responsible to the City Administrator.
3-2-2: OFFICERS; APPOINTMENT:
The Chief of Police may:
   (A)   Appoint one or more police officers subject to the approval of the
City Administrator.
   (B)   Appoint additional police officers with the concurrence of the City
Administrator when they deem it necessary for the preservation of public order.
3-2-3: CHIEF OF POLICE; DUTIES:
The duties of the Chief of Police shall be as follows:
   (A)   To formulate and recommend to the City Administrator policies and
procedures pertaining to the enforcement of rules and regulations for the
government and operation of the Police Department; to administer such policies
and procedures when approved by the City Administrator and to conduct such
activities for the City. (Ord. 810, 2-19-80)
   (B)   He shall be responsible for the preservation of the public peace and
order, the prevention and detection of crime, the apprehension of offenders,
the protection of persons and of property, and the enforcement of the law.
   (C)   He shall be responsible for the operation of the juvenile law
enforcement program of the City.
   (D)   He shall operate such equipment as is necessary for the fulfillment of
his function.
   (E)   He shall enforce all traffic regulations and supervise the functions
of the Traffic Division.
   (F)   He shall sell unclaimed property at public auctions as provided for in
Title VI, Chapter 7 of this Code. (1963 Code)
   (G)   To perform such other duties as the City Administrator may require.
(Ord. 810, 2-19-80)
3-2-4: POLICE OFFICERS; DUTIES:
It shall be the duty of the members of the Police Department to see to the
enforcement of all of the laws of the City and all Statutes applicable therein;
and to preserve order and prevent infractions of the law and arrest violators
thereof. (1963 Code)
3-2-5: ATTENDANCE AT PUBLIC MEETINGS:
The City Administrator or Chief of Police shall direct a sufficient number of
policemen to attend and keep order at any public meeting at which a breach of
the peace may occur. (Ord. 810, 2-19-80)
3-2-6: REWARDS:
The Chief of Police, for meritorious service rendered by any member of the
Department in the due discharge of his duty may permit such member to retain
for his own benefit, so far as he may be permitted by law, any reward or
present tendered him therefor, and it shall be cause for dismissal for any
member to receive such reward or present without notice thereof to the Chief of
Police and without his permission.
3-2-7: WITNESS FEES:
Every member of the Department shall appear as witness whenever necessary in a
prosecution for a violation of any Municipal, State or Federal law. No member
shall retain any witness fee for service as witness in any action or suit to
which the City is a party; any fees paid for such service shall be turned over
to the Chief of Police, who shall deposit the same with the Treasurer. (1963
Code)
3-2-8: DUTY TO RENDER AID:
In addition to the performance of their regular duties, it shall be the duty of
all policemen, at all times, and under all circumstances, to go to the aid of
all persons or animals in distress or danger and render them such help and
assistance as lies within their power. (Ord. 270, 10-20-30)
3-2-9: TRAINING OF LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICERS:
The City declares that it desires to qualify to receive aid from the State
under the provisions of chapter 1, title 4, part 4 of the California Penal
Code.
Pursuant to section 13522 of said chapter 1, the City while receiving aid from
the State pursuant to said chapter 1 will adhere to the standards for
recruitment and training established by the California Commission on Peace
Officer Standards and Training. (Ord. 583, 2-17-64)
3-2-10: ADHERENCE TO POST STANDARDS FOR POLICE SAFETY DISPATCHERS:
The City of Selma declares that it desires to continue to qualify for
reimbursements for dispatcher training under the provisions of section 13522,
chapter 1, of title 4, part 4 of the California Penal Code.
Pursuant to section 13510(c), chapter 1, the Selma Police Department will
continue to adhere to standards for recruitment and training of public safety
dispatchers as established by the California Commission of Peace Officer
Standards and Training (POST).
Pursuant to section 13512, chapter 1, the Commission and its representatives
may make such inquiries as deemed appropriate by the Commission to ascertain
that the Selma Police Department's public safety dispatcher personnel adhere to
standards for selection and training established by the Commission on Peace
Officer Standards and Training. (Ord. 912, 3-20-89)
CHAPTER 3
PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENT
SECTION:
3-3-1: Supervision of Department
3-3-1: SUPERVISION OF DEPARTMENT:
The Public Works Department shall be under the direction of the Public Works
Superintendent, who shall be responsible to the City Administrator. The
Superintendent's duties shall be as follows:
   (A)   To formulate and recommend to the City Administrator policies and
procedures for the planning, design, construction, maintenance, repair and
improvement of all public works and places owned by the City, except as
otherwise provided in this Code. To administer such policies and procedures
when approved by the City Administrator and to conduct such activities for the
City.
   (B)   To provide such technical services to other departments as the City
Administrator may direct. (Ord. 810, 2-19-80)
   (C)   He shall proceed as directed by law on all matters requiring his
official action.
   (D)   He shall inspect all construction work done by or for the City and
require compliance with all contracts made in connection therewith. He shall
have subject to his approval all progress payments of construction work done
for the City.
   (E)   He shall act as Superintendent of Streets in all matters required of
that position.
   (F)   He shall prepare or cause to be prepared all official maps of the City
and shall keep and maintain such records as are necessary for the fulfillment
of his function. (1963 Code)
   (G)   (Rep. by Ord. 810, 2-19-80)
   (H)   He shall administer the weed abatement activities of the City. (1963
Code)
   (I)   To recommend to the City Administrator a schedule of fees and rates to
be charged for services performed by the Department.
   (J)   To perform such other duties as may be required by the City
Administrator or the provisions of this Code. (Ord. 810, 2-19-80)
TITLE IV
BUILDING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
BUILDING STANDARDS CODE
SECTION:
4-1-1: Adoption Of The California Building Standards Code And California Code
Of Regulations
4-1-2: Building Official
4-1-3: Appeals Board And Housing Appeals Board
4-1-4: Permits Required
4-1-5: Fees
4-1-1: ADOPTION OF THE CALIFORNIA BUILDING STANDARDS CODE AND CALIFORNIA CODE
OF REGULATIONS:
Pursuant to the provisions of section 50022.2 of the Government Code and
sections 17922, 17958.5, 17958.7 and/or 18941.5 of the Health And Safety Code
of the state of California, the city council of the city of Selma does hereby
adopt by specific reference thereto and incorporation herein by said reference,
the provisions, rules and regulations specified and set forth in the California
building standards code, 2022 Edition, California code of regulations, title 24
and California code of regulations, title 25, division 1, chapter 1, subchapter
1 (state housing law) as the foundation of the city of Selma building
requirements and made part of this chapter as though set forth in full except
as amended herein. These codes shall be designated as title IV, chapter 1,
California building standards and California code of regulations of the city of
Selma. (Ord. 2016-7, 12-5-2016; amd. Ord. 2023-2, 4-17-2023)
4-1-2: BUILDING OFFICIAL:
Except as otherwise provided in this code, all references to the "building
official" in this code or any adopted code therein shall mean and refer to the
community development director of the city, or his or her designee. (Ord. 2016-
7, 12-5-2016)
4-1-3: APPEALS BOARD AND HOUSING APPEALS BOARD:
Except as otherwise provided in this code, all references to the "appeals
board" and "housing appeals board" shall mean and refer to the city planning
commission with respect to those matters as to which the planning commission
has jurisdiction under this code, or to the city council. (Ord. 2016-7, 12-5-
2016)
4-1-4: PERMITS REQUIRED:
Except as specified in this code, no building, structure, or building service
equipment regulated by this code shall be erected, constructed, enlarged,
altered, repaired, moved, improved, removed, converted or demolished unless a
separate, appropriate permit for each building, structure, or building service
equipment has first been obtained from the building official. (Ord. 2016-7, 12-
5-2016)
4-1-5: FEES:
Except as otherwise provided in this code, all fees and charges including
permit fees, inspection fees or other fees related to this title or title VII,
chapter 1 of this code, shall be set forth in the latest resolution of the city
council of the city of Selma establishing a schedule of fees and charges. (Ord.
2016-7, 12-5-2016)
CHAPTER 2
ADMINISTRATIVE CODE
SECTION:
4-2-1: Adoption Of The California Building Standards Administrative Code
4-2-2: Amendments, Additions, Deletions, And Fee Exceptions
4-2-1: ADOPTION OF THE CALIFORNIA BUILDING STANDARDS ADMINISTRATIVE CODE:
Pursuant to the provisions of section 50022.2 of the Government Code and
sections 17922, 17958.5, 17958.7 and/or 18941.5 of the Health And Safety Code
of the state of California, the city council of the city of Selma does hereby
adopt by specific reference thereto and incorporation herein by said reference,
the provisions, rules and regulations specified and set forth in the 2022
Edition of the California building standards administrative code, California
code of regulations, title 24, part 1, copies of which are on file with the
city of Selma for public record and inspection. These are hereby adopted by
said council by reference as the administrative code of the city of Selma and
made a part of this chapter as though set forth in full, subject, however, to
the amendments, additions, deletions and fee exceptions as set forth in this
chapter. This code shall be designated as title IV, chapter 2, titled "the
administrative code of the city of Selma". (Ord. 2016-7, 12-5-2016; amd. Ord.
2023-2, 4-17-2023)
4-2-2: AMENDMENTS, ADDITIONS, DELETIONS, AND FEE EXCEPTIONS:
   (A)   Delete: Sections 4-231 through 4-234; 4-320 through 4-326; 5-104
through 5-108; 7-133 and 7-134; and 16-401 and 16-402 (relating to fees).
Add: Permit Fees: The provisions for permit fees and all matters relating to
permits and fees shall be as set forth in the latest resolution adopted by the
city council establishing a schedule of fees and charges.
Add: Violation; Penalty: It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or
corporation to erect, construct, enlarge, alter, repair, move, improve, remove,
convert, or demolish, equip, use, occupy or maintain any building or structure
in the city or cause or permit the same to be done contrary to or in violation
of any of the provisions of the California building standards administrative
code. The remedies provided by this chapter are cumulative and in addition to
any other remedies available at law or in equity. Violations of any provision
of this chapter are subject to administrative, criminal, civil or other
penalties and enforcement pursuant to title I, chapter 4 of the city code.
(Ord. 2016-7, 12-5-2016)
CHAPTER 3
BUILDING CODE
SECTION:
4-3-1: Adoption Of The California Building Standards Code
4-3-2: Amendments, Additions, Deletions, And Fee Exceptions
4-3-1: ADOPTION OF THE CALIFORNIA BUILDING STANDARDS CODE:
Pursuant to the provisions of section 50022.2 of the Government Code and
sections 17922, 17958.5, 17958.7 and/or 18941.5 of the Health and Safety Code
of the state of California, the city council of the city of Selma does hereby
adopt by specific reference thereto and incorporation herein by said reference,
the provisions, rules and regulations specified and set forth in the California
building standards code, 2022 Edition, California code of regulations, title 24
and California code of regulations, title 25, division 1, chapter 1, subchapter
1 (state housing law) as the foundation of the city of Selma building
requirements and made part of this chapter as though set forth in full except
as amended herein. These codes shall be designated as title IV, chapter 1,
California building standards and California code of regulations of the city of
Selma. (Ord. 2016-7, 12-5-2016; amd. Ord. 2023-2, 4-17-2023)
4-3-2: AMENDMENTS, ADDITIONS, DELETIONS, AND FEE EXCEPTIONS:
   (A)   Delete: Section of division 1 of chapter 1 (Permits, Fees,
Applications And Inspections); section 109 of division 2 of chapter 1 (Fees);
section 113 of division 2 of chapter 1 (Board Of Appeals); appendix A (Employee
Qualifications); appendix B (Board Of Appeals); and appendix C through J,
inclusive.
   Add: Permit Fees: The provision for building permit fee schedule and all
matters relating to permits shall be as set forth in the latest resolution
establishing a schedule of fees and charges.
   (B)   Add: Plan Review Fees For Tract Homes: In lieu of the above, for tract
home construction, two (2) sets of plans may be submitted for each model. Said
plan, when approved, shall be good for a period of one year from the date of
approval. This approval is granted pursuant to codes in effect at the time the
plan is approved. If the codes are amended, a new plan approval will be
required prior to any new building permit being issued. Once a plan has been
approved, and a structural change is to be made, said change must be submitted
with a wet stamp, date and signature of a structural engineer. A separate set
of plans shall be submitted for each building site that corresponds with the
plans on file in the building department. Fees for tract home construction as
discussed above shall be as set forth in the latest resolution establishing a
schedule of fees and charges.
   (C)   Amend: All references to the "building official" in appendix chapter
1, or in this chapter, shall mean and refer to the community development
director of the city, or his designee, and all references to "board of appeals"
in appendix chapter 1 shall mean and refer to the city planning commission with
respect to those matters as to which the planning commission has jurisdiction
under the code; or to the city council.
   (D)   Add: Violation; Penalty: It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or
corporation, to erect, construct, enlarge, alter, repair, move, improve,
remove, convert, or demolish, equip, use, occupy or maintain any building or
structure in the city, or cause or permit the same to be done, contrary to or
in violation of any of the provisions of the California building code. The
remedies provided by this chapter are cumulative and in addition to any other
remedies available at law or in equity. Violations of any provision of this
chapter are subject to administrative, criminal, civil or other penalties and
enforcement pursuant to title I, chapter 4 of the city code.
(Ord. 2016-7, 12-5-2016)
CHAPTER 4
ELECTRICAL CODE
SECTION:
4-4-1: Adoption Of The California Building Electrical Code
4-4-2: Amendments, Additions, Deletions, And Fee Exceptions
4-4-1: ADOPTION OF THE CALIFORNIA BUILDING ELECTRICAL CODE:
Pursuant to the provisions of section 50022.2 of the Government Code and
sections 17922, 17958.5, 17958.7 and/or 18941.5 of the Health And Safety Code
of the state of California, the city council of the city of Selma does hereby
adopt by specific reference thereto and incorporation herein by said reference,
the provisions, rules and regulations specified and set forth in the California
electrical code, 2022 Edition, included in the California building standards
code, title 24, part 3, of the California code of regulations, copies of which
are on file in the community development department, for public record and
inspection. These are hereby adopted by said council by reference as the
electrical code of the city of Selma and made a part of this chapter as though
set forth in full, subject, however, to the amendments, additions, deletions
and fee exceptions set forth in this chapter. This code shall be designated as
title IV, chapter 4, and the electrical code of the city of Selma. (Ord. 2016-
7, 12-5-2016; amd. Ord. 2023-2, 4-17-2023)
4-4-2: AMENDMENTS, ADDITIONS, DELETIONS, AND FEE EXCEPTIONS:
   (A)   Add: Permit Fees: The provision for electrical permit fees and all
matters relating to permits shall be as set forth in the latest resolution
adopted by the city council establishing a schedule of fees and charges.
   (B)   Add: Violation; Penalty: It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or
corporation, to erect, construct, enlarge, alter, repair, move, improve,
remove, convert, or demolish, equip, use, occupy or maintain any building or
structure in the city, or cause or permit the same to be done, contrary to or
in violation of any of the provisions of the California electrical code. The
remedies provided by this chapter are cumulative and in addition to any other
remedies available at law or in equity. Violations of any provision of this
chapter are subject to administrative, criminal, civil or other penalties and
enforcement pursuant to title I, chapter 4 of the city code.
(Ord. 2016-7, 12-5-2016)
CHAPTER 5
MECHANICAL CODE
SECTION:
4-5-1: Adoption Of The California Mechanical Code
4-5-2: Amendments, Additions, Deletions, And Fee Exceptions
4-5-1: ADOPTION OF THE CALIFORNIA MECHANICAL CODE:
Pursuant to the provisions of section 50022.2 of the Government Code and
sections 17922, 17958.5, 17958.7 and/or 18941.5 of the Health And Safety Code
of the state of California, the city council of the city of Selma does hereby
adopt by specific reference thereto and incorporation herein by said reference,
the provisions, rules and regulations specified and set forth in the California
mechanical code, 2022 Edition, included in the California building standards
code, California code of regulations, title 24, part 4, copies of which are on
file in the community development department, for public record and inspection.
These are hereby adopted by said council by reference as the mechanical code of
the city of Selma and made a part of this chapter as though set forth in full,
subject, however, to the amendments, additions, deletions and fee exceptions as
set forth in this chapter. This code shall be designated as title IV, chapter
5, and the mechanical code of the city of Selma. (Ord. 2016-7, 12-5-2016; amd.
Ord. 2023-2, 4-17-2023)
4-5-2: AMENDMENTS, ADDITIONS, DELETIONS, AND FEE EXCEPTIONS:
   (A)   Delete: Section 110.0 of chapter 1 of division II (Board Of Appeals),
sections 115.1, 115.2 and 115.3 (Fees) of chapter 1 of division II.
Add: Permit Fees: The provision for mechanical permit fees and all matters
relating to permits shall be as set forth in the latest resolution approved by
the city council establishing a schedule of fees and charges.
   (B)   Delete: Section 111 of chapter 1, division II, Violations.
Add: Violation; Penalty: It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or
corporation, to erect, construct, enlarge, alter, repair, move, improve,
remove, convert, or demolish, equip, use, occupy or maintain any building or
structure in the city, or cause or permit the same to be done, contrary to or
in violation of any of the provisions of the California mechanical code. The
remedies provided by this chapter are cumulative and in addition to any other
remedies available at law or in equity. Violations of any provision of this
chapter are subject to administrative, criminal, civil or other penalties and
enforcement pursuant to title I, chapter 4 of the city code.
(Ord. 2016-7, 12-5-2016)
CHAPTER 6
HOUSING CODE
SECTION:
4-6-1: Adoption Of The Uniform Housing Code
4-6-2: Amendments, Additions, Deletions, And Fee Exceptions
4-6-1: ADOPTION OF THE UNIFORM HOUSING CODE:
Pursuant to the provisions of section 50022.2 of the Government Code of the
state of California, the city council of the city of Selma does hereby adopt by
specific reference thereto and incorporation herein by said reference, the
provisions, rules and regulations specified and set forth in the 1997 edition
of the uniform housing code, as prepared and published by the International
Conference of Building Officials, 5360 Workman Mill Road, Whittier, CA 90601-
2298, three (3) copies of which are on file in the community development
department, for public record and inspection. These are hereby adopted by said
council by reference as the housing code of the city of Selma, and made a part
of this chapter as though set forth in full, subject however, to the
amendments, additions, deletions and fee exceptions as set forth in this
chapter. This code shall be designated as title IV, chapter 6, the housing code
of the city of Selma. (Ord. 2002-15, 10-7-2002)
4-6-2: AMENDMENTS, ADDITIONS, DELETIONS, AND FEE EXCEPTIONS:
   (A)   DELETE: Section 302, Fees.
   ADD:   PERMIT FEES: The provision for housing permit fees and all matters
relating to permits shall be as set forth in the latest Resolution adopted by
the City Council establishing a schedule of fees and charges.
   (B)   DELETE: Section 204, Violations.
   ADD:   VIOLATION; PENALTY: It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or
corporation, to erect, construct, enlarge, alter, repair, move, improve,
remove, convert, or demolish, equip, use, occupy or maintain any building or
structure in the City, or cause or permit the same to be done, contrary to or
in violation of any of the provisions of the Uniform Housing Code. The Building
Official or his/her authorized representative shall issue a citation for an
infraction, unless a determination has been made by the City Attorney that a
misdemeanor charge is more appropriate. The citation shall be issued to the
person, firm or corporation where the violation exists, certified mail or by
personal delivery. If the property has an occupant other than the owner, a copy
of the citation shall also be posted at the property or delivered to the
occupant. The Citation shall contain the following:
      1.   The location of the subject property by street number and/or
Assessor Parcel Number.
      2.   A description of the violation and the applicable Uniform Housing
Code section.
      3.   A notice to appear before the Court or Superior Court of the County
of Fresno, if applicable by determination of the City Attorney, at a specified
date and time.
(Ord. 2002-15, 10-7-2002)
CHAPTER 7
CODE FOR THE ABATEMENT OF DANGEROUS BUILDINGS
SECTION:
4-7-1: Adoption Of The Uniform Code For The Abatement Of Dangerous Buildings
4-7-2: Amendments, Additions, Deletions, And Fee Exceptions
4-7-1: ADOPTION OF THE UNIFORM CODE FOR THE ABATEMENT OF DANGEROUS BUILDINGS:
Pursuant to the provisions of section 50022.2 of the Government Code of the
state of California, the city council of the city of Selma does hereby adopt by
specific reference thereto and incorporation herein by said reference, the
provisions, rules and regulations specified and set forth in the 1997 edition
of the uniform code for the abatement of dangerous buildings, as prepared and
published by the International Conference of Building Officials, 5360 Workman
Mill Road, Whittier, CA 90601-2298, three (3) copies of which are on file in
the community development department, for public record and inspection. These
are hereby adopted by said council as the abatement of dangerous buildings code
of the city of Selma, and made a part of this chapter as though set forth in
full, subject however, to the amendments, additions, deletions, and fee
exceptions as set forth in this chapter. This code shall be designated as title
IV, chapter 7, the abatement of dangerous buildings code of the city of Selma.
(Ord. 2002-15, 10-7-2002)
4-7-2: AMENDMENTS, ADDITIONS, DELETIONS, AND FEE EXCEPTIONS:
   (A)   DELETE: Section 203, Violations.
   ADD:   VIOLATION; PENALTY: It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or
corporation, to erect, construct, enlarge, alter, repair, move, improve,
remove, convert, or demolish, equip, use, occupy or maintain any building or
structure in the City, or cause or permit the same to be done, contrary to or
in violation of any of the provisions of the Uniform Code for the Abatement of
Dangerous Buildings. The Building Official or his/her authorized representative
shall issue a citation for an infraction, unless a determination has been made
by the City Attorney that a misdemeanor charge is more appropriate. The
citation shall be issued to the person, firm or corporation where the violation
exists, certified mail or by personal delivery. If the property has an occupant
other than the owner, a copy of the citation shall also be posted at the
property or delivered to the occupant. The Citation shall contain the
following:
      1.   The location of the subject property by street number and/or
Assessor Parcel Number.
      2.   A description of the violation and the applicable Uniform Code for
the Abatement of Dangerous Buildings section.
      3.   A notice to appear before the Court or Superior Court of the County
of Fresno, if applicable by determination of the City Attorney, at a specified
date and time.
(Ord. 2002-15, 10-7-2002)
CHAPTER 8
MOVING BUILDINGS
SECTION:
4-8-1: Permit Required; Fee
4-8-2: Application; Deposit
4-8-3: Relocation, Building, Conditional Use Permit, Inspection And Fees
4-8-4: Performance Bond
4-8-5: Demolition Of Buildings
4-8-1: PERMIT REQUIRED; FEE:
It shall be unlawful for any person to move, haul or transport any house or
building upon, across or along any public street or alley in the City without a
permit to be issued by the Clerk upon the order of the Council. The permit
shall specify the streets or alleys over which the building is to be
transported, and the time the same is to be transported. The applicant shall
pay the Clerk five dollars ($5.00) for the issuance of the permit which fee
shall be paid into the Treasury. (Ord. 813, 5-19-1980)
4-8-2: APPLICATION; DEPOSIT:
Any person desiring to obtain a permit as herein required shall apply to the
Council for the same and shall with the application deposit with the Clerk the
sum of twenty five dollars ($25.00), which sum shall be retained by the City as
a bond for the faithful compliance by the applicant with the terms and
conditions of the permit, and the applicant shall agree to repair all damage or
injury caused to any street or alley by reason of the removal of any building,
said sum to be returned to the applicant upon his compliance with the terms of
his application and permit and the repairing of all damage done by the removal
of the building. In the event that the applicant shall fail or refuse to comply
with the terms of the permit or to repair any damage done by the removal of the
building, within the time specified in the permit, the twenty five dollar
($25.00) deposit shall be retained by the City. (Ord. 248, 2-7-1927)
4-8-3: RELOCATION, BUILDING, CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT, INSPECTION AND FEES:
Any building in or outside the limits of the City proposed to be moved to a
location in the City shall first be inspected by the Building Inspector and
approved; and a conditional use permit be issued by the Planning Commission,
and thereafter a permit or conditional permit shall be issued if found to be a
structure that will or can be made to meet this Code.
   (A)   The owner or person proposing to move a building and locate it in the
City shall before moving it, petition the Planning Commission for a conditional
use permit therefor. The Planning Commission shall thereafter set the petition
for public hearing in accordance with the provisions of this Code.
   (B)   The Public Works Department shall prepare a check list which shall be
used in the inspection of building. Said list will show items which must be
repaired, or remodeled, and the estimate cost of such matters. (Ord. 646, 5-6-
1968, eff. 6-6-1968)
   (C)   A building inspection fee of fifty dollars ($50.00) paid in advance
shall be charged for inspections of structures proposed to be moved within or
into the City. Where the Building Inspector must go outside the City to inspect
a building to be moved, additional costs for such inspection must be paid in
advance at the rate of twenty cents ($0.20) per mile travel expense and fifteen
dollars ($15.00) per hour while outside the City limits. This charge is in
addition to the building inspection fee, building permit fee, and performance
requirements. (Ord. 813, 5-19-1980)
   (D)   Double building permit fees shall be charged on any building. (Amount
of inspection and checking a structure to be moved within or into the City is
greater than for the normal inspection of new buildings built on a site which
is considered permanent.) (Ord. 646, 5-6-1968, eff. 6-6-1968)
4-8-4: PERFORMANCE BOND:
Any person wishing to move a building into or within the City shall post a
faithful performance bond equal to the estimated cost of placing a building and
remodeling of same to meet this Code. Bond may be cash, or surety company bond.
   (A)   Building shall be completed and the site left in a clean and neat
condition within six (6) months from the time of issuance of a moving and
building permit. If this requirement is not met, the City shall cause the
subject building to be completed and the performance bond forfeited to pay all
costs. Extension of the six (6) months period may be granted by the Council or
its appointed representative for good cause for a period of not longer than
three (3) months. (Ord. 620, 8-1-1966)
4-8-5: DEMOLITION OF BUILDINGS:
Where buildings are demolished or moved from a location, a permit shall be
required which may be issued by the Building Inspector. In addition to the
demolition permit, a faithful performance cash deposit of one hundred dollars
($100.00) shall be required. The completion of the moving and the clean- up of
the site shall be achieved within ninety (90) days after issuance of moving
permit. The following items listed herein shall be completed in said period:
   (A)   After moving of a building, all trash, old lumber, concrete footings
and/or foundations shall be removed from the site.
   (B)   Holes in the site, such as basements or other excavations, shall be
filled by the use of fill soil (free of deleterious matter) to the natural
grade of the site.
   (C)   Holes or excavations which are intended to be used in the construction
of a building or other use at a future date shall have a safe fence placed
around said excavations at least six feet (6') high to protect persons and/or
animals from falling into the same. Said fence shall be neat appearing and kept
in good condition. If no building is started within one year after the fence is
built, the hole shall be filled as noted in subsection (B) of this Section and
the fence removed.
   (D)   If, after demolition or removal of a building or other structure, the
property is in a rough graded condition, the owner shall be required to grade
said area to its natural grade and to leave it in a neat condition.
   (E)   In case of failure to clean the site, fill holes, grade, or construct
the required fence within said ninety (90) day period, the City shall complete
the job, the cost of which will be applied against the one hundred dollar
($100.00) deposit and any cost exceeding one hundred dollars ($100.00) shall be
a lien on the property until paid. (Ord. 620, 8-1-1966)
CHAPTER 9
SWIMMING POOL, SPA AND HOT TUB CODE
SECTION:
4-9-1: Adoption Of The Uniform Swimming Pool, Spa And Hot Tub Code
4-9-2: Amendments, Additions, Deletions, And Fee Exceptions
4-9-1: ADOPTION OF THE UNIFORM SWIMMING POOL, SPA AND HOT TUB CODE:
Pursuant to the provisions of section 50022.2 of the Government Code of the
state of California, the city council of the city of Selma does hereby adopt by
specific reference thereto and incorporation herein by said reference, the
provisions, rules and regulations specified and set forth in the 1997 edition
of the uniform swimming pool, spa and hot tub code as prepared and adopted at
the 67th Annual Conference, September 1996, and published by the International
Association of Plumbing and Mechanical Officials, 20001 Walnut Drive South,
Walnut, CA 91789-2825 in November 1996, three (3) copies of which are on file
in the community development department, for public record and inspection.
These are hereby adopted by said council by reference as the swimming pool, spa
and hot tub code of the city of Selma, and made a part of this chapter as
though set forth in full, subject however, to the amendments, additions,
deletions, and fee exceptions as set forth in this chapter. This code shall be
designated as title IV, chapter 9, the swimming pool, spa and hot tub code of
the city of Selma. (Ord. 2002-15, 10-7-2002)
4-9-2: AMENDMENTS, ADDITIONS, DELETIONS, AND FEE EXCEPTIONS:
   (A)   DELETE: Section 110, Fees; Table 1-1, Schedule of Fees.
   ADD:   PERMIT FEES: The provision for swimming pool, spa and hot tub permit
fees and all matters relating to permits shall be as set forth in the latest
Resolution approved by the City Council establishing a schedule of fees and
charges.
   (B)   DELETE: Section 106, Violation and Penalties.
   ADD:   VIOLATION; PENALTY: It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or
corporation, to erect, construct, enlarge, alter, repair, move, improve,
remove, convert, or demolish, equip, use, occupy or maintain any building or
structure in the City, or cause or permit the same to be done, contrary to or
in violation of any of the provisions of the Uniform Swimming Pool, Spa and Hot
Tub Code. The Building Official or his/her authorized representative shall
issue a citation for an infraction, unless a determination has been made by the
City Attorney that a misdemeanor charge is more appropriate. The citation shall
be issued to the person, firm or corporation where the violation exists,
certified mail or by personal delivery. If the property has an occupant other
than the owner, a copy of the citation shall also be posted at the property or
delivered to the occupant. The Citation shall contain the following:
      1.   The location of the subject property by street number and/or
Assessor Parcel Number.
      2.   A description of the violation and the applicable Uniform Swimming
Pool, Spa and Hot Tub Code section.
      3.   A notice to appear before the Court or Superior Court of the County
of Fresno, if applicable by determination of the City Attorney, at a specified
date and time.
(Ord. 2002-15, 10-7-2002)
CHAPTER 10
CODE FOR BUILDING CONSERVATION
SECTION:
4-10-1: Adoption Of The California Code For Building Conservation
4-10-1: ADOPTION OF THE CALIFORNIA CODE FOR BUILDING CONSERVATION:
Pursuant to the provisions of section 50022.2 of the Government Code of the
state of California, the city council of the city of Selma does hereby adopt by
specific reference thereto and incorporation herein by said reference, the
provisions, rules and regulations specified and set forth in the 2001 edition
of the California Code for Building Conservation together with appendices, as
copyrighted in 2001 by the California Building Standards Commission, 2525
Natomas Park Drive, Suite 130, Sacramento, CA 95833-2936 as published by the
International Conference of Building Officials, 5360 Workman Mill Road,
Whittier, CA 90601-2298, three (3) copies of which are on file in the community
development department, for public record and inspection. These are hereby
adopted by said council by reference as the building conservation code of the
city of Selma, and made a part of this chapter as though set forth in full,
subject however, to the amendments, additions, deletions, and fee exceptions as
set forth in this chapter. This code shall be designated as title IV, chapter
10, the building conservation code of the city of Selma. (Ord. 2002-15, 10-7-
2002)
CHAPTER 11
PLUMBING CODE
SECTION:
4-11-1: Adoption Of The California Plumbing Code
4-11-2: Amendments, Additions, Deletions, And Fee Exceptions
4-11-1: ADOPTION OF THE CALIFORNIA PLUMBING CODE:
Pursuant to the provisions of section 50022.2 of the Government Code and
sections 17922, 17958.5, 17958.7 and/or 18941.5 of the Health And Safety Code
of the state of California, the city council of the city of Selma does hereby
adopt by specific reference thereto and incorporation herein by said reference,
the provisions, rules and regulations specified and set forth in the 2022
Edition of the California plumbing code with appendices, title 24, part 5 of
the California code of regulations, copies of which are on file with the
community development department, for public record and inspection. These are
hereby adopted by said council by reference as the plumbing code of the city of
Selma and made a part of this chapter as though set forth in full, subject,
however, to the amendments, additions, deletions and fee exceptions as set
forth in this chapter. This code shall be designated as title IV, chapter 11,
and the plumbing code of the city of Selma. (Ord. 2016-7, 12-5-2016; amd. Ord.
2023-2, 4-17-2023)
4-11-2: AMENDMENTS, ADDITIONS, DELETIONS, AND FEE EXCEPTIONS:
   (A)   Delete: Chapter 1, division II, section 103.4 (Fees).
Add: Permit Fees: The provision for plumbing permit fees and all matters
relating to permits shall be as set forth in the latest resolution approved by
the city council establishing a schedule of fees and charges.
   (B)   Add: Violation; Penalty: It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or
corporation, to erect, construct, enlarge, alter, repair, move, improve,
remove, convert, or demolish, equip, use, occupy or maintain any building or
structure in the city, or cause or permit the same to be done, contrary to or
in violation of any of the provisions of the California plumbing code. The
remedies provided by this chapter are cumulative and in addition to any other
remedies available at law or in equity. Violations of any provision of this
chapter are subject to administrative, criminal, civil or other penalties and
enforcement pursuant to title I, chapter 4 of the city code.
(Ord. 2016-7, 12-5-2016)
CHAPTER 12
HISTORICAL BUILDING CODE
SECTION:
4-12-1: Adoption Of The California Historical Building Code
4-12-1: ADOPTION OF THE CALIFORNIA HISTORICAL BUILDING CODE:
Pursuant to the provisions of section 50022.2 of the Government Code and
sections 17922, 17958.5, 17958.7 and/or 18941.5 of the Health And Safety Code
of the state of California, the city council of the city of Selma does hereby
adopt by specific reference thereto and incorporation herein by said reference,
the provisions, rules and regulations specified and set forth in the California
historical building code, 2022 Edition, included in the California building
standards code, part 8 of title 24 of the California code of regulations,
copies of which are on file in the community development department, for public
record and inspection. These are hereby adopted by said council by reference as
the historical building code of the city of Selma and made a part of this
chapter as though set forth in full, subject, however, to amendments,
additions, deletions and fee exceptions as set forth in this chapter. This code
shall be designated as title IV, chapter 12, and the historical building code
of the city of Selma. (Ord. 2016-7, 12-5-2016; amd. Ord. 2023-2, 4-17-2023)
CHAPTER 13
ELEVATOR SAFETY CONSTRUCTION CODE
SECTION:
4-13-1: Adoption Of The California Elevator Safety Construction Code
4-13-1: ADOPTION OF THE CALIFORNIA ELEVATOR SAFETY CONSTRUCTION CODE:
Pursuant to the provisions of section 50022.2 of the Government Code of the
state of California, the city council of the city of Selma does hereby adopt by
specific reference thereto and incorporation herein by said reference, the
provisions, rules and regulations specified and set forth in the 2001 edition
of the California Elevator Safety Construction Code together with appendices,
as copyrighted in 2001 by the California Building Standards Commission, 2525
Natomas Park Drive, Suite 130, Sacramento, CA 95833-2936 as published by the
International Conference of Building Officials, 5360 Workman Mill Road,
Whittier, CA 90601-2298, three (3) copies of which are on file in the community
development department, for public record and inspection. These are hereby
adopted by said council by reference as the building conservation code of the
city of Selma, and made a part of this chapter as though set forth in full,
subject however, to the amendments, additions, deletions, and fee exceptions as
set forth in this chapter. This code shall be designated as title IV, chapter
13, the building conservation code of the city of Selma. (Ord. 2002-15, 10-7-
2002)
CHAPTER 14
REFERENCED STANDARDS CODE
SECTION:
4-14-1: Adoption Of The California Referenced Standards Code
4-14-1: ADOPTION OF THE CALIFORNIA REFERENCED STANDARDS CODE:
Pursuant to the provisions of section 50022.2 of the Government Code and
sections 17922, 17958.5, 17958.7 and/or 18941.5 of the Health And Safety Code
of the state of California, the city council of the city of Selma does hereby
adopt by specific reference thereto and incorporation herein by said reference,
the provisions, rules and regulations specified and set forth in the California
referenced standards code, 2022 Edition, included in the California building
standards code, part 12 of title 24 of the California code of regulations,
copies of which are on file in the community development department, for public
record and inspection. These are hereby adopted by said council by reference as
the referenced standards code of the city of Selma and made a part of this
chapter as though set forth in full, subject, however, to amendments,
additions, deletions and fee exceptions as set forth in this chapter. This code
shall be designated as title IV, chapter 14, and the referenced standards code
of the city of Selma. (Ord. 2016-7, 12-5-2016; amd. Ord. 2023-2, 4-17-2023)
CHAPTER 15
RESIDENTIAL BUILDING CODE
SECTION:
4-15-1: Adoption Of The California Residential Building Code
4-15-1: ADOPTION OF THE CALIFORNIA RESIDENTIAL BUILDING CODE:
Pursuant to the provisions of section 50022.2 of the Government Code and
sections 17922, 17958.5, 17958.7 and/or 18941.5 of the Health And Safety Code
of the state of California, the city council of the city of Selma does hereby
adopt by specific reference thereto and incorporation herein by said reference,
the provisions, rules and regulations specified and set forth in the California
residential building code, 2022 Edition, included in the California building
standards code, part 2.5 of title 24 of the California code of regulations,
copies of which are on file in the community development department, for public
record and inspection. These are hereby adopted by said council by reference as
the residential building code of the city of Selma and made a part of this
chapter as though set forth in full, subject, however, to amendments,
additions, deletions and fee exceptions as set forth in this chapter. This code
shall be designated as title IV, chapter 15, and the residential building code
of the city of Selma. (Ord. 2016-7, 12-5-2016; amd. Ord. 2023-2, 4-17-2023)
CHAPTER 16
EXISTING BUILDING CODE
SECTION:
4-16-1: Adoption Of The California Existing Building Code
4-16-1: ADOPTION OF THE CALIFORNIA EXISTING BUILDING CODE:
Pursuant to the provisions of section 50022.2 of the Government Code and
sections 17922, 17958.5, 17958.7 and/or 18941.5 of the Health And Safety Code
of the state of California, the city council of the city of Selma does hereby
adopt by specific reference thereto and incorporation herein by said reference,
the provisions, rules and regulations specified and set forth in the California
existing building code, 2022 Edition, included in the California building
standards code, part 10 of title 24 of the California code of regulations,
copies of which are on file in the community development department, for public
record and inspection. These are hereby adopted by said council by reference as
the existing building code of the city of Selma and made a part of this chapter
as though set forth in full, subject, however, to amendments, additions,
deletions and fee exceptions as set forth in this chapter. This code shall be
designated as title IV, chapter 16, and the existing building code of the city
of Selma. (Ord. 2016-7, 12-5-2016; amd. Ord. 2023-2, 4-17-2023)
CHAPTER 17
GREEN BUILDING STANDARDS CODE
SECTION:
4-17-1: Adoption Of The California Green Building Standards Code
4-17-1: ADOPTION OF THE CALIFORNIA GREEN BUILDING STANDARDS CODE:
Pursuant to the provisions of section 50022.2 of the Government Code and
sections 17922, 17958.5, 17958.7 and/or 18941.5 of the Health And Safety Code
of the state of California, the city council of the city of Selma does hereby
adopt by specific reference thereto and incorporation herein by said reference,
the provisions, rules and regulations specified and set forth in the California
green building standards code, 2022 Edition, included in the California
building standards code, part 11 of title 24 of the California code of
regulations, copies of which are on file in the community development
department, for public record and inspection. These are hereby adopted by said
council by reference as the green building standards code of the city of Selma
and made a part of this chapter as though set forth in full, subject, however,
to amendments, additions, deletions and fee exceptions as set forth in this
chapter. This code shall be designated as title IV, chapter 17, and the green
building standards code of the city of Selma. (Ord. 2016-7, 12-5-2016; amd.
Ord. 2023-2, 4-17-2023)
TITLE V
BUSINESS REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL LICENSES
SECTION:
5-1-1: Definitions
5-1-2: Revenue Measure
5-1-3: License Required
5-1-4: Branch Establishments
5-1-5: License A Debt
5-1-6: Duty Of Clerk
5-1-7: License Fee; How And When Payable
5-1-8: Applications
5-1-9: First License; Written Statement Required
5-1-10: Renewal Of License; Written Statement
5-1-11: Statements Not Conclusive
5-1-12: Failure To File Statements
5-1-13: Appeal
5-1-14: Duty Of Police Officers
5-1-15: Businesses That Distribute Any Adult Material
5-1-16: License Fee; Home Occupations
5-1-17: License Fee; Flat Amount
5-1-18: License Fee; Junk Collector (Rep. by Ord. 891, 3-2-1987, eff. 7-1-1987)
5-1-19: License Fee; Transient Photographers
5-1-20: License Fee; Handbills
5-1-21: License Fee; Circuses And Carnivals
5-1-22: License Fee; Pool Halls And Bowling Alleys (Rep. by Ord. 891, 3-2-1987,
eff. 7-1-1987)
5-1-23: Use Of Vehicles; No Fixed Place Of Business; Wheel Fees
5-1-24: Theaters, Moving Pictures (Rep. by Ord. 891, 3-2-1987, eff. 7-1-1987)
5-1-25: Fortunetelling (Rep. by Ord. 799, 4-16-1979)
5-1-26: Constitutional Or Statutory Exemptions
5-1-27: Charitable Organizations
5-1-28: Disabled Veterans
5-1-29: Interstate Commerce
5-1-30: Public Utilities Under Franchise
5-1-31: Claim Of Exemption
5-1-32: Penalties
5-1-33: Admission Fees, Fraudulently Avoiding Payment Of
5-1-34: License Fee; Gross Receipts
5-1-35: Exclusions
5-1-36: Word Substitution
5-1-37: Swap Meets
5-1-1: DEFINITIONS:
Whenever the following words or terms are used in this chapter they shall have
the meanings herein ascribed to them:
   BUSINESS: Professions, trades and occupations and every kind of calling
carried on for profit or livelihood.
   CONTRACTOR: Includes the definition as provided in sections 7026, 7026.1,
7026.2 and 7026.3 of the Business and Professions Code of the state of
California.
   FIXED PLACE OF BUSINESS: The premises in the city occupied for the
particular purpose of conducting the business thereat, and regularly kept open
for the purpose with a competent person in attendance for the purpose of
attending to such business.
   GROSS RECEIPTS: The total amount of the sale price of all sales and the
total amount charged or received for the performance of any act, service or
employment of whatever nature it may be, for which a charge is made or credit
allowed, whether or not such service, act or employment is done as a part of or
in connection with the sale of goods, wares or merchandise. Included in the
term "gross receipts" shall be all other receipts, cash, credits and property
of any kind or nature except as hereinafter excluded, and any amount for which
credit is allowed by the seller to the purchaser without any deduction therefor
on account of the cost of the property sold, the cost of the materials used,
labor or service costs, interest paid or payable, or losses or other expenses
whatsoever. Excluded from the term "gross receipts" shall be cash discounts
allowed and taken on sales, any fees required by law to be included in or added
to the purchase price and collected from the consumer or purchaser; and such
part of the sale price of property returned by purchasers upon rescission of
the contract of sale as is refunded either in cash or by credit.
   JOBBING BUSINESS: Every business conducted solely for the purpose of selling
goods, wares, or merchandise in job lots to wholesale merchants for resale at
wholesale to the trade by the wholesale merchants.
   MANUFACTURER: One engaged in making materials, raw or partly finished, into
wares suitable for use.
   PERSON: Every individual, corporation, partnership, or any other legally
recognized form of doing business.
   QUARTER: A period of three (3) calendar months. The quarters begin on July
1, October 1, January 1, and April 1 of each year. The quarter shall include
fractions thereof.
   RETAIL BUSINESS: Every business conducted for the purpose of selling, or
offering to sell, any goods, wares, or merchandise, other than as a part of a
"wholesale business" and "jobbing business" as hereinbefore defined.
   VEHICLE: Every device in, upon, or by which any person or property is or may
be transported or drawn upon a public street or highway, except devices moved
by human power or used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks.
   WHOLESALE BUSINESS: Every business conducted solely for the purpose of
selling goods, wares, or merchandise in wholesale lots to retailers for resale
at retail to the trade by the retailers. (Ord. 474, 11-15-1954; amd. Ord. 891,
3-2-1987, eff. 7-1-1987; Ord. 2002-16, 10-7-2002)
5-1-2: REVENUE MEASURE:
This Chapter is enacted primarily to raise revenue for Municipal purposes and
is not intended for regulation.
Any person required to pay a license tax for transacting and carrying on any
business under this Chapter shall be relieved from the payment of any license
tax for the privilege of doing such business which has been required under any
other provision of this Code, but shall remain subject to the regulatory
requirements of such other provision. This Section shall not apply to
inspection or permit fees.
5-1-3: LICENSE REQUIRED:
There are hereby imposed upon the businesses specified in this Chapter license
taxes in the amounts hereafter prescribed, and it shall be unlawful for any
person to transact and carry on any business in the City, without first having
procured a license from the City so to do or without complying with any and all
applicable provisions of this Chapter, and each day such business is carried on
without a license shall constitute a separate violation of this Chapter. (Ord.
474, 11-15-54)
   (A)   No license shall be required for selling at public sale, any goods
belonging to the United States or State or for the selling of property by legal
process, or for the bona fide selling of household goods at the domicile of the
owner thereof. (Ord. 824, 4-6-81)
5-1-4: BRANCH ESTABLISHMENTS:
A separate license must be obtained for each branch establishment or location
of the business transacted and carried on and each license shall authorize the
licensee to transact and carry on only the business licensed thereby at the
location and in the manner designated in the license; provided, that warehouses
and distributing plants used in connection with and incidental to a business
licensed under the provisions of this Chapter shall not be deemed to be
separate places of business or branch establishment; provided further, that
when all of the businesses conducted by one person at one location are subject
to taxation on the basis of gross receipts, only one license need be obtained,
and the tax shall be based on the entire gross receipts of the business.
In the event that more than one business subject to flat amount of taxation or
more than one business subject to both flat amount and gross receipts taxation
are carried on at the same location by one person, the license tax to be paid
shall be the amount applicable to the highest licensed business plus one-half
(1/2) of each additional license of the other businesses conducted at the
location.
In the event a person conducts a business subject to a license tax specified in
Sections
5-1-16 or
5-1-17 plus a retail business subject to gross receipts or flat amount taxation
under any other section of this Chapter, the businesses shall be licensed as
provided in Sections
5-1-16 or
5-1-17.
5-1-5: LICENSE A DEBT:
The amount of any license imposed by this Chapter shall be deemed a debt to the
City, and any person carrying on any business mentioned in this Chapter without
having a license from the City so to do, shall be liable to an action in the
name of the City in any court of competent jurisdiction, for the amount of
license by this Chapter imposed on the business, together with all penalties
then due thereon in any such action.
5-1-6: DUTY OF CLERK:
It shall be the Clerk's duty to prepare and issue a license under this Chapter
for every person liable to pay a license hereunder, and to state in each
license the amount thereof, the period of time covered thereby, the name of the
person to whom issued, the business licensed, and the location or place where
the business is to be carried on.
It shall further be the duty and responsibility of the clerk to see that all
new businesses are licensed and that all changes in location and status are
recorded.
No license granted or issued under any provisions of this Chapter shall be in
any manner transferred or assigned or shall authorize any person other than is
therein mentioned or named to do business without the approval of the Council
in any classification set forth in Section
5-1-8 of this Chapter or by the Clerk in any other case. (Ord. 474, 11-15-54)
The Clerk shall make a charge of five dollars ($5.00) for each duplicate
license issued to replace any license issued under the provisions of this
Chapter which has been lost or destroyed. In no case shall any mistake made by
the Clerk in stating the amount of the license prevent or prejudice the
collection by the City of what shall be actually due from anyone carrying on a
business subject to a license under this Chapter. (Ord. 891, 3-2-87, eff. 7-1-
87)
5-1-7: LICENSE FEE; HOW AND WHEN PAYABLE:
All license fees shall be paid in advance at the office of the Clerk. Any
person carrying on, either as principal or agent, any business in the City not
herein specifically set forth shall pay the amount of the license fee
prescribed herein provided for the business nearest corresponding to the nature
of the business sought to be licensed. (Ord. 474, 11-15-54)
The annual license fee in this Chapter provided shall be due and payable on the
anniversary date of the issuance of the license. (Ord. 891, 3-2-87, eff. 7-1-
87)
5-1-8: APPLICATIONS:
   (A)   Every person required to have a license under the provisions of this
Chapter shall make application for the same to the Clerk, and upon payment of
the prescribed fee, the Clerk shall issue to the person a license, unless the
license falls within a classification set forth in subsection (C) below, in
which event approval of the Council shall first be obtained.
   (B)   The application shall furnish all information required to enable the
Clerk to properly classify the business of the applicant and determine the
proper license to be paid by the applicant. Each applicant for a license must
properly fill in the application, sign the same and certify, under penalties of
perjury, that the contents thereof are true and correct; or sign and swear to
the same before the Clerk, Deputy Clerk, or some other person authorized to
administer oaths. The Clerk and his deputies and assistants are authorized to
administer oaths in all matters pertaining to the duties of their respective
offices. The completed applications must be submitted to the Clerk, who shall
compute the proper amount of the license and on payment of the amount shall
issue the appropriate license.
   (C)   No license shall be issued for any laundry, hotel, boarding house,
lodging house, rooming house, restaurant, bakery, shooting gallery, billiard
room, pool room, amusement parlor, garage, creamery, auctioneer, auction room,
boxing contest, message or parcel service, carnival company, rope or wire
dancer, merry-go- round, nor for any theatrical entertainment save carrying on
and conducting a permanently established theater or motion picture show, except
on the order of the Council, and whenever any person desires to open or carry
on any business or do any thing specified in subsection (C) of this Section,
the person shall petition the Council to order a license issued therefor. The
petition shall be made through the Clerk and shall set forth the name of the
applicant, the character of the business to be carried on or thing to be done,
and the location of the premises where the business is to be conducted or thing
done. The Council shall not order the license for any business in this Section
specified, to issue at the meeting on which the petition therefor is presented
to it nor within six (6) days thereafter. Where any business, in this Section
specified, for any reason is or may become dangerous to or affect the public
health, peace, safety or morals, or be or become dangerous to surrounding or
adjacent property, the Council shall refuse to grant the license.
Should the Council at any time determine that the premises wherein any business
prescribed in this Section is conducted are not in good sanitary condition or
dangerous to adjacent property, or do injure or affect the public health,
peace, safety or morals, it may also revoke any license theretofore issued, by
written notice to the licensed person.
5-1-9: FIRST LICENSE; WRITTEN STATEMENT REQUIRED:
   (A)   Upon a person making application for the first license to be issued
for a newly established business, in all cases where the amount of license tax
to be paid is based upon gross receipts or is graduated according to some other
sliding scale, the person shall furnish to the Clerk, for his guidance in
ascertaining the amount of license tax to be paid by the applicant, a written
statement upon a form provided by the Clerk, signed by the applicant and sworn
to before the Clerk, his deputies or assistants or any person authorized to
administer oaths, setting forth such information as may be therein required and
as may be necessary properly to determine the amount of the license tax to be
paid by the applicant.
   (B)   If the amount of the license tax to be paid by the applicant is based
upon the amount of his gross receipts, he shall estimate the amount of his
gross receipts for the period to be covered by the license for the purpose of
determining the license bracket which will be applicable to him for the period
to be covered by the license issued. The estimate, if assented by the Clerk as
reasonable, shall be used in determining the amount of license tax to be paid
by the applicant; provided, however, that the amount of the license tax so
determined shall be tentative only and such person shall, within fifteen (15)
days after the expiration of the period for which the license was issued,
furnish the Clerk with a certified or sworn statement upon a form furnished by
the Clerk, containing the date required to show the licensing bracket properly
applicable to the person during the period of the license and the license tax
for such period shall be finally ascertained and paid in the manner provided by
this Chapter, after deducting from the payment found to be due, the amount paid
at the time the first license was issued. The Clerk shall not issue to any such
person another license for the same or any other business until the person
shall have furnished to him the written statement and paid the license tax as
herein required.
   (C)   If the amount of the license tax to be paid by the applicant is
graduated according to some sliding scale other than gross receipts, the
applicant shall furnish to the Clerk for his guidance in ascertaining the
amount of license tax to be paid by applicant's certified or sworn statement
upon a form provided by the Clerk, setting forth such information as may be
therein required and as may be necessary properly to determine the amount of
license tax to be paid by the applicant and which statement shall show, among
other things, the number of vehicles or tonnage thereof, the number of seats,
chairs, rooms, tables, or other units used or involved in the person's business
as of the time of filing the application. The person shall thereupon pay the
required license fee in advance, computed in accordance with the information
contained in the statements. (Ord. 474, 11-15-1954)
   (D)   Method Of Prorating: Except as otherwise provided herein, no proration
of any license fee due hereunder shall be made for any portion of the period
for which a license is payable. (Ord. 891, 3-2-1987, eff. 7-1-1987)
5-1-10: RENEWAL OF LICENSE; WRITTEN STATEMENT:
   (A)   In all cases, where the amount of license fee to be paid is based upon
gross receipts or is graduated according to some other sliding scale, the
applicant for renewal of a license shall submit to the Clerk for his guidance
in ascertaining the amount of the license fee to be paid by the applicant a
written statement upon a form to be provided by the Clerk, certified under
penalties of perjury to be true and correct, or, sworn to before the Clerk, his
deputies or assistants, or by any person authorized to administer oaths, or
certified under the penalties of perjury to be true and correct, setting forth
such information concerning the applicant's business during the preceding
license period as may be required by the Clerk to enable him to ascertain the
amount of license fee to be paid by the applicant pursuant to the provisions of
this Chapter, and such statement shall be used as the basis for determining the
amount of license fee to be paid by the applicant for the renewal period. (Ord.
474, 11-15-1954)
   (B)   Where the license to be paid under any section hereof is based on
gross receipts, only one such statement need be filed during any fiscal year,
unless the Clerk requires a corrected statement to be filed, which statement
shall be filed at the time the first license is procured, as provided in
Section
5-1-9 of this Chapter, and thereafter on or before the fifteenth day of the
first month of the annual period covered. (Ord. 891, 3-2-1987, eff. 7-1-1987)
5-1-11: STATEMENTS NOT CONCLUSIVE:
No statement shall be conclusive as to the matters set forth therein, nor shall
the filing of the same preclude the City from collecting by appropriate action
such sum as is actually due and payable hereunder. The statement and each of
the several items therein contained shall be subject to audit and verification
by the Clerk, his deputies, or authorized employees of the City, who are hereby
authorized to examine, audit, and inspect such books and records of any
licensee or applicant for license as may be necessary, in their judgment, to
verify or ascertain the amount of license fee due. (Ord. 474, 11-15-1954)
5-1-12: FAILURE TO FILE STATEMENTS:
If any person fails to file any required statement within the time prescribed,
or if after demand therefor made by the Clerk may determine the amount of
license tax due from such person by means of such information as he may be able
to obtain.
In case such a determination is made, the Clerk shall give a notice of the
amount so assessed by serving it personally or by depositing it in the United
States Post Office at Selma, postage prepaid, addressed to the person so
assessed at his last known address. The person may, within ten (10) days after
the mailing or servicing of the notice, make application in writing to the
Clerk for a hearing on the amount of the license tax. The Clerk must cause the
matter to be set for hearing within fifteen (15) days before the Council
regardless of whether or not the application is made. The Clerk shall give at
least ten (10) days' notice to the person of the time and place of hearing in
the manner prescribed herein for the service of notice of assessment. The
Council shall consider all evidence produced, and written notice of its
findings thereon, which findings shall be final, shall be served upon the
applicant in the manner prescribed herein for the service of notice of
assessment. (Ord. 474, 11-15-1954)
5-1-13: APPEAL:
Any person aggrieved by any decision of an administrative officer or agency
with respect to the issuance or refusal to issue a license may appeal to the
Council by filing a notice of appeal with the Clerk of the Council. The Council
shall thereupon fix a time and place for hearing such appeal. The Clerk of the
Council shall give notice to the person of the time and place of hearing by
serving it personally or by depositing it in the United States Post Office at
Selma, postage prepaid, addressed to the person at his last known address.
(Ord. 474, 11-15-1954)
5-1-14: DUTY OF POLICE OFFICERS:
All police officers are hereby appointed inspectors of licenses and in addition
to their several duties as police officers, are hereby required to examine all
places of business and persons in their respective beats liable to pay a
license, and to see that such licenses are taken out, and shall have and
exercise the power:
   (A)   To make arrests for the violation of any of the provisions of this
Chapter.
   (B)   To enter free of charge, at any time, any place of business for which
a license is required by this Chapter and to demand the exhibition of the
license for the current term by any person engaged or employed in the
transaction of such business and if the person shall then and there fail to
exhibit the license, the person shall be liable to the general penalty provided
for a violation of this Code. (Ord. 474, 11-15-1954)
5-1-15: BUSINESSES THAT DISTRIBUTE ANY ADULT MATERIAL:
Every person required to have a license under the provisions of this Chapter
who proposes to and does distribute, sell or transfer any adult material, as
defined in Section
11-29-2 of this Code, shall maintain complete records which can be segregated
with regard to all transactions involving such products, merchandise, adult
material, services or entertainment which are sufficient to establish the
percentage of gross receipts of the business which is derived from such
transactions. In the event that the percentage of gross receipts of the
business derived from the sale, trade or rental of adult materials shall exceed
twenty percent (20%) for any consecutive six (6) month period the business
shall be required to comply with Title XI, Chapter 29 of this Code. Such
records shall be maintained for a period of at least three (3) years. (Ord. 99-
9, 8-16-1999)
5-1-16: LICENSE FEE; HOME OCCUPATIONS:
   (A)   through (D) (Rep. by Ord. 891, 3-2-1987, eff. 7-1-1987)
   (E)   Home Occupations: The license fee for this class shall be set by
resolution duly adopted by the City Council. (Ord. 891, 3-2-1987, eff. 7-1-
1987)
   (F)   In computing gross receipts, any return of capital invested, for the
purchase of property or money let or advanced may be excluded.
   (G)   Nothing in this Section contained shall be deemed or construed as
applying to any person engaged in any of the professions or occupations
hereinbefore enumerated solely as an employee of any other person conducting,
managing or carrying on any such business in the City. (Ord. 474, 11-15-54)
5-1-17: LICENSE FEE; FLAT AMOUNT:
The license fee for contractors, all classifications, shall be set by
resolution duly adopted by the Selma City Council. (Ord. 891, 3-2-87, eff. 7-1-
87)
5-1-18: LICENSE FEE; JUNK COLLECTOR:
(Rep. by Ord. 891, 3-2-87, eff. 7-1-87) (See Section
5-1-34)
5-1-19: LICENSE FEE; TRANSIENT PHOTOGRAPHERS:
Every traveling or transient photographer who has no fixed and permanent place
of business within the City shall pay a license fee of one hundred eighty seven
dollars fifty cents ($187.50) per year. (Ord. 474, 11-15-54; amd. Ord. 792, 6-
28-78)
5-1-20: LICENSE FEE; HANDBILLS:
For the business of posting and distributing advertisements for any store or
other business carried on outside the City, the sum of ten dollars ($10.00) per
day; for the business of posting and distributing advertisements for any store
to other business within the limits of the City, the license shall be included
in the regulation license paid by the business pursuant to the provisions of
this Chapter.
5-1-21: LICENSE FEE; CIRCUSES AND CARNIVALS:
For every person conducting, managing or carrying on the business of a circus,
carnival, caravan, menagerie or exhibits, one hundred dollars ($100.00) per
day, and for every person conducting, managing or carrying on a sideshow, or
aftershow connected with or accompanying any circus or exhibits as in this
Section mentioned, twenty dollars ($20.00) per day for each such sideshow or
aftershow; provided, however, that twenty dollars ($20.00) of every one hundred
dollars ($100.00) for the principal show collected as aforesaid shall be
refunded to the person paying the same upon said party delivering to the Clerk
a certificate of the Director of Public Works that the grounds where the show
was conducted were properly cleaned after the show. In case the grounds are not
cleaned, then the sum shall be forfeited to the City. (Ord. 891, 3-2-87, eff.
7-1-87)
5-1-22: LICENSE FEE; POOL HALLS AND BOWLING ALLEYS:
(Rep. by Ord. 891, 3-2-87, eff. 7-1-87) (See Section
5-1-34)
5-1-23: USE OF VEHICLES; NO FIXED PLACE OF BUSINESS; WHEEL FEES:
The provisions of this Section are not to be construed as imposing a fee upon
vehicles, but as a method of classification of businesses and distinguishing
between those businesses maintaining a fixed place of business in the City and
those in the conduct of which vehicles are used but do not have a fixed place
of business in the City.
Every person not having a fixed place of business within the City who delivers
and/or picks up goods, wares, or merchandise by vehicle or who provides any
service by use of vehicles in the City shall pay a license fee on the basis of
gross receipts as set by resolution duly adopted by the Selma City Council.
(Ord. 891, 3-2-87, eff. 7-1-87)
5-1-24: THEATERS, MOVING PICTURES:
(Rep. by Ord. 891, 3-2-87, eff. 7-1-87) (See Section
5-1-34)
5-1-25: FORTUNE TELLING:
(Rep. by Ord. 799, 4-16-79)
5-1-26: CONSTITUTIONAL OR STATUTORY EXEMPTIONS:
Nothing in this Chapter shall be deemed or construed to apply to any person
transacting and carrying on any business exempt by virtue of the constitution
or applicable statutes of the United States or of the State from the payment of
such fees as are herein prescribed. (Ord. 775, 9-6-77)
5-1-27: CHARITABLE ORGANIZATIONS:
The provisions of this Chapter shall not be deemed or construed to require the
payment of a license fee to conduct, manage or carry on any business,
occupation or activity from any institution or organization which is conducted,
managed or carried on wholly for the benefit of charitable purposes or from
which profit is not derived, either directly or indirectly, by any person; nor
shall any license fee be required for the conducting of any entertainment,
concert, exhibition or lecture on scientific, historical, literary, religious
or moral subjects within the City, whenever the receipts of any such
entertainment, concert, exhibition or lecture are to be appropriated to any
church or school or to any religious or benevolent purpose; nor shall any
license fee be required for the conducting of any entertainment, dance,
concert, exhibition or lecture by any religious, charitable, fraternal,
educational, military, State, County, or Municipal organization or association
whenever the receipts of such entertainment, dance, concert, exhibition or
lecture are to be appropriated for the purpose and objects for which the
organization or association was formed and from which profit is not derived,
either directly or indirectly, by any person; provided, however, that nothing
in this Section shall be deemed to exempt any such organization or association
from complying with the provisions of this Code requiring a permit from the
Council or any commission or officer to conduct, manage or carry on any
profession, trade, calling or occupation. (Ord. 775, 9-6-77)
Paid Promoters For Charitable Activities Charging Admission: A paid promoter is
defined as every person and each agent or representative of such person,
conducting, carrying on or managing, for any compensation whatsoever, the
business of selling tickets for, or promoting by advertising or otherwise, any
charitable, political, social or benevolent activity within the City for which
a paid admission is charged or collected. The license fee paid by such
promoters shall be set by resolution duly adopted by the Selma City Council.
(Ord. 891, 3-2-87, eff. 7-1-87)
5-1-28: DISABLED VETERANS:
No license fee payable hereunder shall be payable by any person who has
received an honorable discharge or release from active duty in one of the
United States armed services, and who is physically unable to obtain a
livelihood by manual labor, who is a voter of this State, in connection with
the distribution of circulars or the hawking, peddling or vending of any goods,
wares or merchandise owned by him, except spirituous, malt, vinous or other
intoxicating liquor.
5-1-29: INTERSTATE COMMERCE:
   (A)   None of the license fees provided for by this Chapter shall be so
applied as to occasion an undue burden upon interstate commerce.
   (B)   In any case where a license fee is believed by a licensee or applicant
for license to place an undue burden upon interstate commerce, he may file with
the City Clerk a petition for an adjustment of the fee so that it shall not be
discriminatory or unreasonable as to such interstate commerce.
   (C)   Such petition shall be filed at, or within six (6) months after
payment of the prescribed license fee. The petitioner shall, by affidavit and
supporting testimony, show his method of doing business and the gross volume or
estimated gross volume of his business and such other information as the City
Clerk may deem necessary in order to determine the extent, if any, of such
undue burden on such interstate commerce.
   (D)   The City Clerk shall conduct an investigation, and, after having first
obtained the written approval of the City Attorney, shall fix as the license
fee for the petitioner an amount that is reasonable and non-discriminatory, or
if the license fee has already been paid, shall order a refund of the amount
over and above the license fee so fixed.
   (E)   In fixing the license fee to be charged, the City Clerk is authorized
to base the license fee upon a percentage of gross receipts or any other
measure which will assure that the license fee assessed shall be uniform with
that assessed on businesses of like nature, so long as the amount assessed does
not exceed the license fee prescribed by this Chapter.
   (F)   Within ten (10) days after the Clerk's decision, the City Clerk shall
give such petitioner notice thereof and shall file a copy of such decision with
the City Council.
   (G)   The petitioner may appeal such decision, according to the procedure
provided for appeals, by filing notice of appeal with the City Clerk within six
(6) months from the service of such notice of such decision upon him.
   (H)   Should the City Clerk determine the gross receipts measure of license
fee to be the proper basis, the Clerk may require the applicant to submit
either at the time of termination of applicant's business in the City, or at
the end of each quarter, a sworn statement of the gross receipts and pay the
amount of license fee therefor, provided that no additional license fee during
any one calendar year shall be required after the licensee shall have paid an
amount equal to the annual license fee as prescribed in this Chapter.
5-1-30: PUBLIC UTILITIES UNDER FRANCHISE:
Any public utility, possessing a franchise granted by the City and making
payments under said franchise to the City, shall not be subject to the
provisions of this Chapter.
5-1-31: CLAIM OF EXEMPTION:
   (A)   Any person claiming an exemption pursuant to this Chapter shall file a
verified statement with the City Clerk stating the facts upon which exemption
is claimed.
   (B)   The City Clerk shall, upon a proper showing contained in the verified
statement, issue a license to such person without payment to the City of the
license fee required by this Chapter.
   (C)   The City Clerk shall file a report of the Clerk's decision with the
City Council; and, if the Clerk's decision is adverse, shall within ten (10)
days thereafter give the claimant notice of the Clerk's decision.
   (D)   The City Council may at any time conduct a hearing on and consider
whether the licensee has ceased to be entitled to the exemption provided in
this Chapter by reason of change of circumstances, or whether such licensee was
not entitled to the exemption because of facts not stated in the claim for
exemption, and for such purpose shall fix a time and place for hearing such
matter. Notice of hearing shall be given, and said hearing shall be conducted
and said matter determined substantially in the manner provided in the case of
appeals. The decision of the Council in such case shall be immediately
effective. (Ord. 775, 9-6-77)
5-1-32: PENALTIES:
   (A)   Penalty for Nonpayment of Annual License: Every annual license which
is not paid within a period of forty five (45) days from the time the same
becomes due and payable is hereby declared to be delinquent and the City Clerk
shall thereupon add to the license and collect a penalty of fifty percent (50%)
of the amount due, not less than twenty five dollars ($25.00). (Ord. 891, 3-2-
87, eff. 7-1-87)
   (B)   In the event the license has not been paid for a period of six (6)
months from the time the same becomes due and payable, legal action may be
taken and in the event legal action is required to collect a business license
fee and penalty, said business fee and penalty shall bear interest from the due
date thereof at the rate of seven percent (7%) per annum until paid.
   (C)   Criminal and Civil Action: The conviction and imprisonment of any
person for engaging in any business without first obtaining a license to
conduct the business shall not relieve the person from paying the license fee
to conduct such business, nor shall the payment of any license fee prevent a
criminal prosecution for the violation of any of the provisions of this
Chapter. All remedies by the City shall not bar the use of any other remedy for
the purpose of enforcing the provisions hereof. (Ord. 775, 9-6-77)
5-1-33: ADMISSION FEES, FRAUDULENTLY AVOIDING PAYMENT OF:
It shall be unlawful for any person fraudulently to enter, without payment of
the property admission fee, any theater, ballroom, lecture, concert or other
place where admission fees are charged; provided, however, that nothing herein
contained shall be deemed to prohibit or restrict the free admission of police
officers engaged in the performance of police duties to any place of public
entertainment or amusement. (Ord. 2001-8, 11-19-2001)
5-1-34: LICENSE FEE; GROSS RECEIPTS:
   (A)   Every person engaged in conducting, carrying on or managing any trade,
profession or occupation not otherwise specifically enumerated herein shall pay
an annual license fee based on that person's annual gross receipts. The license
fee for this section shall be set by resolution duly adopted by the Selma city
council.
   (B)   In computing gross receipts, any return of capital invested, for the
purchase of property or money let or advanced may be excluded.
   (C)   Nothing in this section contained shall be deemed or construed as
applying to any person engaged in any of the professions or occupations herein
before enumerated solely as an employee of any other person conducting,
managing or carrying on any such business in the city. (Ord. 891, 3-2-1987,
eff. 7-1-1987)
5-1-35: EXCLUSIONS:
Except as may be otherwise specifically provided in this chapter, the terms
hereof shall not be deemed or construed to apply to any of the following:
   (A)   Banks, including national banking associations, to the extent that a
city may not levy a license fee upon them under the provisions of article XIII,
section 16, subdivision 1(a) of the state constitution.
   (B)   Insurance companies and associations, to the extent that a city may
not levy a license fee upon them under the provisions of article XIII, section
144/5 of the state constitution.
The city clerk may require the filing of a sworn statement from any person
claiming to be excluded by the provisions of this section, setting forth all
facts upon which the exclusion is claimed. (Ord. 891, 3-2-1987, eff. 7-1-1987)
5-1-36: WORD SUBSTITUTION:
In each instance where the term "tax" is used, substitute the word "fee". (Ord.
891, 3-2-1987, eff. 7-1-1987)
5-1-37: SWAP MEETS:
   (A)   Any person conducting a swap meet operation shall pay an annual
business license fee at the office of the clerk in advance of conducting
business. This annual license fee shall be due and payable on the anniversary
date of the issuance of the original license. The license fee for this
subsection shall be set by resolution duly adopted by the Selma city council.
   (B)   Within fifteen (15) days after March 31, June 30, September 30, and
December 31, the swap meet operator shall pay at the office of the clerk a set
fee per day of operation per vendor. The fee for this subsection shall be set
by resolution duly adopted by the Selma city council. The swap meet operator
shall keep a daily list of each vendor conducting business at the swap meet and
submit these lists at the time of payment of the vendor fees at the office of
the clerk.
   (C)   The swap meet operator shall require any vendor conducting business
more than two (2) times within one calendar year to provide the swap meet
operator with proof of possession of a valid sales tax permit issued by the
state board of equalization. Any vendor with the sales tax permit shall collect
sales tax on all taxable items sold at the swap meet. (Ord. 900, 6-6-1988)
CHAPTER 2
LOCAL SALES AND USE TAX
SECTION:
5-2-1: Short Title
5-2-2: Rate And Operative Date
5-2-3: Effective Date
5-2-4: Purpose
5-2-5: Contract With State
5-2-6: Sales Tax (Rep. by Ord. 765, 3-7-1977)
5-2-7: Place Of Sale
5-2-8: Use Tax
5-2-9: Adoption Of Provisions Of State Law
5-2-10: Limitations On Adoption Of State Law
5-2-11: Permit Not Required
5-2-12: Exclusions And Exemptions
5-2-13: Exclusions And Exemptions
5-2-14: Application Of Provisions Relating To Exclusions And Exemptions
5-2-15: Amendments
5-2-16: Enjoining Collection Forbidden
5-2-17: Penalties (Rep. by Ord. 2001-8, 11-19-2001)
5-2-18: Severability
5-2-19: Repeals
5-2-1: SHORT TITLE:
This chapter shall be known as the UNIFORM LOCAL SALES AND USE TAX ORDINANCE.
(Ord. 710, 11-19-1973)
5-2-2: RATE AND OPERATIVE DATE:
   (A)   Sales Tax Provision: For the privilege of selling tangible personal
property at retail, a tax is hereby imposed upon all retailers in the city at
the rate of zero point nine hundred fifty one-thousandths of one percent
(0.950%) of the gross receipts of the retailer from the sale of all tangible
personal property sold at retail in the city on and after July 1, 1999.
   (B)   Use Tax Provision: An excise tax is hereby imposed on the storage,
use, or other consumption in the city of tangible personal property purchased
from any retailer on and after the operative date of this section for storage,
use, or other consumption in the city at the rate of zero point nine hundred
fifty one-thousandths of one percent (0.950%) of the sales price of the
property on and after July 1, 1999. (Ord. 99-3, 4-19-1999)
5-2-3: EFFECTIVE DATE:
This chapter shall be in full force and effect immediately upon its passage and
adoption as an urgency ordinance. (Ord. 765, 3-7-1977)
5-2-4: PURPOSE:
The city council hereby declares that this chapter is adopted to achieve the
following, among other purposes, and directs that the provisions hereof be
interpreted in order to accomplish those purposes:
   (A)   To adopt a sales and use tax ordinance which complies with the
requirements and limitations contained in part 1.5 of division 2 of the Revenue
and Taxation Code;
   (B)   To adopt a sales and use tax ordinance which incorporates provisions
identical to those of the sales and use tax law of the state insofar as those
provisions are not inconsistent with the requirements and limitations contained
in part 1.5 of division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code;
   (C)   To adopt a sales and use tax ordinance which imposes a tax and
provides a measure therefor that can be administered and collected by the state
board of equalization in a manner that adapts itself as fully as practicable
to, and requires the least possible deviation from, the existing statutory and
administrative procedures followed by the state board of equalization in
administering and collecting the state sales and use taxes;
   (D)   To adopt a sales and use tax ordinance which can be administered in a
manner that will, to the degree possible consistent with the provisions of part
1.5 of division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, minimize the cost of
collecting City sales and use taxes and at the same time minimize the burden of
record keeping upon persons subject to taxation under the provisions of this
Ordinance.
5-2-5: CONTRACT WITH STATE:
Prior to the operative date of this Ordinance, the City shall contract with the
State Board of Equalization to perform all functions incident to the
administration and operation of this Sales and Use Tax Ordinance; provided,
that if this City shall not have contracted with the State Board of
Equalization prior to the operative date, it shall nevertheless so contract and
in such a case the operative date shall be the first day of the first calendar
quarter following the execution of such a contract rather than the first day of
the first calendar quarter following the adoption of this Ordinance. (Ord. 710,
11-19-73)
5-2-6: SALES TAX:
(Rep. Ord. 765, 3-7-77)
5-2-7: PLACE OF SALE:
For the purpose of this Ordinance, all retail sales are consummated at the
place of business of the retailer unless the tangible personal property sold is
delivered by the retailer or his agent to an out-of-State destination or to a
common carrier for delivery to an out-of-State destination. The gross receipts
from such sales shall include delivery charges, when such charges are subject
to the State sales and use tax, regardless of the place to which delivery is
made.
In the event a retailer has no permanent place of business in the State or has
more than one place of business, the place or places at which the retail sales
are consummated shall be determined under rules and regulations to be
prescribed and adopted by the State Board of Equalization. (Ord. 710, 11-19-73)
5-2-8: USE TAX:
For the use tax purposes, the sales price shall include delivery charges when
such charges are subject to State sales or use tax regardless of the place to
which delivery is made. (Ord. 765, 3-7-77)
5-2-9: ADOPTION OF PROVISIONS OF STATE LAW:
Except as otherwise provided in this Ordinance and except insofar as they are
inconsistent with the provisions of part 1.5 of division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code, all of the provisions of part 1 of division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code are hereby adopted and made a part of this Ordinance as though
fully set forth herein 1
.
 
Notes
1 1. For statute authority see Gov. C., Sec. 37101.
5-2-10: LIMITATIONS ON ADOPTION OF STATE LAW:
In adopting the provisions of part 1 of division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation
Code, wherever the State of California is named or referred to as the taxing
agency, the name of this City shall be substituted therefor. The substitution,
however, shall not be made when the word "State" is used as part of the title
of the State Controller, the State Treasurer, the State Board of Control, the
State Board of Equalization, the State Treasury, or the Constitution of the
State of California; the substitution shall not be made when the result of that
substitution would require action to be taken by or against the City, or any
agency thereof rather than by or against the State Board of Equalization, in
performing the functions incident to the administration or operation of this
Ordinance; the substitution shall not be made in those sections, including, but
not necessarily limited to sections referring to the exterior boundaries of the
State of California, where the result of the substitution would be to provide
an exemption from this tax with respect to certain sales, storage, use or other
consumption of tangible personal property which would not otherwise be exempt
from this tax while such sales, storage, use or other consumption remain
subject to tax by the State under the provisions of part 1 of division 2 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code, or to impose this tax with respect to certain sales,
storage, use or other consumption of tangible personal property which would not
be subject to tax by the State under the said provisions of that Code; the
substitution shall not be made in Sections 6701, 6702 (except in the last
sentence thereof), 6711, 6715, 6737, 6797 or 6828 of the Revenue and Taxation
Code; and the substitution shall not be made in the word "State" in the phrase
"retailer engaged in business in this State" in Section 6203 or the definition
of that phrase in Section 6203.
5-2-11: PERMIT NOT REQUIRED:
If a seller's permit has been issued to a retailer under section 6067 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code, an additional seller's permit shall not be required
by this Ordinance. (Ord. 710, 11-19-73)
5-2-12: EXCLUSIONS AND EXEMPTIONS:
There shall be excluded from the measure of tax:
   (A)   The amount subject to tax shall not include any sales or use tax
imposed by the State of California upon a retailer or consumer.
   (B)   The storage, use, or other consumption of tangible personal property,
the gross receipts from the sale of which have been subject to tax under a
sales and use tax ordinance enacted in accordance with Part 1.5 of Division 2
of the Revenue and Taxation Code by any city and county, county, or city, in
this State shall be exempt from the tax due under this Ordinance.
   (C)   There are exempted from the computation of the amount of the sales tax
the gross receipts from the sale of tangible personal property to operators of
aircraft to be used or consumed principally outside the City in which the sale
is made and directly and exclusively in the use of such aircraft as common
carriers of persons or property under the authority of the laws of this State,
the United States, or any foreign government.
   (D)   In addition to the exemptions provided in sections 6366 and 6366.1 of
the Revenue and Taxation Code the storage, use, or other consumption of
tangible personal property purchased by operators of aircraft and used or
consumed by such operators directly and exclusively in the use of such aircraft
as common carriers of persons or property for hire or compensation under a
certificate of public convenience and necessity issued pursuant to the laws of
this State, the United States, or any foreign government is exempted from the
use tax. 1
 
Notes
1 1. This Section shall be operative January 1, 1984.
5-2-13: EXCLUSIONS AND EXEMPTIONS:
   (A)   The amount subject to tax shall not include any sales or use tax
imposed by the State of California upon a retailer or consumer.
   (B)   The storage, use, or other consumption of tangible personal property,
the gross receipts from the sale of which have been subject to tax under a
sales and use tax ordinance enacted in accordance with Part 1.5 of Division 2
of the Revenue and Taxation Code by any city and county, county, or city in
this State shall be exempt from the tax due under this Ordinance.
   (C)   There are exempted from the computation of the amount of the sales tax
the gross receipts from the sale of tangible personal property to operators of
water-borne vessels to be used or consumed principally outside the City in
which the sale is made and directly and exclusively in the carriage of persons
or property in such vessels for commercial purposes.
   (D)   The storage, use, or other consumption of tangible personal property
purchased by operators of waterborne vessels and used or consumed by such
operators directly and exclusively in the carriage of persons or property of
such vessels for commercial purposes is exempt from the use tax.
   (E)   There are exempted from the computation of the amount of the sales tax
the gross receipts from the sale of tangible personal property to operators of
aircraft to be used or consumed principally outside the city in which the sale
is made and directly and exclusively in the use of such aircraft as common
carriers of persons or property under the authority of the laws of this State,
the United States, or any foreign government.
   (F)   In addition to the exemptions provided in sections 6366 and 6366.1 of
the Revenue and Taxation Code the storage, use, or other consumption of
tangible personal property purchased by operators of aircraft and used or
consumed by such operators directly and exclusively in the use of such aircraft
as common carriers of persons or property for hire or compensation under a
certificate of public convenience and necessity issued pursuant to the laws of
this State, the United States, or any foreign government is exempted from the
use tax. 1
(Ord. 864, 12-19-83)
 
Notes
  1. This Section shall be operative on the operative date of any act of the
  Legislature of the State of California which amends section 7202 of the
  Revenue and Taxation Code or which repeals and reenacts section 7202 of the
1 Revenue and Taxation Code to provide an exemption from city sales and use
  taxes for operators of waterborne vessels in the same, or substantially the
  same, language as that existing in subdivisions (i)(7) and (i)(8) of section
  7202 as those subdivisions read on October 1, 1983.
5-2-14: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS RELATING TO EXCLUSIONS AND EXEMPTIONS:
   (A)   Section
5-2-13 of this Ordinance shall become operative on January 1 of the year
following the year in which the State Board of Equalization adopts an
assessment ratio for state assessed property which is identical to the ratio
which is required for local assessments by section 401 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code, at which time Section
5-2-12 of this Ordinance shall become inoperative.
   (B)   In the event that Section
5-2-13 of this Ordinance becomes operative and the State Board of Equalization
subsequently adopts an assessment ratio for the state assessed property which
is higher than the ratio which is required for local assessments by section 401
of the Revenue and Taxation Code, Section
5-2-12 of this Ordinance shall become operative on the first day of the month
next following the month in which such higher ratio is adopted, at which time
Section
5-2-13 of this Ordinance shall be inoperative until the first day of the month
following the month in which the Board again adopts an assessment ratio for
state assessed property which is identical to the ratio required for local
assessments by section 401 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, at which time
Section
5-2-13 shall again become operative and Section
5-2-12 shall become inoperative.
5-2-15: AMENDMENTS:
All subsequent amendments of the Revenue and Taxation Code which relate to the
sales and use tax and which are not inconsistent with part 1.5 of division 2 of
the Revenue and Taxation Code shall automatically become a part of this
chapter. (Ord. 710, 11-19-1973)
5-2-16: ENJOINING COLLECTION FORBIDDEN:
No injunction or writ of mandate or other legal or equitable process shall
issue in any suit, action or proceeding in any court against the state or this
city, or against any officer of the state or this city, to prevent or enjoin
the collection under this chapter, or part 1.5 of division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code, of any tax or any amount of tax required to be collected. (Ord.
710, 11-19-1973)
5-2-17: PENALTIES:
(Rep. by Ord. 2001-8, 11-19-2001)
5-2-18: SEVERABILITY:
If any provision of this chapter or the application thereof to any person or
circumstance is held invalid, the remainder of this chapter and the application
of such provision to other persons or circumstances shall not be affected
thereby. (Ord. 710, 11-19-1973)
5-2-19: REPEALS:
Ordinance 513, as amended by ordinances 531, 547 and 569, is hereby repealed;
provided, however, that said ordinance, as amended, shall remain applicable for
the purposes of the administration of said ordinance and the imposition of and
the collection of tax with respect to the sales of, and the storage, use, or
other consumption of tangible personal property prior to January 1, 1974, the
making of refunds, effecting credits, the disposition of monies collected, and
for the commencement or continuance of any action or proceeding under said
ordinance. (Ord. 710, 11-19-1973)
CHAPTER 2.5
PUBLIC SAFETY SERVICES USE TAX
SECTION:
5-2.5-1: Title
5-2.5-2: Operative Date
5-2.5-3: Purpose
5-2.5-4: Contract With State
5-2.5-5: Transactions Tax Rate
5-2.5-6: Place Of Sale
5-2.5-7: Use Tax Rate
5-2.5-8: Adoption Of Provisions Of State Law
5-2.5-9: Limitations On Adoption Of State Law And Collection Of Use Taxes
5-2.5-10: Permit Not Required
5.2.5-11: Exemptions And Exclusions
5-2.5-12: Amendments
5-2.5-13: Enjoining Collection Forbidden
5-2.5-14: Severability
5-2.5-15: Use Of Tax Proceeds And Expenditure Plan
5-2.5-16: Establishment Of Citizens' Oversight Committee
5-2.5-1: TITLE:
This chapter shall be known as the SELMA POLICE, FIRE, 9-1-1 RESPONSE, AND
ANTIGANG AND DRUG PREVENTION ORDINANCE, a special transactions and use tax
ordinance. The city of Selma hereinafter shall be called "city". This chapter
shall be applicable in the incorporated territory of the city. (Ord. 2007-8,
11-6-2007)
5-2.5-2: OPERATIVE DATE:
"Operative date" means the first day of the first calendar quarter commencing
more than one hundred ten (110) days after the adoption hereof, the date of
such adoption being as set forth below. (Ord. 2007-8, 11-6-2007)
5-2.5-3: PURPOSE:
This chapter is adopted to achieve the following, among other purposes, and
directs that the provisions hereof be interpreted in order to accomplish those
purposes:
   (A)   To impose a special retail transactions and use tax in accordance with
the provisions of part 1.6 (commencing with section 7251) of division 2 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code and section 7285.91 of part 1.7 of division 2 which
authorizes the city to adopt this tax ordinance which shall be operative if
two- thirds (2/3) of the electors voting on the measure vote to approve the
enactment of the tax at an election called for that purpose.
   (B)   To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that incorporates
provisions identical to those of the sales and use tax law of the state of
California insofar as those provisions are not inconsistent with the
requirements and limitations contained in part 1.6 of division 2 of the Revenue
and Taxation Code.
   (C)   To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that imposes a
tax and provides a measure therefor that can be administered and collected by
the state board of equalization in a manner that adapts itself as fully as
practicable to, and requires the least possible deviation from, the existing
statutory and administrative procedures followed by the state board of
equalization in administering and collecting the California state sales and use
taxes.
   (D)   To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that can be
administered in a manner that will be, to the greatest degree possible,
consistent with the provisions of part 1.6 of division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code, minimize the cost of collecting the transactions and use taxes,
and at the same time, minimize the burden of record keeping upon persons
subject to taxation under the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 2007-8, 11-6-
2007)
5-2.5-4: CONTRACT WITH STATE:
Prior to the operative date, the city shall contract with the state board of
equalization to perform all functions incident to the administration and
operation of this transactions and use tax ordinance; provided, that if the
city shall not have contracted with the state board of equalization prior to
the operative date, it shall nevertheless so contract and in such a case the
operative date shall be the first day of the first calendar quarter following
the execution of such a contract. (Ord. 2007-8, 11-6-2007)
5-2.5-5: TRANSACTIONS TAX RATE:
For the privilege of selling tangible personal property at retail, a special
tax is hereby imposed upon all retailers in the incorporated territory of the
city at the rate of 0.50 percent of the gross receipts of any retailer from the
sale of all tangible personal property sold at retail in said territory on and
after the operative date hereof. Such tax shall be in addition to any other
transactions tax imposed by this code or applicable state law. (Ord. 2007-8,
11-6-2007)
5-2.5-6: PLACE OF SALE:
For the purposes of this chapter, all retail sales are consummated at the place
of business of the retailer unless the tangible personal property sold is
delivered by the retailer or his agent to an out of state destination or to a
common carrier for delivery to an out of state destination. The gross receipts
from such sales shall include delivery charges, when such charges are subject
to the state sales and use tax, regardless of the place to which delivery is
made. In the event a retailer has no permanent place of business in the state
or has more than one place of business, the place or places at which the retail
sales are consummated shall be determined under rules and regulations to be
prescribed and adopted by the state board of equalization. (Ord. 2007-8, 11-6-
2007)
5-2.5-7: USE TAX RATE:
An excise tax is hereby imposed on the storage, use or other consumption in the
city of tangible personal property purchased from any retailer on and after the
operative date hereof for storage, use or other consumption in said territory
at the rate of 0.50 percent of the sales price of the property. The sales price
shall include delivery charges when such charges are subject to state sales or
use tax regardless of the place to which delivery is made. Such special tax
shall be in addition to any other use tax imposed by this code or applicable
state law. (Ord. 2007-8, 11-6-2007)
5-2.5-8: ADOPTION OF PROVISIONS OF STATE LAW:
Except as otherwise provided in this chapter and except insofar as they are
inconsistent with the provisions of part 1.6 of division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code, all of the provisions of part 1 (commencing with section 6001)
of division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code are hereby adopted and made a
part of this chapter as though fully set forth herein. (Ord. 2007-8, 11-6-2007)
5-2.5-9: LIMITATIONS ON ADOPTION OF STATE LAW AND COLLECTION OF USE TAXES:
In adopting the provisions of part 1 of division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation
Code:
   (A)   Wherever the state of California is named or referred to as the taxing
agency, the name of this city shall be substituted therefor. However, the
substitution shall not be made when:
      1.   The word "state" is used as a part of the title of the state
controller, state treasurer, state board of control, state board of
equalization, state treasury, or the constitution of the state of California;
      2.   The result of that substitution would require action to be taken by
or against this city or any agency, officer, or employee thereof rather than by
or against the state board of equalization, in performing the functions
incident to the administration or operation of this chapter.
      3.   In those sections, including, but not necessarily limited to,
sections referring to the exterior boundaries of the state of California, where
the result of the substitution would be to:
         (a)   
         (b)   
      4.   In section 6701, 6702 (except in the last sentence thereof), 6711,
6715, 6737, 6797 or 6828 of the Revenue and Taxation Code.
   (B)   The word "city" shall be substituted for the word "state" in the
phrase "retailer engaged in business in this state" in section 6203 and in the
definition of that phrase in section 6203. (Ord. 2007-8, 11-6-2007)
5-2.5-10: PERMIT NOT REQUIRED:
If a seller's permit has been issued to a retailer under section 6067 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code, an additional transactor's permit shall not be
required by this chapter. (Ord. 2007-8, 11-6-2007)
5-2.5-11: EXEMPTIONS AND EXCLUSIONS:
   (A)   There shall be excluded from the measure of the transactions tax and
the use tax the amount of any sales tax or use tax imposed by the state of
California or by any city, city and county, or county pursuant to the Bradley-
Burns uniform local sales and use tax law or the amount of any state
administered transactions or use tax.
   (B)   There are exempted from the computation of the amount of transactions
tax the gross receipts from:
      1.   Sales of tangible personal property, other than fuel or petroleum
products, to operators of aircraft to be used or consumed principally outside
the county in which the sale is made and directly and exclusively in the use of
such aircraft as common carriers of persons or property under the authority of
the laws of this state, the United States, or any foreign government.
      2.   Sales of property to be used outside the city which is shipped to a
point outside the city, pursuant to the contract of sale, by delivery to such
point by the retailer or his agent, or by delivery by the retailer to a carrier
for shipment to a consignee at such point. For the purposes of this subsection,
delivery to a point outside the city shall be satisfied:
         (a)   With respect to vehicles (other than commercial vehicles)
subject to registration pursuant to chapter 1 (commencing with section 4000) of
division 3 of the Vehicle Code, aircraft licensed in compliance with section
21411 of the Public Utilities Code, and undocumented vessels registered under
division 3.5 (commencing with section 9840) of the Vehicle Code by registration
to an out of city address and by a declaration under penalty of perjury, signed
by the buyer, stating that such address is, in fact, his or her principal place
of residence; and
         (b)   With respect to commercial vehicles, by registration to a place
of business out of city and declaration under penalty of perjury, signed by the
buyer, that the vehicle will be operated from that address.
      3.   The sale of tangible personal property if the seller is obligated to
furnish the property for a fixed price pursuant to a contract entered into
prior to the operative date hereof.
      4.   A lease of tangible personal property which is a continuing sale of
such property, for any period of time for which the lessor is obligated to
lease the property for an amount fixed by the lease prior to the operative date
hereof.
      5.   For the purposes of subsections (B)3 and (B)4 of this section, the
sale or lease of tangible personal property shall be deemed not to be obligated
pursuant to a contract or lease for any period of time for which any party to
the contract or lease has the unconditional right to terminate the contract or
lease upon notice, whether or not such right is exercised.
   (C)   There are exempted from the use tax enacted by this chapter, the
storage, use or other consumption in this city of tangible personal property:
      1.   The gross receipts from the sale of which have been subject to a
transactions tax under any state administered transactions and use tax
ordinance.
      2.   Other than fuel or petroleum products purchased by operators of
aircraft and used or consumed by such operators directly and exclusively in the
use of such aircraft as common carriers of persons or property for hire or
compensation under a certificate of public convenience and necessity issued
pursuant to the laws of this state, the United States, or any foreign
government. This exemption is in addition to the exemptions provided in
sections 6366 and 6366.1 of the Revenue and Taxation Code of the state of
California.
      3.   If the purchaser is obligated to purchase the property for a fixed
price pursuant to a contract entered into prior to the operative date hereof.
      4.   If the possession of, or the exercise of any right or power over,
the tangible personal property arises under a lease which is a continuing
purchase of such property for any period of time for which the lessee is
obligated to lease the property for an amount fixed by a lease prior to the
operative date hereof.
      5.   For the purposes of subsections (C)3 and (C)4 of this section,
storage, use, or other consumption, or possession of, or exercise of any right
or power over, tangible personal property shall be deemed not to be obligated
pursuant to a contract or lease for any period of time for which any party to
the contract or lease has the unconditional right to terminate the contract or
lease upon notice, whether or not such right is exercised.
      6.   Except as provided in subsection (C)7 of this section, a retailer
engaged in business in the city shall not be required to collect use tax from
the purchaser of tangible personal property, unless the retailer ships or
delivers the property into the city or participates within the city in making
the sale of the property, including, but not limited to, soliciting or
receiving the order, either directly or indirectly, at a place of business of
the retailer in the city or through any representative, agent, canvasser,
solicitor, subsidiary, or person in the city under the authority of the
retailer.
      7.   "A retailer engaged in business in the city" shall also include any
retailer of any of the following: vehicles subject to registration pursuant to
chapter 1 (commencing with section 4000) of division 3 of the Vehicle Code,
aircraft licensed in compliance with section 21411 of the Public Utilities
Code, or undocumented vessels registered under division 3.5 (commencing with
section 9840) of the Vehicle Code. That retailer shall be required to collect
use tax from any purchaser who registers or licenses the vehicle, vessel, or
aircraft at an address in the city.
   (D)   Any person subject to use tax under this chapter may credit against
that tax any transactions tax or reimbursement for transactions tax paid to a
district imposing, or retailer liable for a transactions tax pursuant to part
1.6 of division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code with respect to the sale to
the person of the property the storage, use or other consumption of which is
subject to the use tax. (Ord. 2007-8, 11-6-2007)
5-2.5-12: AMENDMENTS:
   (A)   All amendments subsequent to the effective date hereof to part 1 of
division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code relating to sales and use taxes and
which are not inconsistent with part 1.6 and part 1.7 of division 2 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code, and all amendments to part 1.6 and part 1.7 of
division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, shall automatically become a part
of this chapter, provided however, that no such amendment shall operate so as
to affect the rate of tax imposed by this chapter unless any increase in the
rate of this tax is first approved by two-thirds (2/3) of the voters of the
city of Selma voting on such question.
   (B)   Pursuant to California Elections Code section 9217 or any successor
statute, the city council of the city of Selma may amend or repeal this chapter
and any of its exhibits, but not increase or extend the rate of tax imposed
herein, without a vote of the people. (Ord. 2007-8, 11-6-2007)
5-2.5-13: ENJOINING COLLECTION FORBIDDEN:
No injunction or writ of mandate or other legal or equitable process shall
issue in any suit, action or proceeding in any court against the state or the
city, or against any officer of the state or the city, to prevent or enjoin the
collection under this chapter, or part 1.6 of division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code, of any tax or any amount of tax required to be collected. (Ord.
2007-8, 11-6-2007)
5-2.5-14: SEVERABILITY:
If any provision of this chapter or the application thereof to any person or
circumstance is held invalid, the remainder of this chapter and the application
of such provision to other persons or circumstances shall not be affected
thereby. (Ord. 2007-8, 11-6-2007)
5-2.5-15: USE OF TAX PROCEEDS AND EXPENDITURE PLAN:
All proceeds of the tax levied and imposed hereunder shall be accounted for and
paid into a public safety fund or special account designated for use by the
city of Selma only for the public safety services set forth in the program
guidelines and public safety expenditure plan for the administration and
expenditure of the tax proceeds, attached to the ordinance codified herein as
exhibit 1. The public safety expenditure plan may be amended from time to time
by a majority vote of the city council, so long as the funds are exclusively
utilized for public safety, police and fire protection services within the city
of Selma. No funds can be taken by the state or another government agency; all
funds can only be spent within the city of Selma for the purposes designated in
the public safety expenditure plan. These purposes include: a) obtaining,
furnishing, operating, and/or maintaining police protection equipment or
apparatus, paying the salaries and benefits of police protection personnel, and
such other police protection service expenses as are deemed necessary by the
city council for the benefit of the safety of residents of the city, consistent
with the public safety expenditure plan; b) obtaining, furnishing, operating,
and/or maintaining fire protection equipment or apparatus, paying the salaries
and benefits of fire protection personnel, and such other fire protection
service expenses, including capital expenses, as are deemed necessary by the
city council for the benefit of the safety of residents of the city and
consistent with the public safety expenditure plan. No revenues collected
pursuant to the tax levied herein may be spent on department administrators'
salaries, general fund operating expenses in effect at the time this chapter
becomes effective, or projects not a part of the public safety measure police
and fire expenditure plan. It is the intent of the people that revenues
collected hereunder shall supplement, rather than supplant, existing city
expenditures for public safety. (Ord. 2007-8, 11-6-2007)
5-2.5-16: ESTABLISHMENT OF CITIZENS' OVERSIGHT COMMITTEE:
   (A)   Committee Established: There is hereby established in the city of
Selma that an independent citizens' oversight committee shall monitor the
expenditures of revenue collected pursuant to this chapter only and report to
the people and the city council.
   (B)   Selection Of Members: Members of the citizens' oversight committee
shall be appointed by the city council. The committee shall consist of five (5)
members. The citizens' oversight committee members shall not be current city of
Selma employees, officials, contractors or vendors of the city. Past employees,
officials or vendors shall be eligible to serve on the committee, provided that
there are no conflicts of interest as determined by the city attorney.
Of the members of the committee first appointed, three (3) shall be appointed
for terms of two (2) years and two (2) for terms of three (3) years. Their
successors shall be appointed for terms of three (3) years. No member may serve
more than two (2) consecutive three (3) year terms.
The city council shall solicit citizens' oversight committee members through an
open application process that is promoted through a broad based recruitment
process. Any Selma resident is eligible to apply for committee membership,
subject to the appointment categories specified above. All applications will be
reviewed by the city council, which will have the authority to make all final
decisions on committee representation, subject to these guidelines.
   (C)   Purpose And Jurisdiction: The citizens' oversight committee shall
review expenditures of revenue collected pursuant to this chapter only to
determine whether such funds are expended for the purposes specified in the
then current public safety measure police and fire expenditure plan, and
issuing reports on their findings to the city council and public at least
annually. Committee members may also review the annual financial or performance
audits performed by an independent auditor. The committee shall confine its
oversight specifically to revenues generated under this chapter. Revenue
generated through other sources shall be outside the jurisdiction of the public
safety measure citizens' oversight committee.
In order to preserve the integrity and independence of the oversight process,
committee members will not play a formal role in contracting, project
management, or any other aspect of the public safety measure funding.
The committee is not charged with decision making on spending priorities,
schedules, project details, funding source decisions (e.g., leveraged funds,
developer fees, etc.), financing plans, or tax rate assumptions. The committee
shall serve in an advisory only role to the city council. The committee shall
have no jurisdiction other than that delegated to it by the people pursuant to
this chapter.
The city of Selma city manager or his or her designee shall provide any
reasonable administrative or technical assistance required by the committee to
fulfill its responsibilities or publicize its findings.
   (D)   Meetings: The citizens' oversight committee shall meet semiannually
(or as otherwise provided for in approved or amended bylaws) with specific
meeting dates to be determined by committee members. Citizens' oversight
committee meetings are subject to the Brown act. Meetings must be noticed and
open to the public. Committee minutes and reports are a matter of public
record, and must be posted on a website provided by the city. Additional
meetings may be scheduled by the committee as necessary. All committee members
shall attend a training and orientation session prior to the first regular
committee meeting.
Committee members are expected to attend all regular meetings. Failure to
attend two (2) consecutive meetings may result in removal from the committee at
the discretion of the city council.
   (E)   Committee Operations: The citizens' oversight committee will select
members to serve as chair and vice chair of the committee. A city staff person
will be appointed by the city manager or his or her designee to serve as
secretary. The secretary will be responsible for preparing, posting and
distributing agendas and taking minutes at each meeting. Approved minutes shall
be made available to the public. Committee decisions, positions, findings and
procedures shall require a simple majority vote of those members in attendance.
The quorum requirement for any meeting shall be a minimum of three (3) members.
   (F)   Vacancies: Committee members may be removed from the committee only by
the city council for repeated absence (see subsection (D) of this section), for
malfeasance, for failing to meet the qualifications set forth in this section
or for inability or unwillingness to fulfill the duties of a member. In the
event of removal, resignation, or death, the city council shall appoint a
person to fill the vacant seat.
   (G)   Miscellaneous: With the exception of those items specifically
addressed in these guiding principles, the committee may draft and adopt its
own standard procedures and bylaws by majority vote.
All citizens' oversight committee procedures and bylaws remain subject to
review and approval by the city council. Citizens' oversight committee reports
and audits are subject to review and approval of the city council. (Ord. 2007-
8, 11-6-2007)
CHAPTER 3
NURSING HOMES
SECTION:
5-3-1: Definitions
5-3-2: License Required
5-3-3: Application for a License
5-3-4: Investigation
5-3-5: Issuance of License
5-3-6: Licenses; Terms
5-3-7: Refusal of License
5-3-8: Rules and Regulations
5-3-9: Records; Reports
5-3-10: Record of Employees
5-3-11: Inspection of Records
5-3-12: Inspections; Revocation of License
5-3-13: Compliance Required
5-3-14: Zoning Restrictions
5-3-15: Revocation of License
5-3-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this Chapter the following terms, phrases, words, and their
derivations shall have the meaning given herein:
   AGED: The word "Aged" shall mean any person sixty-five (65) years of age or
over.
   APPLICANT: The word "Applicant" shall mean a person that submits to the
Health Department an application for a license or the renewal of a license to
conduct, operate or maintain a nursing home under the provisions of this
Chapter
   INMATE: The word "Inmate" shall mean any person accommodated, cared for,
treated, hospitalized, or boarded in any nursing home.
   LICENSEE: The word "Licensee" shall mean a person having a City license in
full force and effect issued hereunder for a nursing home.
   NURSING HOME: The term "Nursing Home" shall mean any nursing home,
convalescent home, institution, home, place or facility for the accommodation,
care, hospitalization, treatment or boarding of one (1) or more aged, sick,
infirmed, convalescent, invalid, mentally ill, feeble-minded, incompetent,
decrepit, blind, disabled, injured, infected or chronically ill person, drug
addict, dipsomaniac, or inebriate, for which accommodation, care treatment,
boarding, or hospitalization a charge is made or compensation is required or
expected, whether by fee or gift; provided, however, that the accommodation,
care, treatment, hospitalization or boarding in a household or family, for
compensation or otherwise of a person related by blood to the head of such
household or family, or to his spouse, within and including the fourth degree
of consanguinity within the Law of this State, shall not be deemed to
constitute a nursing home within the meaning of this Chapter; provided,
further, that the provisions of this Chapter shall not apply to any nursing
home, hospital, clinic, treatment center, institution or other facility
operated or maintained by or under the jurisdiction of the State, any agency or
political subdivision of the State, or by any other public body or public
entity, or operation or maintained pursuant to State license or permit or State
supervision.
5-3-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to conduct, operate or maintain or permit
to be conducted, operated or maintained, or to participate in the conduct,
maintenance or operation of a nursing home within the City unless the Health
Department has issued a valid license therefor which is in full force and
effect.
5-3-3: APPLICATION FOR A LICENSE:
Application for a license hereunder shall be made to the Health Department in
such form and manner as it may prescribe. The application shall include such
information and data respecting the nursing home for which the license is
requested as the Health Department may prescribe, including a description of
the facility and service and a statement of the personnel and program that are
to be used therefor.
5-3-4: INVESTIGATION:
Upon receipt of an application for a license hereunder, the Health Department
shall cause an investigation to be made of the activities, services and
facilities of the applicant, including the character, reputation, health and
qualifications of the applicant and members of the applicant's staff and of the
applicant's financial responsibility. The applicant shall afford the
representatives of the Health Department reasonable opportunity to inspect the
applicant's nursing home for which the license is requested, its books and
records and to interview the applicant's agents and employees and any inmate
within the care or custody of the applicant in such nursing home.
5-3-5: ISSUANCE OF LICENSE:
Upon completion of such investigation the Health Department shall issue a City
license to the applicant for the nursing home when it finds and determines that
the applicant is adequately qualified and equipped to conduct, operate and
maintain the nursing home for which the license is to be issued; that such
nursing home conforms to the requirements of this Chapter; that it will be
operated and maintained in such manner as to be conducive to the benefit and
welfare of the inmates in such nursing home; that the applicant's financial
responsibility is such as to give reasonable assurance of the continued
operation and maintenance of such facility; and that the applicant and the
applicant's staff are of good character and reputation.
5-3-6: LICENSE; TERMS:
   (A)   Number of Inmates: The license when issued shall designate the maximum
number of inmates to be accommodated in the nursing home to which it applies
and this number shall at no time be exceeded.
   (B)   Expiration: Each license, whether an original or a renewal license,
shall expire at the end of one year from the date of its issuance, which date
of expiration shall be stated upon its face, unless sooner revoked or
surrendered.
   (C)   Form and Transferability: The licenses shall be issued on forms
prescribed by the Health Department. Licenses shall not be transferable either
as to place or person.
   (D)   Provisional License: The Health Department may issue a provisional
license to any applicant for any period not to exceed six (6) months if the
applicant is temporarily unable to comply with all the requirements of this
Chapter. Such provisional license may be renewed but only for one additional
period, not exceeding six (6) months, provided, the applicant has made
reasonable efforts to comply with such requirements.
   (E)   Delays: In the event of delay on the part of the Health Department to
take final action upon an application for a license within ninety (90) days
after submittal, it shall be lawful for the applicant to engage in the
operation of the nursing home for which the license has been applied for until
the Health Department has taken final action on the application and has
notified the applicant thereof. (1963 Code)
   (F)   Fees: There shall be collected by the Health Department before the
issuance of any license or renewal license an annual fee of ten dollars
($10.00), which fee shall be deposited with the City Clerk. (Ord. 891, 3-2-87,
eff. 7-1-87)
5-3-7: REFUSAL OF LICENSE:
The Health Department shall deny a license for a nursing home if it shall
appear to its satisfaction that the applicant, or if the applicant be a
corporation, any officer or person who is to be in charge of such nursing home,
has been convicted of a felony, or of a misdemeanor involving moral turpitude,
or has had inadequate training or experience in the care of inmates of the
nursing home.
5-3-8: RULES AND REGULATIONS:
The Health Department shall have the power and is hereby authorized to
promulgate such rules and regulations for the operation of nursing homes in the
City which it finds necessary or proper to carry out the intent of this
Chapter.
5-3-9: RECORDS; REPORTS:
Every licensee hereunder shall provide and maintain in such nursing home a
register in bound book form setting forth the following facts concerning each
inmate received, cared for or accommodated in such nursing home:
   (A)   Name.
   (B)   Last previous address.
   (C)   Age.
   (D)   Date of admission.
   (E)   Next of kin.
   (F)   Name and address of the person responsible for the care and
maintenance.
   (G)   Name of inmate's attending physician.
   (H)   All written or verbal orders of the inmate's attending physician and
the date on which such orders were given.
   (I)   Date of discharge or death.
   (J)   Cause of death.
   (K)   Disposition of personal effects at death.
   (L)   The amount and disposition of any money or other valuable deposited
with the licensee to the credit of the inmate.
All entries required herein shall be made within twenty four (24) hours from
the time of admission, or from the time of occurrence of the event required to
be recorded. Every licensee shall keep and maintain such other records and make
such reports to the Health Department as it may reasonably require upon such
forms as it may prescribe.
5-3-10: RECORD OF EMPLOYEES:
Every licensee shall maintain a record setting forth the following facts
concerning each nurse, attendant or other employee in such nursing home:
   (A)   Name.
   (B)   Age.
   (C)   Date employment began in the nursing home.
   (D)   Present and last previous address.
   (E)   Name and address of employers during the preceding three (3) year
period.
   (F)   Position and duties.
   (G)   If employed as a nurse, date of State registration.
   (H)   Date employment terminated.
   (I)   Reason for termination.
A copy of such record shall be delivered to the Health Department at its office
in the City not later than seventy two (72) hours following the employment of
any such person.
5-3-11: INSPECTION OF RECORDS:
All records required to be kept under the terms of this Chapter by the licensee
shall be open to inspection by the Health Department at all reasonable hours.
It shall be unlawful to make any false entries in said records. In addition to
the penalties provided in this Code, falsification of such records or the
omission of information required thereon shall be cause for revocation of the
license.
5-3-12: INSPECTIONS; REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
It shall be the duty of the Health Department to inspect nursing homes for
which licenses have been issued hereunder as often as it shall be necessary for
the adequate control and supervision of the same, and the Health Department
shall have the right to enter all such homes at any reasonable time for the
purpose of making necessary investigations and inspections, and shall be
charged with the responsibility of enforcing and administering the provisions
of this Chapter. Every nursing home shall at all reasonable times be open for
inspection by the Fire Chief and the Building Department of the City as well as
the Health Department.
In case of any failure by a licensee to comply with the requirements of this
Chapter or any rules and regulations promulgated pursuant hereto, the Health
Department shall notify the licensee to correct the noncompliance, breach,
default of illegal condition within such number of days as is reasonable in the
light of the conditions to be remedies. In the event of failure, or upon
refusal of the licensee, to comply with the Health Department's instructions,
the Health Department shall revoke the license; provided, however, that upon a
showing of hardship or other circumstances warranting such action, the Health
Department shall have the authority to grant an extension of time for
compliance with the Health Department's instructions.
5-3-13: COMPLIANCE REQUIRED:
No license for a nursing home shall be issued hereunder unless it is determined
that the provisions of this Code applicable to such nursing home are being
observed and complied with, including the provisions relating to health,
sanitation, safety, fire, buildings, housing, electrical and other provisions
relating thereto.
5-3-14: ZONING RESTRICTIONS:
No license shall be issued for a nursing home if the location thereof shall be
in violation of the Zoning provisions of this Code, unless such nursing home
was being operated in such a locality as a nursing home prior to the
enforcement of the Zoning provisions.
5-3-15: REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
The Health Department may revoke or suspend any license for a nursing home if
it is determined that the nursing home is being operated or maintained in
violation of the requirements of this Chapter or of the regulations promulgated
pursuant to this Chapter or for any of the following causes:
   (A)   Fraud or misrepresentation in obtaining the license.
   (B)   Maltreating or abusing any inmate of such nursing home.
   (C)   Using practices inimical to the physical, mental or moral well-being
of any inmate.
   (D)   Conducting the nursing home in a manner constituting a breach of the
public peace or a menace to the public health, safety, morals or welfare.
Such revocation or suspension of the license shall be in addition to any other
penalty that may be provided by Law. (1963 Code)
CHAPTER 4
TAXICABS; VEHICLES FOR HIRE
SECTION:
5-4-1: Definitions
5-4-2: Vehicle Permit Required
5-4-3: Application for Permit; Fee
5-4-4: Application Hearing; Notice
5-4-5: Denial of Permit
5-4-6: Unlawful Service Prohibited
5-4-7: Revocation of Permit; Hearing
5-4-8: License Issuance; Fee
5-4-9: Taxicabs to be Numbered
5-4-10: Driver's Permit Required
5-4-11: Investigation of Applicant
5-4-12: Revocation of Driver's Permit
5-4-13: Taxicab Stands
5-4-14: Taxicab Stand Permit Fee
5-4-15: Changes in Rates or Vehicles to be Reported
5-4-16: Vehicles to be Operated by Owner
5-4-17: Trip Records to be Kept
5-4-18: Taxicab to Display Rate Schedule
5-4-19: Schedule of Fares to be Furnished City
5-4-20: Liability Insurance Required
5-4-21: Vehicles to be Approved by Police Chief
5-4-22: Duties of Drivers
5-4-23: Operation of Vehicle Without Proper Insignia Prohibited
5-4-24: Permit Holders Subject to Applicable Laws
5-4-25: Enforcement of Provisions
5-4-26: Refusal to Pay Fare
5-4-1: DEFINITIONS:
Whenever the following words or terms are used in this Chapter they shall have
the meanings herein ascribed to them:
   TAXICAB: The word "Taxicab" shall mean every automobile or motor propelled
vehicle by means of which passengers are transported for hire upon any public
street in the City and not over a particular or defined route, and irrespective
of whether the operations extend beyond the boundary limits of the City or not,
where charge for the transportation is measured by the distance traveled or by
the time required for such transportation, or both, excepting vehicles or
transportation companies as herein defined.
   TRANSPORTATION COMPANIES: The term "Transportation Companies" shall be
synonymous with the phrase "Transportation Company" as defined in that certain
Act of the Legislature of the State, approved May 10, 1917, providing for the
supervision of transportation of persons and property for compensation over
public highways by automobiles, jitney buses, auto trucks, stages and auto
stages and all amendments to the Act.
   AUTOMOBILE FOR HIRE: The term "Automobile For Hire" shall mean every
automobile or motor propelled vehicle by means of which passengers are
transported for hire upon any public street in the City and not over a regular
or defined route and irrespective of whether the operation extends beyond the
limits of the City or not, except vehicles embraced in the term taxicab and
except vehicles and transportation companies as herein defined.
5-4-2: VEHICLE PERMIT REQUIRED:
It shall he unlawful to operate an automobile for hire or a taxicab upon any
public street within the City without first having obtained a permit to so do
in accordance with the provisions hereof and without complying with all the
provisions of this Chapter. (Ord. 371, 8-19-46)
5-4-3: APPLICATION FOR PERMIT; FEE:
Any person desiring to obtain a permit required by Section
5-4-2 of this Chapter shall pay a fee of one hundred dollars ($100.00) to the
Clerk and shall make application for the permit to the Council which
application shall set forth: (Ord. 906, 12-19-88)
   (A)   The name and address of the applicant, and if the same be a
corporation, the names of its principal officers, or if the same is a
partnership, association or fictitious company, the names of the partners or
persons comprising the association or company with the addresses of each.
   (B)   A statement as to whether the permit is desired for an automobile for
hire or taxicab.
   (C)   A description of every motor vehicle which the applicant proposes to
use, giving:
      1.   Trade name, year and model.
      2.   Motor and serial number.
      3.   State license number.
      4.   Seating capacity.
      5.   Body style.
      6.   The street number and exact location of the place where the
applicant proposes to stand each such automobile.
   (D)   Proposed schedule of rates or fares to be charged for carrying
passengers in such automobile. (Ord. 371, 8-19-46)
   (E)   The distinctive color scheme, name, monogram or insignia, and
illuminated status display (vacant/in use) which shall be used on the
automobile. (Ord. 906, 12-19-88)
   (F)   If any proposed stand is in the public street, the application shall
be accompanied by a written consent thereto of all the occupants of the ground
floor of any building in front of which the automobile is to be located and for
twenty feet (20') each way therefrom, or if there is no such occupant, by the
written consent of the owner or lessee of the building or lot.
   (G)   The applicant shall maintain a place of business within the limits of
the City and maintain a telephone at such place of business and that taxicabs
shall be available for patrons on a twenty four (24) hour basis.
   (H)   The past experience of the applicant in the matter to which the
requested permit pertains; and the name, address, and past experience of the
person to be in charge of the premises ar business.
   (I)   A verified financial statement of the applicant.
   (J)   Whether or not any permit has been revoked, and if so, the
circumstances of the revocation.
   (K)   Such further information as the Council, or such official of the City
to whom the application may be referred, may require. (Ord. 371, 8-19-46)
   (L)   Proof of maintenance of vehicles in accordance with the manufacturer
of the vehicle's recommended maintenance specifications and schedule of
maintenance. (Ord. 906, 12-19-88)
5-4-4: APPLICATION HEARING; NOTICE:
Upon receipt of any application referred to in Section
 5-4-3 hereof, the Clerk shall set a time, not less than ten (10) or more than
thirty (30) days thereafter, for the hearing of the application before the
Council and shall give notice of the time so set at least seven (7) days before
the date of the hearing to the applicant by mail at the address set forth in
the application and by mail to all other permit holders. (Ord. 371, 8-19-46)
At the time set for the hearing of the application, the Mayor and Council may
examine the applicant and all persons interested in the matter set forth in the
application, and shall determine whether or not the public interest,
convenience and necessity require the issuance of the permit applied for. It
shall, by resolution, order the Clerk to issue a permit, subject to the filing
and approval of an insurance policy as hereinafter provided in Section
5-4-20. (Ord. 906, 12-19-88)
5-4-5: DENIAL OF PERMIT:
The following reasons shall be sufficient for denial of the permit:
   (A)   That the application is not in the form and does not contain the
information required to be contained therein by this Chapter.
   (B)   That the vehicles described therein are inadequate or unsafe for the
purposes for which they are to be used.
   (C)   That the color scheme, name, monogram or insignia to be used upon the
vehicles shall be in conflict with or imitate any color scheme, name, monogram
or insignia used by any other person in such manner as to be misleading or tend
to deceive or defraud the public.
   (D)   That the location of the stand as herein stated, is such as to congest
or interfere with travel on any public street or that the proposed stand is
within one hundred feet (100') of any other stand heretofore fixed by the
Council on the same street.
   (E)   That the applicant has, at some time prior, had a permit for the
operation of automobiles for hire or taxicabs revoked for reason, or that the
applicant is not financially responsible.
   (F)   That it shall appear to the Council that there are a sufficient number
of taxicabs and automobiles for hire in the City to fully serve the public and
that the granting of more permits would unduly congest traffic and interfere
with the free use of the public streets by the public, and that the public
interest, convenience and necessity do not require the issuance of the permit.
   (G)   That the persons holding permits for the operation of taxicabs or
automobiles for hire are under efficient management and are adequately serving
the public under normal conditions.
5-4-6: UNLAWFUL SERVICE PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any owner granted a permit hereunder to conduct any
operation or give any service other than the service authorized by his permit
granted by the Council in accordance with provisions of this Chapter. (Ord.
371, 8-19-46)
5-4-7: REVOCATION OF PERMIT; HEARING:
The Council shall have the power to suspend or revoke any or all of the owner's
permits granted under the provisions of this Chapter for any of the following
reasons:
   (A)   That the insurance provided for in Section
5-4-20 of this Chapter has not been given, has been withdrawn or lapsed for
nonpayment of premium, or is not in force for any reason;
   (B)   When it shall have determined that any of the provisions hereof have
been violated or that any holder of a permit shall have failed to comply with
the terms of the permit or the rules and regulations of the Council pertaining
to the operation of and to the extent, character and quality of the service of
any such vehicles;
   (C)   For the nonpayment of any license fee provided by Chapter 1 of Title 5
of this Code;
   (D)   For the violation of any laws of the State, County, or City by any
permittee, operator, or driver of an automobile for hire or taxicab;
   (E)   For failure to maintain satisfactory service to the public by means of
any of the vehicles described in the permit, or for failure to keep any such
vehicle in use for any reasonable length of time, or for failure to use the
distinctive color, monogram or insignia, or illuminated status display
described in the application; or
   (F)   For any cause which, in the opinion of the Council, makes it contrary
to the public interest, convenience, and necessity for the permit to be
continued.
Before revocation of the permit, the owner shall be entitled to a hearing
thereon before the Council, and shall be notified thereof. Notice of hearing on
such suspension or revocation shall be in writing, and shall be served at least
ten (10) days prior to the date of the hearing thereon, such service to be upon
the holder of the permit, or its manager or agent, and the notice shall state
the grounds of the complaint against the holder of the permit and shall also
state the time when, and the place where the hearing will be held. In the event
the holder of the permit cannot be found, or service of the notice cannot be
made upon him, in the manner herein provided, then a copy of the notice shall
be mailed postage fully prepaid, addressed to the owner, at his last known
address, at least ten (10) days prior to the date of the hearing. (Ord. 906,
12-19-88)
5-4-8: LICENSE ISSUANCE; FEE:
The permits herein mentioned shall entitle the holder thereof to obtain a
license to engage in the business described in the permit from the Clerk upon
payment of the license fee as set forth in Section
5-1-34. (Ord. 891, 3-2-87, eff. 7-1-87)
5-4-9: TAXICABS TO BE NUMBERED:
Each taxicab operated pursuant to the terms of this Chapter shall be numbered
to correspond with the number appearing on the license. The number shall be
printed upon the body of the taxicab in numbers not less than four inches (4")
nor more than six inches (6") in height in a position approved from time to
time by the Council.
5-4-10: DRIVER'S PERMIT REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to operate any vehicle required by this
Chapter to obtain a permit, without first obtaining a driver's permit or
temporary driver's permit, issued pursuant to this Chapter, so to do. (Ord.
371, 8-19-46
   (A)   The applicant for such permit shall deposit a fee of ten dollars
($10.00) when making an application for a temporary driver's permit. The fee so
deposited is to cover the expenses incurred and no refund shall be made for any
reason. The applicant for a permit shall appear personally before the Police
Chief or his designee and file with him an application, in writing, upon blanks
to be furnished by the Police Chief.
   (B)   When an applicant has applied for a driver's permit and has paid the
fee for the permit, the Police Chief shall issue a temporary driver's permit.
The temporary driver's permit shall have written or printed thereon the
expiration date, and also the fact that the permit shall automatically become
null and void after the expiration date. After the expiration of the time so
allotted, the temporary permit shall be of no further force and effect and
shall not be renewed or extended.
5-4-11: INVESTIGATION OF APPLICANT:
At the time of the issuance of the temporary permit, the applicant for the
temporary permit shall be fingerprinted by, and his record filed in the Police
Department. The applicant for the temporary permit shall also file with the
Police Chief a copy of his driving record which he has obtained from the State
of California Department of Motor Vehicles. As soon as possible thereafter, the
Police Chief shall make an investigation regarding the character and moral
fitness and the driving history of the applicant. If satisfied that the
operation by the applicant of the vehicle authorized to be operated under the
terms of this Chapter will not be detrimental to the public health, safety or
welfare, the Police Chief shall upon the expiration of the applicant's
temporary driver's permit, issue the applicant a driver's permit in the manner
hereinafter provided. Otherwise, he shall deny the application. No such
driver's permit issued hereunder shall be transferable.
   (A)   No driver's permit or temporary driver's permit shall be issued to any
applicant who is under the age of eighteen (18) years, or who has, to the
knowledge of the Police Chief, been convicted of a felony, or of a misdemeanor
involving moral turpitude, or of serious California Vehicle Code violations,
such as negligent manslaughter and driving while under the influence of drugs
and/or alcohol or found to be a negligent driver by the State of California
Department of Motor Vehicles, or who does not possess a chauffeur's license of
the State.
   (B)   The Police Chief shall keep a copy of the driver's permit on file in
his office. The driver's permit shall constitute evidence of compliance with
the terms of this Chapter, but shall be subject to all other applicable laws,
or orders of the City. The driver's permit shall be effective until the
expiration date printed thereon unless suspended or revoked as herein provided.
   (C)   A driver's permit shall be effective for a period of six (6) months
from the date of issuance. Ten (10) days prior to the date of expiration of the
driver's permit the driver will file with the Police Chief a current copy of
his driving record which he has obtained from the State of California
Department of Motor Vehicles. Within the ten (10) day period prior to
expiration of the driver's permit the Police Chief shall review the driving
record report and renew the driver's permit, otherwise, he shall suspend or
revoke the driver's permit.
   (D)   At the time of application for a driver's permit, the applicant shall
provide to the Police Chief two (2) passport-size photographs suitable for
inclusion on the applicants temporary driver's permit and the driver's permit.
   (E)   At the time of issuance of the temporary driver's permit the Police
Chief shall cause to be prepared an identification badge to be worn by the
taxicab driver. This identification badge shall be inscribed with the name of
the person to whom the permit has been issued, the permit number, the date of
issuance of the permit, and the name of the taxicab company.
5-4-12: REVOCATION OF DRIVER'S PERMIT:
The Council or the Police Chief shall have the power to revoke or suspend any
driver's permit issued hereinunder if the driver or applicant has, since the
granting of a permit:
   (A)   Been convicted of a felony or a crime involving moral turpitude;
   (B)   Been convicted of reckless driving or driving while under the
influence of intoxicating liquor or narcotics;
   (C)   Has his State operator's or chauffeur's license revoked or suspended;
   (D)   Had two (2) or more convictions of speeding within any twelve (12)
month period; or
   (E)   Violated any of the provisions of this chapter.
In the event of such revocation or suspension of the driver's permit and such
certificate as may be issued in connection therewith, shall be, by the holder
thereof, immediately surrendered to the Police Chief. (Ord. 906, 12-19-88)
5-4-13: TAXICAB STANDS:
The Council shall designate in any stand permit granted by it, the exact
location of the stand in which the taxicab may park. No stand shall be wider
than twenty feet (20') on streets where parallel parking is required. Upon the
granting of a permit under this Chapter, every stand as designated by the
Council shall be designated by red paint or other red material upon the entire
curb surface with the word "Taxicabs Only" in white letters thereon. lt shall
be unlawful for any vehicle to occupy any regularly established taxi stand
unless the vehicle is one being operated by the owner to which the taxi stand
has been assigned.
5-4-14: TAXICAB STAND PERMIT FEE:
An application fee in the sum of ten dollars ($10.00) shall be required to be
paid for each stand or change of location thereof for which a permit is
applied. All application fees shall accompany the application. All permits
granted pursuant to this Section shall be nontransferable. When any permit is
granted hereunder, the Clerk shall issue to the grantee thereof a certificate,
giving the name and address of the grantee, the nature of the permit granted,
and the date when same was granted. (Ord. 371, 8-19-46)
5-4-15: CHANGES IN RATES OR VEHICLES TO BE REPORTED:
In the event that any permit holder desires to change his schedule of rates and
charges or the color scheme, monogram or insignia or illuminated status display
used on automobiles for hire or taxicabs, or to increase or decrease the number
of vehicles used by him as automobiles for hire or taxicabs, he shall make
application for permission to do so from the Clerk, which permission shall be
granted by the Council in its discretion if the Council deems the public
interest, necessity and convenience will be subserved by the change, and if the
permit holder has compiled with all provisions of this Chapter. (Ord. 906, 12-
19-88)
5-4-16: VEHICLES TO BE OPERATED BY OWNER:
Any motor vehicle for which a permit has been issued hereunder shall be
operated by the owner, personally, or his employee, on his behalf, and it shall
be unlawful for any owners or drivers to enter into any contract, agreement or
understanding between themselves by the terms of which the driver pays to, or
for the account of, the owner a fixed or determinable sum for the use of the
vehicle.
5-4-17: TRIP RECORDS TO BE KEPT:
The driver of every vehicle covered by this Chapter shall keep a complete and
accurate record of each trip upon a daily sheet, showing the time and place of
origin and destination of the trip, the number of passengers carried and the
amount of fare collected. This record shall be filed daily by the driver with
the company by whom he is employed; and the record shall be kept on a file
available for inspection by the Police Department for a period of not less than
six (6) months.
5-4-18: TAXICAB TO DISPLAY RATE SCHEDULE:
Every taxicab shall have displayed in a conspicuous place in the passenger
compartment thereof at all times a sign stating in clear legible characters the
rates of fares charged for carrying passengers therein, the owners name or the
fictitious name under which he operates, the business address and telephone
number of the owner and the license number furnished by the Clerk. The driver
of every chauffeured limousine shall have in his possession at all times rate
cards upon which shall be printed the name and address of the owner of the
vehicle and the rates authorized to be charged for the chauffeured limousine
service. Every person making inquiry regarding the rates charged by the
operator of the chauffeured limousine service shall be furnished with a copy of
the printed rates.
5-4-19: SCHEDULE OF FARES TO BE FURNISHED CITY:
All owners or operators of taxicabs and automobiles for hire shall file with
the Clerk reasonable and uniform tariffs or schedules of fares. It shall be
unlawful to charge, collect or receive any different compensation for the use
of the taxicab or automobile for hire than that specified in the tariff or
schedule of fares on file and at the time in effect. The tariffs and schedules
of fares shall not be amended except with the consent of the Council. (Ord.
371; 8-19-46)
5-4-20: LIABILITY INSURANCE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any owner or driver to drive or operate any taxicab or
automobile for hire, unless there is on file with the Clerk and in full force
and effect at all times while the taxicab or automobile for hire is being
operated, a true copy of a policy of insurance, approved by the Council, in a
solvent and responsible company with a B+ rating, insuring the owner of the
taxicab, or automobile for hire, giving the manufacturer's motor number and
serial number thereof, against loss by reason of injury or damage that may
result to persons or property from the negligent operation or defective
construction of the taxicab or automobile for hire, or from the violation of
this Chapter or of the laws of the State. The policy may be limited to one
hundred thousand dollars ($100,000.00) for injury or death of one person, and
to three hundred thousand dollars ($300,000.00) for the injury or death of two
(2) or more persons in the same accident, and to one hundred thousand dollars
($100,000.00) for injury or destruction of property. The policy of insurance
shall guarantee the payment to any and all persons suffering injury or
damage to person or property, of any final judgment rendered against the owner,
within the limits herein mentioned irrespective of the financial condition or
any acts or omissions of the owner and shall insure to the benefit of the
persons, if at any time, the policy of insurance shall be cancelled by the
company issuing the same, the Council shall require the owner to replace the
policy with another policy or bond as herein provided, satisfactory to the
Council, and in default thereof may revoke the owner's permit and license.
   WORKER'S COMPENSATION INSURANCE REQUIRED: The operator of the vehicle for
hire or taxicab employ any person to work for him, the operator shall file with
the Clerk a certificate of proof of worker's compensation insurance covering
all employees and that coverage is in compliance with the regulations set forth
by the State of California. In the event the owner is the sole operator and is
not required by law to carry worker's compensation insurance, a declaration to
that effect must be filed with the Clerk.
5-4-21: VEHICLES TO BE APPROVED BY POLICE CHIEF:
All taxicabs or automobiles for hire, shall, before being placed for service,
be inspected and approved by the Police Chief or his designee(s). After initial
approval and placement for service, each vehicle must be inspected and approved
by the Police Chief or his designee(s) on a quarterly basis or every three
months thereafter during which period the vehicle(s) is in service. All
vehicles shall at all times be kept in a clean, satisfactory and sanitary
condition and in a good state of repair or if in a condition of obsolescence
may be retired from service upon order of the Police Chief, and no vehicle
which has been so retired shall be again operated in such service except with
approval of the Police Chief.
In the event the condition of any vehicle shall, in the opinion of the Police
Chief or his designee(s) be so unclean or unsightly as to be undesirable for
use by the public, the Police Chief may require the vehicle to be immediately
withdrawn from service and the vehicle shall not be again placed in service
until approved by the Police Chief or his designee(s). (Ord 906, 12-19-88)
5-4-22: DUTIES OF DRIVERS:
Every driver of a taxicab who is engaged to carry passengers shall take the
most direct route possible that will carry the passengers safely and
expeditiously to their destination, unless otherwise directed by a passenger.
When a taxicab is engaged, the persons engaging the taxicab shall have the
exclusive right to the full and complete use of the passenger compartment and
it shall be unlawful for the driver of the taxicab to solicit or carry
additional passengers therein; provided, however, that where the Council finds
that public necessity requires the grouping of passengers in taxicabs, the
Council may issue after application special written permit, which permit shall
specifically set forth the rules and regulations under which passenger grouping
is permitted. lt shall be unlawful for any driver to operate any taxicab in
violation of any of the rules and regulations set forth in the special permit.
The number of passengers which may be carried in any vehicle covered by this
Chapter shall he limited to the seating capacity of the vehicle as specified by
the manufacturer. No person shall be carried in the vehicle who is required to
share in any way the seating space occupied by another, nor shall any person be
carried who is required to occupy any space in or on the vehicle which does not
provide a seat. (Ord. 371, 8-19-46)
Any person operating a taxicab shall wear the identification badge provided by
the Police Chief at all times of operation of the vehicle. All taxicabs and
automobiles for hire shall, while carrying passengers, come to a full stop
within thirty feet (30') of the nearest rail before crossing any railroad track
where no gates are maintained. No taxicab or automobile for hire shall be
operated by any person under the age of eighteen (18) years, or by any person
who does not have a chauffeur's license issued by the State or by any person
under the influence of intoxicating liquor and/or drugs, or by any person who
is for any reason whatsoever unable or incompetent to safely handle such
automobile, or by any person in violation of any law. (Ord. 906, 12-19-88)
5-4-23: OPERATION OF VEHICLE WITHOUT PROPER INSIGNIA PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful far any person to drive or operate any taxicab other than
one bearing the color scheme, name, monogram or insignia set forth ln the
application for the permit as herein provided. lt shall be unlawful for any
person to change the color scheme, name monogram or insignia without first
having obtained the consent of the Council. (Ord. 371, 8-19-46)
5-4-24: PERMIT HOLDERS SUBJECT TO APPLICABLE LAWS:
Every person holding a permit issued under the terms of this Chapter shall at
all times be subject to the laws of the State, the County and all provisions of
this Code not in conflict with this Chapter.
5-4-25: ENFORCEMENT OF PROVISIONS:
It shall be the duty of the Clerk and the Police Chief enforce, as applicable,
the provisions of this Chapter. (Ord. 906, 12-19-88)
5-4-26: REFUSAL TO PAY FARE:
It shall be unlawful for any person to refuse to pay the legal fare for the
hire of any automobile for hire or taxicab with the intent to defraud the
person from whom it is hired. (Ord. 371, 12-19-46)
CHAPTER 5
MOBILE HOME PARKS
SECTION:
5-5-1: Adoption of State of California Mobile Home Parks Act
5-5-2: Keeping Mobile Homes or Travel Trailers on Private Residential Lots
5-5-1: ADOPTION OF STATE OF CALIFORNIA MOBILE HOME PARKS ACT:
The City does hereby adopt all of the provisions of the Health and Safety Code
of the State of California, Division 13, Part 2.1 and titled "Mobile Home Parks
Act" as those provisions to be enforced within the City. (Ord. 675, 8-17-70,
eff. 9-17-70)
5-5-2: KEEPING MOBILE HOMES OR TRAVEL TRAILERS ON PRIVATE RESIDENTIAL LOTS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to use, occupy or maintain for living
purposes a travel trailer or mobile home on any area or tract of land in the
City zoned for residential or commercial purposes unless the travel trailer or
mobile home is located upon or in an area designated as a mobile home park, and
which mobile home park has a permit from the City to operate in accordance with
the terms and conditions of this Chapter.
A temporary, special permit for the use or maintenance of a mobile home for
living purposes on a private lot during the construction period of a dwelling
on the lot may be granted by the Council on recommendation of the Building
Department if the applicant can present sufficient proof, substantiated by the
Building Department, that the construction period of the house is necessarily
longer than the stipulated six (6) month period. No further extension may be
granted. (Ord. 791, 7-3-78)
CHAPTER 5.5
MOBILE HOME RENT STABILIZATION
SECTION:
5-5.5-1: Statement And Purpose
5-5.5-2: Definitions
5-5.5-3: Exemptions
5-5.5-4: Permitted Base Rent Increases Or Adjustments
5-5.5-5: Space Rent Increases For Capital Expenses
5-5.5-6: Petition By Tenants
5-5.5-7: Petition Council Hearing
5-5.5-8: Standards Of Review
5-5.5-1: STATEMENT AND PURPOSE:
Mobile Homes in the state are exempt from California Rent Control Laws, making
rent stabilization a "local control issue." Mobile Home tenants, unlike
apartment tenants or residents of rental units, are in the unique position of
having made a substantial investment in a residence where their space is rented
or leased. Because mobile homes are often owned by senior citizens, persons on
fixed incomes, and persons of low and moderate income, exorbitant or frequent
rent increases may cause these individuals undue financial hardships.
The purpose of a rent stabilization ordinance is to prevent excessive rent
increases and exploitation of the City's current mobile home inventory while
maintaining the opportunity for mobile home park owners to receive a fair and
reasonable return on their investment. The City's research identified the
difficulties senior residents have in making increased payments while being on
fixed incomes, the lack of disclosure of justification for mobile home rent
increases, and the established rent stabilization ordinances that other
comparable jurisdictions have implemented. The Council finds and declares it
necessary to protect the owners and occupiers of mobile homes from unreasonable
rent increases while at the same time recognizing the need for mobile home park
owners to receive a fair return on their investment and rental increases
sufficient to cover the increased costs of repairs, maintenance, insurance,
upkeep, and additional amenities. (Ord. 2024-5, 6-17-2024)
5-5.5-2: DEFINITIONS:
The following words and phrases when used in this chapter shall for the purpose
of this chapter have the meanings respectively ascribed to them in this
section:
AFFECTED TENANTS: All tenants in a mobile home park who have been notified that
a space rent increase is to become effective within the following twelve (12)
months.
BASE RENT: The rent charged for a mobile home space on the effective date of
this chapter; or rent charged for a space immediately following the transfer of
ownership, vacancy due to eviction, vacancy due to a move off, or subsequent
transfers of ownership; or the initial rent charged for a newly created space
within an existing mobile home park "Base Rent" shall not include:
   1.   Utility charges for sub-metered gas and electricity.
   2.   Capital Expenses authorized under Section
5-5.5-5.
   3.   Charges for water, refuse disposal, sewer service, and/or other
services which are either provided and charged to mobile home residents solely
on a cost pass-through basis and/or are regulated by state or local law.
   4.   Any amount paid for the use and occupancy of a mobile home unit (as
opposed to amounts paid for the use and occupancy of a mobile home space).
   5.   Charges for laundry services.
   6.   Storage charges.
CAPITAL EXPENSE: A capital replacement of existing facilities or capital
improvements, does not exceed ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00) at the time of
the effective date of this Chapter and in subsequent years is annually adjusted
at the same percentage rate as Base Rent, that materially add to the value of
the property, have an expected life of more than one year, and is located
within the geographic boundaries of a mobile home park, or outside such
boundaries but which are directly and primarily for the benefit of the park.
Capital expenses shall be amortized over the useful life of the improvements of
the building pursuant to the straight-line depreciation provisions of the
Internal Revenue Code, and the regulations issued pursuant thereto. Examples of
a capital expense are, but are not necessarily limited to, resurfacing of
existing park roadways or replacing underground pipe systems within the park.
CITY: The City of Selma.
CONSUMER PRICE INDEX: All items for the West Region for all-urban consumers as
reported by the Bureau of Labor Statistics of the United States Department of
Labor.
LANDLORD: The mobile home park owner.
LEASE: A written agreement between a landlord and a mobile home tenant for the
use and occupancy of a rental space to the exclusion of others, and consistent
with the provisions under Section
5-5.5-3(C).
MAINTENANCE AND OPERATION EXPENSES: All expenses incurred in the operation and
maintenance of the mobile home park, but excludes costs identified as exempt
from Base Rent Increases in Section
5-5.5-4(E).
MOBILE HOME: A structure transportable in one or more sections, designed and
equipped to contain not more than one dwelling unit, and to be used with or
without a foundation system.
MOBILE HOME PARK: Any parcel (or two (2) or more contiguous parcels) within the
City of Selma where ten (10) or more mobile home spaces are rented or leased
for the purpose to accommodate mobile homes used for human habitation.
MOBILE HOME SPACE AND/OR LOT: A portion of a mobile home park designed or used
for the occupancy of one mobile home.
OPERATING EXPENSES: Those operating expenses paid by the owner as described in
Section
5-5.5-8(A)
PARK OWNER and/or OWNER: The mobile home park owner(s).
RENTAL AGREEMENT: A lease, which is consistent with the provisions as stated
under Section
5-5.5-3.
RENT INCREASE: Any additional amount demanded of or paid by a tenant in excess
of the rent paid for the mobile home space immediately prior to such demand or
payment.
SPACE RENT: Any consideration required for the use and occupancy of a mobile
home space in a park including all amenities, utilities, services, and
benefits.
SUBSTANTIAL REHABILITATION: Work done by an owner to a mobile home space or to
the common area of the mobile home park, exclusive of a capital improvement (as
defined within this chapter), the value of which exceeds five hundred dollars
($500.00) which are performed either to secure compliance with any state or
local law or to repair damage resulting from fire, earthquake, or other
casualty or natural disaster, to the extent such work is not reimbursed by
insurance or security deposit proceeds.
TENANT: A tenant, subtenant, lessee, sublessee, or any other person entitled to
the use or occupancy of any mobile home space under a rental agreement, lease,
or other expression of tenancy. (Ord. 2024-5, 6-17-2024)
5-5.5-4: EXEMPTIONS:
The provisions of this section shall not apply to rent or rent increases for
new mobile home parks created after the effective date of this chapter or new
individual lots created (above the current number of total spaces within an
existing park as of the effective date of this chapter) for a period of twelve
(12) months.
   (A)   The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to rent or rent
increases for new and/or relocated mobile homes placed on vacated lots for a
period of twelve (12) months following the first day the lot is re-occupied.
   (B)   The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to any mobile home lot
that is under a lease, voluntarily entered into between a landlord and a mobile
home tenant where the lease meets all of the following criteria:
      1.   The lease was entered into on or after the effective date of this
chapter;
      2.   The term of the lease is in excess of a thirty-six (36) month
duration;
      3.   The mobile home lot which is under the lease is used for the
personal and actual residence of the mobile home tenant;
      4.   The first paragraph of the lease contains a provision notifying the
mobile home tenant that the mobile home lot will be exempt from the provisions
of this chapter; and
      5.   This exclusion shall apply only for the duration of the term of the
lease and any uninterrupted, continuous extensions thereof. If the term of the
lease is not extended and no new rental agreement meeting the above stated
criteria is entered into, this chapter shall immediately become applicable to
the mobile home lot and the last rental rate charged for the lot under the
immediately preceding rental agreement shall be the rent for the purposes of
determining the base rent under this chapter.
   (C)   The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to mobile home lots,
for a period of twelve (12) months, immediately following:
      1.   The transfer of ownership after the effective date of this chapter;
      2.   For any subsequent transfers occurring after the effective date of
this chapter; and
      3.   A vacancy occurring because the prior mobile home tenant was evicted
for nonpayment of rent, issuance by the tenant of checks drawn against
insufficient funds or closed accounts, chronically late payment of rent, the
tenant's commission of waste upon the mobile home and/or lot, the tenant's
total disregard for maintenance, the tenant's commission or permitting of a
nuisance on the premises, the tenant's use of the premises for an unlawful
purpose, or other material violation of a reasonable provision of a written
rental agreement.
   (D)   The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to mobile home lots
that are exempt through State Law exemptions such as Civil Code Section 798.45
and Section 798 et seq. or owned by any Government Agencies.
   (E)   The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to a mobile home park
that has entered into a Memorandum of Understanding or other Agreement with the
City of Selma for enforcement of rent stabilization provisions consistent or
more restrictive with the limits established in Section
5-5.5-4. (Ord. 2024-5, 6-17-2024)
5-5.5-4: PERMITTED BASE RENT INCREASES OR ADJUSTMENTS:
Any base rent increase proposed to take effect on or after the effective date
of the ordinance codified in this chapter, shall be subject to this chapter.
   (A)   Base Rent may be increased to an amount equal to the rent in effect of
that current year, adjusted by seventy-five percent (75%) of the increase in
the percentage increase in the Consumer Price Index, West Region (CPI), of that
year or by three percent (3%), whichever is less.
   (B)   A 100-day advance written notice of rent increase shall be provided to
the tenants. All rent increase notices shall be given to the tenants on the
same day each calendar year and subsequent years.
   (C)   A park owner shall not demand, accept or retain rent for a mobile home
space exceeding the rent in effect on the effective date of this chapter,
except as provided in this chapter.
   (D)   Base Rent increases shall not be increased more than once in any
twelve (12) month period.
   (E)   Base Rent increases shall only apply to the base rent for the mobile
home space. Annual Government Costs which could include municipal utilities,
general property taxes, special property assessments, and governmental
regulatory, processing or permitting fees, shall not be calculated within the
rent stabilization methodology but shall be itemized for informational purposes
to tenants.
   (F)   Any base rent increase (within any twelve (12) month period) which
exceeds the maximum permitted under (
5-5.5-4(A)) may be challenged to a formal petition hearing under the provisions
of section
5-5.5-6.
      1.   Any rent increases exceeding the base rent in effect of that current
year and are subject to a formal hearing may not become effective or be
collected by the landlord until such time that the increase increment is
approved under a formal petition hearing. (Ord. 2024-5, 6-17-2024)
5-5.5-5: SPACE RENT INCREASES FOR CAPITAL EXPENSES:
   (A)   A park owner may obtain a pass-through of a capital expense under this
section. Any capital expense shall be identified separately and listed on rent
statements along with their date of expiration. The owner may request recovery
of the cost of materials, labor, construction, interest, and permit fees. All
improvements, replacements, or rehabilitations shall have been approved in
advance by the majority of the park tenants, and the cost of such items is
fully amortized over the useful life of the improvement.
   (B)   New Capital Expenses: Capital Expenses that did not previously exist
in the park shall be deemed "new capital expenses" unless the park owner is
required by law to make the capital expenses. A park owner may charge each
affected mobile home tenant as additional rent the pro rata share of new
service and capital expenses including financing costs subject to the following
preconditions:
      1.   Prior to initiating the service or incurring the capital expense,
the park owner must consult with the mobile home tenants regarding the nature
and purpose of the improvements and the estimated cost of the improvement.
      2.   Protest in writing by a majority of the tenants (fifty percent (50%)
or more) of the occupied spaces within the park is not received. Tenants that
do not submit a protest in writing shall be counted as an affirmative vote in
favor of the capital expense proposed;
   (C)   All new fees must be noticed sixty (60) days prior to initiation and
be itemized on the resident's bill prior to collection of fees. If the fee or
charge has a limited duration or is amortized for a specified period, the
expiration date shall be stated on the initial notice and each subsequent
billing to the tenants while the fee or charge is billed to the tenant
(California Civil Code §798.32(a) of the Mobilehome Residency Law (MRL). (Ord.
2024-5, 6-17-2024)
5-5.5-6: PETITION BY TENANTS:
   (A)   Any mobile home tenant who will be or has been subjected to a proposed
rental increase may file a petition and concurrent response. The petition shall
be signed by more than fifty (50%) of the tenants affected by the rent
increase. The petition shall be submitted at least forty (40) days prior to
when such an increase would otherwise take effect. A submitted petition to the
City shall contain the following terms to consider an official petition
submittal.
      An official Petition submittal must contain the following.
      1.   Clear and concise terms why, in the petitioner's opinion, the rent
increase is not justified under the ordinance. Reference to the specific
ordinance in violation must be identified.
      2.   The printed names of all affected mobile home tenants with their
respective space number denoted and original petition signatures, with the date
of signature.
      3.   The total numbers of mobile home rental spaces within the park; and
      4.   The name, address and space number, and telephone number of the
tenants or the tenant's representative filing the petition.
   (B)   Receipt Of The Petition:
      1.   Upon receipt of a completed and official petition by tenants, as
specified under subsection
5-5.5-4(A), the Community Development Department shall set a date for the next
available city council meeting no sooner than ten (10) days nor later than
thirty (30) days after the receipt of the completed petition.
      2.   A notice shall be sent to all affected parties via first class mail
by City staff. The notice shall display the date, time, and place of the
hearing.
   (C)   In the event a petition fails to meet all the submittal requirements
listed in Section
5-5.5-6(A), City staff shall respond with a statement of the listed
deficiencies, within the next ten (10) days. The party filing the petition
shall have fifteen (15) days to correct and refile the appeal. If the applicant
(s) fail to meet the time limitation the petition shall be deemed to have been
abandoned. (Ord. 2024-5, 6-17-2024)
5-5.5-7: PETITION COUNCIL HEARING:
   (A)   The purpose of the hearing shall be to allow the two (2) parties the
opportunity to present their differences concerning the proposed rent increase
and settle them in a final manner.
   (B)   The park owner shall provide clear and concise terms why, in the park
owner's opinion, the rent increase is justified under the ordinance section
5-5.5-8. Reference of the specific ordinance must be identified.
   (C)   Both the park owner and the affected tenants may appear at the City
Council hearing and offer oral and/or documentary evidence. Both the park owner
and the affected tenants may designate a representative to appear for them at
the hearing.
   (D)   The City Council shall use the standards of review outlined under
Section
5-5.5-8 for the hearing proceedings.
   (E)   If City Council determines that the proposed space rent increase is
not reasonable under the circumstances, then that portion of the proposed space
rent increase that exceeds the amount allowed under Section 5-5.5-4(A) shall be
suspended and the base rent going forward shall be defaulted to seventy five
(75%) of the percentage increase in the Consumer Price Index, West Region
(CPI), of that year or by three percent (3%), whichever is less.
   (F)   If the City Council Determines that all or a portion of the proposed
rent increase is reasonable under the circumstances, then City Council shall
grant all or such portion of the rent increase to be effective as of the time
such increase would have been otherwise effective without the intervention of
this chapter.
   (G)   The decision of the City Council is final and binding upon the owner
and all affected tenants. Any party disputing the final decision and findings
of the City Council may seek review of the arbitrator's actions pursuant to
Sections 1094.5 and 1094.6 of the California Code of Civil Procedures. (Ord.
2024-5, 6-17-2024)
5-5.5-8: STANDARDS OF REVIEW:
In evaluating any proposed space rent increase, that exceeds the maximum
permitted under Section
5-5.5-4(A), the following factors should be considered by City Council:
   (A)   Unavoidable increases in maintenance and/or operating expenses,
including but not limited to the reasonable value of:
      1.   The owner's and/or landlord's labor,
      2.   Any caretaker's labor;
   (B)   The physical condition of the mobile home park and the amenities
provided for each individual space, including the quantity and quality of
maintenance and repairs performed during the preceding twelve (12) months;
   (C)   Substantial rehabilitation work that has been completed;
   (D)   Capital expenses that have been added, as long as such work is:
      1.   Distinguished from ordinary repair and maintenance;
      2.   A majority of the tenants (fifty percent (50%) or more) of the
occupied spaces within the park have protested the proposed expense.
      3.   Permanently fixed in place or relatively immobile and appropriate to
the use of the property;
      4.   Cost factored must be averaged on a per space basis and amortized
over the good faith estimate of the remaining useful life of the improvement
and distributed among;
      5.   Not coin-operated nor one for which a "use fee" or other charge is
imposed on the tenants for its use;
      6.   Does not include depreciation expenses as an operating expense in
the calculation of expenses.
   (E)   A fair and reasonable rate of return on the owner's investment in the
park, and other financial information that the park owner is willing to
provide. (Ord. 2024-5, 6-17-2024)
 
CHAPTER 6
AMUSEMENT MACHINES
SECTION:
5-6-1: Definitions
5-6-2: License Required
5-6-3: Application for License; Investigation
5-6-4: License Fee
5-6-5: Operating Without License; Seizure; Redemption
5-6-6: Unredeemed Machines; Sale or Destruction
5-6-7: Operation With Other Business No Exemption
5-6-1: DEFINITIONS:
Whenever the following words or terms are used in this Chapter, they shall have
the meanings herein ascribed to them:
   AMUSEMENT MACHINE: The term "amusement machine" shall mean any sport pastime
played or operated with cards, dice, balls, pins, checkers, counters, quoits,
benas, spindles, tables, wheels, or any other device, contrivance, or apparatus
or any combination thereof, which machines are operated by inserting therein a
coin or by payment of a valuable consideration.
   PHONOGRAPH MACHINE: The term "phonograph machine" shall mean any machine or
device playing phonograph records reproducing voice, music, or sound, which
machine or device is operated by inserting therein a coin or by payment of a
valuable consideration.
5-6-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to conduct, operate or carry on the
business of any amusement machine or phonograph machine without first having
obtained a license therefor from the Clerk.
5-6-3: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE; INVESTIGATION:
Every person desiring to conduct, operate or carry on the business of one or
more amusement machines or phonograph machines shall make written application
to the Clerk for a license so to do on forms to be provided by the Clerk. The
Clerk shall not issue any license for any amusement machine until he has made
an investigation concerning the legality of the amusement machine and finds the
machine to be legal. (Ord. 389, 3-1-48)
5-6-4: LICENSE FEE:
Every person who engages in the business of owning, leasing, renting and or
operating coin-operated amusement vending machines at a fixed place of business
within the City shall pay a license fee as set forth in Section
5-1-34. (Ord. 891, 3-2-87, eff. 7-1-87)
5-6-5: OPERATING WITHOUT LICENSE; SEIZURE; REDEMPTION:
Any amusement machine or phonograph machine which is operated in the City
without a license shall be seized and held by any authorized officer of the
City and may be redeemed only by the owner paying the reasonable value of the
storage and safekeeping of the machine together with a license fee for the
period during which the machine was operated without a license, and the
redemption must be made within sixty (60) days after the seizure of the
machine.
5-6-6: UNREDEEMED MACHINES; SALE OR DESTRUCTION:
In the event that any amusement machine or phonograph machine seized for
nonpayment of license fee shall not be redeemed as herein provided, the machine
shall be sold or destroyed by the Clerk, and if sold, the money received from
the sale thereof shall be deposited in the Treasury.
5-6-7: OPERATION WITH OTHER BUSINESS NO EXEMPTION:
The license fees provided for herein shall be paid whether the amusement
machine or phonograph machine is operated in connection with any other business
or not. (Ord. 389, 3-1-48)
CHAPTER 7
SPECIAL EVENTS AND VENDING REGULATIONS
SECTION:
5-7-1: Applicability
5-7-2: Definitions
5-7-3: Special Event Permit - Application - Information Required - Timing
5-7-4: Permits - Standards For Issuance Or Denial - Notification
5-7-5: Appeals
5-7-6: Renewals
5-7-7: Regulations For Dispensing Alcohol At A Special Event
5-7-8: Business License
5-7-9: Health And Sanitation Requirements
5-7-10: Vendor Permit To Operate
5-7-11: Operational Requirements
5-7-12: Additional Rules For Sidewalk Vendors
5-7-13: Additional Rules For Vending In Parks
5-7-14: Food Truck Vendor Operational Requirements
5-7-15: Additional Rules For Food Truck Vendors On Public Rights-Of-Way
5-7-16: Additional Rules For Food Truck Vendors On Private Property
5-7-17:   Supplemental Regulations
5-7-18:   Violations
5-7-19:   Special Event Fee Reduction And Waiver Regulations
5-7-1: APPLICABILITY:
   (A)   This chapter regulates special events as defined herein. No person
shall conduct any special event without first obtaining a permit as provided in
this chapter.
   (B)   Issuance of a permit under this chapter does not exempt the permittee
from, or constitute compliance with:
      1.   Local, state or federal laws regulating service or consumption of
food or alcoholic beverages, the erection of temporary structures, the erection
of amusement rides, or obtaining additional permits prescribed by law;
      2.   Any other applicable local, state or federal law.
   (C)   This chapter does not apply to:
      1.   Events on city-owned property that are operated solely by the City
of Selma, or;
      2.   Where an agreement has been approved by the City Council for events
on city-owned property where the City of Selma is a participant or co-sponsor.
(Ord. 2023-4, 8-7-2023)
5-7-2: DEFINITIONS:
For purposes of this chapter, the following definitions apply:
ANNUAL PERMIT: A permit to vend lasting one calendar year unless otherwise
provided by this chapter.
CITY: The City of Selma.
CITY SPECIAL EVENT: Any outdoor public event utilizing public areas, including
streets and parking lots temporarily closed by the City Council and which event
has been declared a special event by resolution of the City Council.
CODE: Selma Municipal Code and all codes incorporated therein by reference.
DAYS: Calendar days unless otherwise specified.
FOOD: Shall be as defined in Health and Safety Code Section 113781 or any
successor provision.
FOOD FACILITY: Shall be as defined in Health and Safety Code Section 113789 or
any successor provision.
FOOD TRUCK or FOOD TRUCK VENDOR: A mobile food facility as defined in Health
and Safety Code Section 113831 or any successor provision and any vehicle as
defined in Section 670 of the California Vehicle Code, which is equipped and
used for retail sales of prepared, prepackaged, or unprepared food or
foodstuffs of any kind that parks at one or more locations within the City. A
food truck shall also include any trailer or wagon equipped and used as
described in this definition and pulled by a vehicle.
HAND WASHING FACILITY: A facility providing either a basin, container, or
outlet with an adequate supply of potable water, soap, and single-use towels,
as further defined in Health and Safety Code Section 114359.
HEALTH OFFICER: Shall be as defined in Health and Safety Code Section 111015.
LOCATION: The area within a one-hundred-foot (100') radius of the vendor's
position.
MERCHANDISE: Commodities or goods that are bought and sold.
MOBILE FOOD FACILITY: Shall be as defined in Health and Safety Code Section
113831 or any successor provision.
PEDDLER: Shall mean and include every person not having a regularly established
place of business in the City who travels from place to place or has a stand
upon any public street, alley, or other place, doorway of any room or building,
unenclosed or vacant lot, or parcel of land and who sells or offers for sale
any foodstuffs, goods, wares, merchandise, or articles of personal property in
his possession.
PERMITTEE: Any person or organization to whom the city has applied for or been
issued a special event, vendor, or food truck permit.
POLICE CHIEF: The Police Chief for the City of Selma or his/her designee.
ROAMING SIDEWALK VENDOR: A sidewalk vendor selling, offering for sale, or
distributing food or merchandise on a public sidewalk continuously moving
except when making a sale.
SIDEWALK VENDOR: A person who sells food or merchandise from a pushcart, stand,
display, pedal-driven cart, wagon, showcase, rack, bicycle or other
nonmotorized conveyance, or from one's person, upon a public sidewalk or other
pedestrian path.
SINGLE EVENT PERMIT: A vending permit valid for a specific amount of time not
to exceed thirty (30) continuous days.
SPECIAL EVENT: Any activity on public or private property that, due to the
anticipated amount of attendees or the nature of the event, is not compatible
with the generally intended use of the property for which it is proposed and is
characterized by any of the following:
   (1)   Requires city services to ensure compliance with state or local laws;
for example, temporary ABC licenses, or temporary structure permits;
   (2)   Involves use of city-owned or managed property such as public streets,
sidewalks, parking lots, plazas or other city owned or managed open spaces;
   (3)   Involves closure, or partial closure, of any public right-of-way, or
requires traffic control;
   (4)   Impairs emergency vehicle access or requires the attendance of
emergency personnel at the event; or
   (5)   Allows for attendance by the general public and is not by invitation-
only; or
   (6)   Results in impacts to adjacent public or private property because of,
for example, the use of live or amplified entertainment or the anticipated
impacts on parking. Uses that are already permitted under the zoning ordinance,
such as, but not limited to, nightclubs, banquet facilities, and assembly
halls, are not included in the definition of special event, unless the impact
of an event is greater than the impact anticipated under the permitted zoning
or other approved permit or entitlement.
STATIONARY SIDEWALK VENDOR: A sidewalk vendor selling, offering for sale, or
distributing food or merchandise on a public sidewalk in one location as
provided by permit.
TOILET FACILITY: A fixture maintained with a toilet room for the purpose of
defecation or urination or both, as further defined in Health and Safety Code
Section 114359.
VEHICLE: A mobile food facility, catering truck, or other motorized conveyance
upon which food or merchandise is sold, offered for sale or distributed.
VEND or VENDING: To offer for sale or distribution.
VENDOR: Shall include peddler, roaming sidewalk vendor, sidewalk vendor,
stationary sidewalk vendor.
VENDOR PERMIT or VENDING PERMIT or PERMIT: The permit issued to vendors
pursuant to this chapter.
(Ord. 2023-4, 8-7-2023)
5-7-3: SPECIAL EVENT PERMIT - APPLICATION - INFORMATION REQUIRED - TIMING:
   (A)   An application of a special event permit shall be made at least ninety
(90) days prior to the special event. The City Manager or designee may
authorize an application for a special event permit forty five (45) days prior
to the special event if the event does not require closure of a public right-
of-way, will not require the diversion of regularly assigned public safety
personnel, and does not negatively impact emergency access, parking or traffic
in the surrounding area.
      1.   If determined by the Police Chief that a road closure impacts public
safety, the closure must be approved by the City Council prior to the event.
   (B)   A preliminary analysis of an application for a special event permit
will be provided to the applicant within ten (10) working days following the
submittal of a completed application for those applications submitted ninety
(90) days prior to the special event.
   (C)   The application for a special event permit shall be made in writing on
a form approved and provided by the City. To ensure that adequate arrangements
may be made for proper regulation of the special event, the application shall
contain the following information, as applicable:
      1.   The name, address and telephone number of the applicant(s). If the
special event will be conducted for, on behalf of, or by an organization(s),
the name, address, telephone number of the authorized head of such organization
and the names and addresses of the executive officers of such organization;
      2.   The location of the special event that will be conducted by, for or
on behalf of an applicant(s); and
      3.   The name, address, telephone number and signature of the property
owner(s) on whose property the event will be conducted, unless the property is
owned by the city;
      4.   The name, address and telephone number of all persons who are or
will be responsible for the promotion and conduct of the special event,
including a photo identification of each and effective means by which to reach
them during the event, such as cell phone and pager numbers, and likely
location of each responsible person during the special event;
      5.   A description of the special event, including its purpose and, as
far as is reasonably practicable, the number of people expected to attend.
These requirements are intended to allow the city to anticipate and provide for
additional city services, if necessary, to protect the safety of participants
and bystanders;
      6.   The date(s) of the event, including assembly and disassembly
involving the use of public property;
      7.   The estimated times that the special event will start and terminate,
including assembly and disassembly involving the use of public property;
      8.   For special events occurring in the public right-of-way, the
locations or route of the assembly and dispersal areas, a description of
traffic control measures to be provided at the sole cost of the permittee, the
maximum length of the use of the public right-of-way at any given time, and
whether the special event will occupy all or only a portion of the public
rights-of-way proposed to be traveled upon;
      9.   The number and kind of vehicles, animals, tents, structures, stages,
musical instruments, sound units, and any other equipment, including equipment
that produces sound or noise during the special event and whether amplified
sound is proposed to be used. In the event the applicant seeks a temporary food
permit, a temporary liquor license or a temporary structure permit, the
application should be accompanied by copies of the applications for such
permits or licenses;
      10.   Maximum size of any material used for any signs or banners;
      11.   A site plan identifying the location of all structures and
activities planned for the special event. If outdoor cooking is proposed, the
location, type of appliance and type of fuel, shall also be identified;
      12.   The number and location of portable sanitation facilities, garbage
and recycling services, and other equipment and services proposed for
participants, if applicable;
      13.   A description of arrangements that have been made for first aid, or
emergency medical services, or both, if applicable;
      14.   A description of arrangements that have been made for security,
including the name and telephone number of the lead contact person for the
security contractor;
      15.   Insurance information and documentation;
      16.   An application fee and deposit, if any, as prescribed by resolution
adopted by the city council;
      17.   A parking plan that is designed to minimize negative impacts of the
event parking on adjacent properties. Negative impacts include, but are not
limited to, illegal parking, increased traffic congestion, and event parking
that precludes parking for neighboring land uses. If the city finds that
significant negative impacts are likely to occur due to the location, size and
nature of the event and the availability of parking, an adequate parking plan
may be required to include, but not be limited to, the following:
         (a)   Proof that adjacent property owners affected by the closure were
notified of event (Good Neighbor Policy);
         (b)   Proof that the adjacent property owners whose property is
proposed for event parking have granted permission for event attendees to park
on their property;
         (c)   Adequate parking attendants;
         (d)   Adequate disabled parking;
         (e)   Adequate publicity and signage to direct event attendees to
available parking;
         (f)   Other efforts to provide shuttle services to and from the event
site, and/or to provide information on alternative transportation such as
carpooling or public transit.
      18.   Such other information, in conformity with this chapter, as the
City Manager may reasonably require.
   (D)   Any failure to submit the information required in this section and as
deemed necessary by the permittee, at least fifteen (15) business days before
the start of said event, will subject the applicant to a late fee, in an amount
set by resolution of the City Council.
   (E)   Late Applications: Any application received after the deadlines
established in this Chapter is a late application and is subject to a late fee,
in an amount set by resolution of the City Council. The City Manager shall not
accept late applications unless the City Manager finds that:
      1.   The proposed special event is in response to an occurrence whose
timing did not reasonably allow the applicant to file a timely application; and
      2.   The imposition of the time limitations would place an unreasonable
restriction on the free speech rights of the applicant.
      3.   Other unforeseen circumstances may have prevented the applicant from
applying within the established timeline.
   (F)   When the City Manager or designee finds one or more of the above
conditions to exist, the City Manager or designee may consider acceptance of
the application and process it in accordance with this chapter unless it does
not meet the criteria set forth in this Chapter, or there is insufficient time
for the City to make the necessary preparations for public safety matters prior
to the proposed date and time of the special event.
(Ord. 2023-4, 8-7-2023)
5-7-4: PERMITS - STANDARDS FOR ISSUANCE OR DENIAL - NOTIFICATION:
   (A)   The City Manager shall issue a permit for a special event unless he or
she determines that one or more of the following conditions exist:
      1.   The application is incomplete for failure to provide the information
required by this Chapter;
      2.   The applicant has not tendered the required application fee,
deposit, or insurance certificate and endorsement(s), unless such tender has
been waived as set forth in this chapter;
      3.   The information contained in the application, including supplemental
information provided if any, is found to be false in any material respect, the
purpose of the event is contrary to law, and/or the applicant has failed to
meet the City requirements for a permit;
      4.   A special event permit has been issued and/or a prior application
for a special event has been received for an event to be held at the same time
and place;
      5.   The special event will unduly interfere with vehicular ingress to,
egress from, or travel on a freeway, state designated highway, or major
arterial collector street of the City;
      6.   The special event will unreasonably interfere with fire or police
protection, including presenting a substantial traffic or safety hazard;
      The special event will not exceed the maximum number of events allowed
for an identified period at any City facility, as established by the City
Council;
      7.   Event sizes or durations will require diversion of so great an
amount of City safety services, it would divert an undue amount of resources
from other City needs, particularly of safety services to other areas of the
City;
      8.   The security arrangements that have been made are inadequate;
      9.   One or more of the applicants or persons whose name is shown on the
application was also named on an application for a special event that resulted
in a violation of this chapter or similar law in another jurisdiction within
the twelve (12) months preceding the current application;
      10.   The special event is deemed to have adverse impacts to a
residential area;
      11.   If the special event is proposed to be held on public property, the
proposed special event would conflict with a previously scheduled and planned
event or activity organized by the city for the same time and place as the
proposed special event; however the event may be approved to allow established
or recurring events that were previously held successfully in the city or to
events that may have significant beneficial economic, public health, safety, or
other impacts to the city;
      12.   The applicant, or person named in the application, or the
organization on whose behalf the application is submitted has, on prior
occasions, damaged city property and has not paid in full for such damages, or
has other outstanding and unpaid debts to the city;
      13.   The applicant is legally incompetent to contract or to sue and be
sued;
      14.   The applicant fails or refuses to comply with any permitting
requirements or conditions of approval.
   (B)   The applicant shall be notified in writing of the action by the City
Manager with respect to the application as early as possible but no less than
five working days prior to the date of the proposed special event, unless the
application was made late, in which case notification shall be given as soon as
reasonably possible and by any reasonable means.
   (C)   Notwithstanding any provisions of this chapter, should the City
Manager determine that prior special events organized, sponsored or conducted
by the applicant or persons whose name is shown on the application have
resulted in damages to property, unpaid debts or late payments, complaints from
a substantial number of area residents or businesses about the impact of prior
events, or unreasonable risks to public safety, the city manager may require,
as a condition of approval, that the applicant engage a professional event
organizer to organize the special event.
   (D)   Nothing herein authorizes the denial of a special event permit because
of the need to protect participants from the conduct of others, if reasonable
permit conditions can be imposed to allow adequate protection with the number
of police officers available to police the special event.
   (E)   If the permit is denied, or approved with conditions, the written
notice shall set forth reasons explaining the denial or the imposition of
conditions.
   (F)   If a permit is denied pursuant to the criteria set forth in this
chapter because the proposed time or assembly and dispersal sites are
unacceptable, the denial shall contain a statement of alternative acceptable
times and sites.
(Ord. 2023-4, 8-7-2023)
5-7-5: APPEALS:
   (A)   An applicant may appeal the denial of an application or permit
conditions made pursuant to this chapter by a designee of the City Manager to
the City Manager within three (3) working days of receiving the notice. The
City Manager shall act upon said appeal promptly but in no event later than the
date and time of the proposed special event. If the decision to deny the
special event permit was made by the City Manager, that decision shall be
final.
(Ord. 2023-4, 8-7-2023)
5-7-6: RENEWALS:
   (A)   A permittee that wishes to apply for the same event in a subsequent
year may apply for a renewal of a special event permit if there are no changes
in the information provided from the previous year and no incidents were
reported that would result in revocation or suspension of the special event
permit under section 5-7-18.
(Ord. 2023-4, 8-7-2023)
5-7-7: REGULATIONS FOR DISPENSING ALCOHOL AT A SPECIAL EVENT:
   (A)   All alcohol must be sold and consumed within a venue that is
physically separated by a physical barrier, such as, but limited to, barricades
or fencing (ABC license type will dictate the size and type of barrier).
   (B)   If the alcohol area is accessible to all ages, anyone wishing to
purchase or consume alcohol must present a current ID, and if that attendee is
twenty one (21) years of age or older, they must be issued a non-transferrable
wristband.
   (C)   All attendees must present their wristband to be served or consume
alcohol.
   (D)   Servers must be twenty one (21) years of age or older.
   (E)   Servers may not consume alcoholic beverages while serving.
   (F)   Attendees may be served no more than two (2) standard drinks at a
time. The City defines one standard drink size as:
      1.   Twelve (12) ounces beer;
      2.   Five (5) ounces wine;
      3.   One (1) ounce distilled spirit/hard alcohol in a mixed drink.
   (G)   Shots are not permitted.
   (H)   Alcohol cups must be paper or plastic and be distinguishable from soda
cups.
   (I)   Service may begin at nine o'clock (9:00) A.M. and must conclude by ten
o'clock (10:00) P.M. on Sunday through Thursday and may begin at nine o'clock
(9:00) A.M. and must conclude by eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M. on Friday,
Saturday, and the day prior to a Federal, State, or City designated holiday.
   (J)   Service must end a minimum of thirty (30) minutes before the scheduled
event end time.
   (K)   Non-alcoholic beverages, water and food must be available at the
event.
   (L)   A minimum of five (5) security officers shall be provided by an
organization acceptable to the Police Chief, and an additional security officer
shall be provided for every fifty (50) estimated attendees.
(Ord. 2023-4, 8-7-2023)
5-7-8: BUSINESS LICENSE:
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to sell, offer for sale, or distribute any food
or merchandise on any public sidewalks, pedestrian paths, or parks within the
City without first obtaining a business license and paying the applicable
business registration fee for each vendor, pursuant to Chapter 1 of Title 5.
Vendors are subject to the same rules and penalties found in Chapter 1 of Title
5.
   (B)   Notwithstanding those provisions, no business license shall be issued
without evidence that the vendor has obtained all permits required by this
chapter. The original of the City business license, vendor permit, and health
permit, as applicable, shall be displayed conspicuously at all times on the
vendor's vehicle, person, or site.
(Ord. 2023-4, 8-7-2023)
5-7-9: HEALTH AND SANITATION REQUIREMENTS:
   (A)   Vendors selling or offering food shall obtain a health permit from the
Fresno County Health Officer, as applicable. The health permit shall be
displayed conspicuously at all times on the vendor's vehicle, person, or site.
Evidence of a health permit shall be made available to the Finance Department
as part of the business license application or renewal.
(Ord. 2023-4, 8-7-2023)
5-7-10: VENDOR PERMIT TO OPERATE:
   (A)   Permit Required: It shall be unlawful to sell, offer for sale, or
distribute any food or merchandise on any public sidewalk, pedestrian path, or
park within the City without first obtaining a vendor permit from the Finance
Department pursuant to the provisions of this chapter. The vendor's permit
shall be displayed conspicuously at all times on the vendor's vehicle, person,
or site. Evidence of such permit shall accompany the Business license
application or renewal application to the Finance Department.
   (B)   Permittee And Location Specific: Vendor permits shall be specific to
the permittee, which may be a person or organization, and location.
   (C)   Nontransferable; No Vested Right: Vendor permits shall be
nontransferable. No vendor shall acquire a vested right or property interest
from the issuance of a permit, and permits shall at all times be subject to the
provisions of this chapter.
   (D)   Application And Fees: Written application for a vendor permit shall be
filed with the Police Chief and shall be accompanied by a fee as approved by
the City Council. Applicants are strongly encouraged to apply for permits more
than forty-five (45) days before the permit is needed in order to ensure timely
processing of the application.
   The vendor applicant shall provide the following information on a form
approved by the Police Chief along with any required documentation:
      1.   Names, addresses, email addresses, and telephone numbers of the
vendor applicant and of all persons financially interested in the business;
      2.   A statement of the type of food or merchandise to be sold;
      3.   The location(s) at which the applicant intends to operate;
      4.   Number of vehicles the vendor applicant intends to operate, along
with a copy of the current registration of each vehicle;
      5.   Intended day(s) and hours of operation at such location(s);
      6.   The site of the toilet and hand washing facility required by Health
and Safety Code Section 114359;
      7.   If the toilet and hand washing facility required by the Health and
Safety Code is on private property, a copy of an enforceable contract between
the private property owner and the vendor applicant allowing vendor to utilize
such facilities on the day(s) and hours of operation;
      8.   A copy of the health permit required by this chapter;
      9.   Agreement by the applicant to indemnify and hold harmless the City,
its officers, officials, volunteers, and employees from any and all damages or
injury to persons or property proximately caused by the act or neglect of the
applicant or by hazardous or negligent conditions maintained at the applicant's
vending location;
      10.   Evidence of general liability insurance, as applicable, in a form
and at levels of coverage acceptable to the City;
      11.   Previous vending permits issued to the applicant in other cities
and the status of those permits;
      12.   Authority for the Police Chief to conduct the background check
necessary for the investigation required by this chapter;
      13.   Certification that, to his or her knowledge and belief, the
information provided is true and correct;
      14.   Fingerprints and a background check shall be completed for vendors
selling commodities appealing to children as determined by the Chief of Police,
such as, but limited to ice cream, snow cones, candy and toys. No permit shall
be issued to applicants selling these commodities if they are a registered sex
offender or are required to be a registered sex offender.
      15.   Such further information as the Selma Police Department may
require.
   (E)   Investigation: The Police Chief shall conduct an investigation of the
application and shall issue a vendor permit within forty-five (45) days of
receipt of a complete application, upon finding all of the following:
      1.   An accurate application has been filed;
      2.   The required application fee has been paid;
      3.   All applicable provisions of this chapter have been or will be met;
      4.   The vending will not cause excessive traffic congestion, impede
pedestrian or bicycle movement, or violate any applicable Federal or State
accessibility laws;
      5.   The vending will not impede recreational opportunities on City
parks, trails, and open spaces;
      6.   The vending will not change the residential character of residential
neighborhoods or have an adverse effect on the safety of the community in any
zone district;
      7.   The applicant and all the persons listed on the application have:
(a) no previous convictions of felonies; (b) no crimes involving theft or fraud
within the preceding ten (10) years.
   (F)   Conditions Of Approval: The Police Chief may impose conditions of
approval on the vendor permit necessary to make the findings for approval. The
Police Chief shall document the need for the conditions.
   (G)   Permit Term And Renewal. Except where a vendor permit is issued for a
shorter duration, as set forth in subsection (H) of this section, permits shall
be issued on a calendar year basis as follows:
      1.   Initial permits. First-year permits issued after October 1 shall be
valid until December 31 of the succeeding year and automatically expire at that
time unless sooner suspended or revoked. First-year permits issued prior to
October 1 shall be valid until December 31 of that year and automatically
expire at that time unless sooner suspended or revoked.
      2.   Annual Renewal: Any vendor permit pursuant to this chapter shall
automatically expire, terminate, and be of no further force and effect at five
o'clock (5:00) P.M. on December 31 of each year if not renewed. Permits may be
renewed prior to expiration by submitting an application for renewal to the
Chief of Police prior to November 1, accompanied by a renewal fee as approved
by the City Council. Applicants for renewal of a first-year permit issued for a
period of less than twelve (12) months shall receive pro rata credit towards
the renewal fee. The application for renewal shall contain the same information
required by subsection (D) of this section, updated to reflect changes in the
preceding year.
   (H)   Single Event Vendor Permits: Single event vendor permits shall be for
no longer than thirty (30) consecutive days in duration and shall name the
exact dates of validity on the permit. No more than one single event vendor
permit shall be issued to a vendor in a calendar year.
   (I)   Priority Of Applications: Vendor applications will be processed in the
order of receipt of a complete application, as determined by the Police Chief,
accompanied by payment of the required application fee. Specific vending
locations requested by more than one vendor will be allocated based upon this
order. A list of applicants shall be maintained and at the time of renewal, the
next vendor on the list will have priority. For high demand areas, the Police
Chief may limit the duration of permits to less than one year.
(Ord. 2023-4, 8-7-2023)
5-7-11: OPERATIONAL REQUIREMENTS:
All vendors are subject to the conditions set forth below:
   (A)   No vendor shall locate within three hundred feet (300') of the grounds
of any elementary or secondary school on any school day while school is in
session;
   (B)   No vendor shall locate within five hundred feet (500') of a freeway
entrance or exit;
   (C)   No vendor shall locate within fifty feet (50') of any street or
roadway intersection, crosswalk, fire hydrant, signal crossing, or bus stop;
   (D)   No vendor shall locate their operation in such a way that would
restrict the ingress to or egress from the adjoining property;
   (E)   No vendor shall locate on any public sidewalk or within any public
street adjacent to a curb which has been duly designated by the City as a
white, yellow, blue or red zone;
   (F)   No vendor shall locate within three hundred feet (300') of any other
existing business that vends similar products or any other licensed vendor
operating during the applicable vending hours specified in this chapter;
   (G)   No vendor may obstruct the flow of pedestrian traffic by reducing the
clear space to less than sixty inches (60") of usable sidewalk pursuant to
California Building Code Section 1133B.7.1;
   (H)   No vendor shall locate their operation in such a way that would
restrict accessibility routes and curb cuts;
   (I)   No vehicle shall roll up onto the sidewalk or cause traffic to block
and be delayed;
   (J)   No driveways, parking lots, or private property can be occupied by a
vendor without written permission;
   (K)   No vendor shall locate their operation in such a way that would
restrict trash enclosures;
   (L)   No vendor shall locate their operation in such a way that would
restrict required off street parking and parking meters;
   (M)   No sidewalk vendor is permitted in residential areas except for
roaming sidewalk vendors pursuant to section 5-7-12;
   (N)   No vendor shall conduct business with customers in moving cars;
   (O)   Vendors must provide a visible trash receptacle for use by bona fide
purchasers;
   (P)   The vendor shall not leave any location without first picking up,
removing and disposing of all trash or refuse from their operation that remains
within one hundred feet (100') of the vendor's position;
   (Q)   No vending shall occur between the hours of ten o'clock (10:00) P.M.
and seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. Specific types of vending may have shorter
permitted hours;
   (R)   No vendor handling food shall operate more than two hundred feet
(200') travel distance of an approved and readily available toilet and hand
washing facility to ensure that restroom facilities are available to the vendor
permit holder and any of its employees whenever operating for more than a one-
hour period;
   (S)   No vendor shall vend within one hundred feet (100') of a special event
for one hour before or after the reserved event time;
   (T)   No sidewalk vendor shall vend in the street;
   (U)   Vendors shall not use City utility connections, including electricity
and water, without prior written approval;
   (V)   Vendors shall not leave items unattended or stored on public property;
   (W)   Vendors shall not sell or attempt to sell by means of any outcry,
sound, speaker or amplifier, or any instrument that violates the Noise
Ordinance of the City of Selma pursuant to Municipal Code Chapter 6-17.
   (X)   Shall not conduct business within one block of any city park at which
a city-approved and permitted special event is taking place without having
obtained a special event permit.
(Ord. 2023-4, 8-7-2023)
5-7-12: ADDITIONAL RULES FOR SIDEWALK VENDORS:
   (A)   Roaming sidewalk vendors shall not stop more than ten (10) minutes to
vend in one location.
   (B)   Vendors are prohibited in all exclusively residential zone districts
in the City except for roaming sidewalk vendors and special event vendors.
   (C)   Roaming sidewalk vendors are prohibited from vending in all
exclusively residential zone districts between the hours of six o'clock (6:00)
P.M. and eight o'clock (8:00) A.M.
   (D)   Sidewalk vending is prohibited along the frontage of any business that
has a sidewalk permit from the City to sell food or merchandise on the sidewalk
in front of the business.
(Ord. 2023-4, 8-7-2023)
5-7-13: ADDITIONAL RULES FOR VENDING IN PARKS:
   (A)   Vendors shall not vend in parks less than one acre in size to preserve
the use and enjoyment of smaller residential and pocket parks.
   (B)   Vendors shall be subject to the City's park rules and regulations.
   (C)   Stationary sidewalk vending is not allowed at parks that have
exclusive vending contracts.
   (D)   Vendors shall at all times adhere to the special event restrictions.
   (E)   Vendors shall at all times meet the two-hundred-foot (200') separation
requirement from other vendors within City parks, unless otherwise authorized
in writing by the Community.
(Ord. 2023-4, 8-7-2023)
5-7-14: FOOD TRUCK VENDOR OPERATIONAL REQUIREMENTS:
All food truck vendors are subject to the following conditions:
   (A)   No food truck shall locate within fifty feet (50') of any street or
roadway intersection, crosswalk, fire hydrant, signal crossing, or bus stop,
except as authorized by an approved Special Event Permit.
   (B)   No food truck shall locate their operation in such a way that would
restrict the ingress to or egress from the adjoining property.
   (C)   No vendor shall sell food and beverage items not regulated under the
California Retail Food Code (California Health and Safety Code Division 104,
Part 7, Section 113700 et seq., as it currently exists or may be amended).
   (D)   No vendor shall locate their operation in such a way that would
restrict accessibility routes and curb cuts.
   (E)   No vehicle shall roll up onto the sidewalk or cause traffic to block
and be delayed.
   (F)   No driveways, parking lots, or private property can be occupied by a
vendor without written permission from the property owner or lessee.
   (G)   No vendor shall locate their operation in such a way that would
restrict trash enclosures.
   (H)   No vendor shall locate their operation in such a way that would
restrict required off street parking and parking meters.
   (I)   No vendor shall conduct business with customers in moving cars.
   (J)   Vendors must provide a visible trash receptacle for use by customers.
   (K)   The vendor shall regularly pick up, remove and dispose of all trash or
refuse from their operation that remains within two hundred feet (200') of the
vendor's position. Regularly means not less than every one hour. For vendors
that operate less than one hour at a location, the vendor shall pick up, remove
and dispose of all trash or refuse prior to leaving the location.
   (L)   No vending shall occur between the hours of ten o'clock (10:00) P.M.
and seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. and no overnight parking shall be permitted.
Through the administrative use permit or temporary use permit process, the
Director may require shorter hours of operation or allow longer hours of
operation depending on the type of vending and location or as part of an
approved Special Event Permit.
   (M)   No vendor shall operate more than two hundred feet (200') travel
distance of an approved and readily available toilet and hand washing facility
to ensure that restroom facilities are available to the food truck permit
holder and any of its employees whenever operating for more than a one-hour
period.
   (N)   No vendor shall vend within three hundred feet (300') of a sponsored
City of Selma special event or other designated special event for one hour
before or after the reserved event time, unless the vendor is approved by the
event's sponsor to participate in the event.
   (O)   Vendors shall not vend at any City facility or property without
written consent of the City of Selma.
   (P)   Vendors shall not use City utility connections, including water and
electric, without prior written approval from the City.
   (Q)   Vendors shall not leave items unattended or stored on public property.
   (R)   All vendors shall comply with the California Vehicle Code and
California Health and Safety Code.
   (S)   Food trucks may not operate in an exclusively residentially zoned
district in the City, except for private events as provided for in Section
5.33.09(c) or as permitted under Section 5-22.
   (T)   Vendors shall not operate in an unsafe manner, including, but not
limited to, impeding on- or off-site vehicle circulation and obstructing the
view of pedestrians by motorists.
   (U)   Vendors may not sell non-food accessory retail items that exceed ten
percent (10%) of the average annual gross receipts of sales from the food
truck. Non-food accessory retail items may not occupy more than ten percent
(10%) of the food truck space devoted to preparation and sales. If the business
is a new business, the gross receipts shall be calculated by considering the
vendor's estimated annual gross receipts for the first year of operation.
"Gross receipts" shall mean the total amount of revenue derived from activities
conducted on or within the food truck.
   (V)   No vendor shall locate within three hundred feet (300') of any other
vendor operating during the applicable vending hours specified in this chapter,
except that the food truck permit may allow for smaller groupings of food
trucks on a single parcel of property.
(Ord. 2023-4, 8-7-2023)
5-7-15: ADDITIONAL RULES FOR FOOD TRUCK VENDORS ON PUBLIC RIGHTS- OF-WAY:
Except as authorized by an approved Special Event permit:
   (A)   No food truck shall vend in any one location on a public street for
more than ten (10) minutes in any two (2) hour period. "Location" for purposes
of this section shall mean a radius of five hundred feet (500') from the
original position of the food truck.
   (B)   No food truck shall locate within five hundred feet (500') of a
freeway entrance or exit.
   (C)   No food truck shall locate within any public street adjacent to a curb
which has been duly designated by the City as a white, yellow, blue or red
zone.
   (D)   The vehicle shall be legally parked and shall not stop, stand, or park
in any clear vision triangle or no parking zone.
   (E)   Vehicles shall not occupy more than two on-street parking spaces in
the public right-of-way in commercial zones.
   (F)   Vendors shall limit food and beverage service to that side of the food
truck facing away from the street.
   (G)   No vendor shall locate within three hundred feet (300') of the grounds
of any elementary or secondary school on any school day while school is in
session; this restriction does not apply to an event at a school facility if
the vendor is in partnership with the organization conducting the event and is
located on the site of the event.
   (H)   Vendors shall indemnify, defend and hold the City, its officials,
officers, employees, agents, and volunteers harmless from and against all
claims, demands, causes of action, actions, damages, losses, expenses, and
other liabilities (including without limitation reasonable attorney fees and
costs of litigation) of every nature arising out of or in connection with
operation of the food truck on City right-of-way, regardless of fault, unless
the injuries or damages are the result of City's sole negligence or willful
misconduct.
   (I)   Vendors shall maintain, at their sole cost and expense, liability
insurance in the amount of not less than two million dollars ($2,000,000.00)
per occurrence, four million dollars ($4,000,000) aggregate, covering liability
associated with operation of the food truck. Vendors shall also maintain, at
their sole cost and expense, automobile insurance in the amount of not less
than one million dollars ($1,000,000.00) commercial auto liability coverage.
The insurance shall be in full force and effect at any time the vendor is
operating in the City. Prior to operations, the vendor shall deliver or have on
file with the City a certificate of insurance which includes all required
coverages, endorsements, and names the City of Selma as additionally insured
and as the certificate holder. The City's Risk Manager shall verify coverages.
(Ord. 2023-4, 8-7-2023)
5-7-16: ADDITIONAL RULES FOR FOOD TRUCK VENDORS ON PRIVATE PROPERTY:
   (A)   Vendors shall obtain written authorization to operate the food truck
from the property owner, or a lessee with authority.
   (B)   Food trucks shall operate as follows:
      1.   Within a level parking area, where it can be demonstrated that any
off-street parking spaces located in that area are not otherwise reserved,
encumbered, or designated to satisfy the off-street parking requirement of a
business or activity that is operating at the same time as the food truck.
      2.   Operations shall not impede pedestrian or vehicular ingress or
egress through the remainder of the parking area or adjacent public right-of-
way.
      3.   Vendors shall not use or permit use of parking spaces on the site
(e.g., customer queuing, tables, chairs, portable restrooms, signs, and any
other ancillary equipment) if doing so will adversely affect the required off-
street parking available for the primary use(s) of the site during peak periods
as determined by the Director of Planning and Development Services.
      4.   Vendors shall have adequate lighting to ensure customer safety
either on the vehicle or at the location of the vehicle during business hours.
(Ord. 2023-4, 8-7-2023)
5-7-17: SUPPLEMENTAL REGULATIONS:
   (A)   The City Manager and Police Chief, and their designees, are hereby
authorized to adopt supplemental rules and regulations, and to develop all
related forms and/or other materials, reasonably necessary to implement this
chapter, and to make such interpretations of this chapter as they may consider
necessary to achieve the purposes of this chapter. Violations of supplemental
rules and regulations shall be considered violations of this chapter.
(Ord. 2023-4, 8-7-2023)
5-7-18: VIOLATIONS:
   (A)   Fines And Penalties: Violations of this chapter or the conditions of
an issued special event, vendor, and/or food truck permit shall be subject to
the following fines:
      1.   Violations that occur while operating without a valid permit:
         (a)   An administrative fine of one hundred dollars ($100.00) for a
first violation;
         (b)   An administrative fine of two hundred dollars ($200.00) for a
second violation within one year of the first violation;
         (c)   An administrative fine of four hundred dollars ($400.00) for a
third violation within one year of the first violation;
         (d)   An administrative fine of four hundred dollars ($400.00) for a
fourth and each subsequent violation within one year of the first violation and
confiscation of the vehicle, food and merchandise as provided for in
subsections (b) and (c) of this section;
         (e)   The all administrative fines listed in this subsection may be
reduced by fifty percent (50%) upon submission of proof of a permit to the City
Manager's office.
      2.   Violations that occur while operating with a valid permit:
         (a)   An administrative fine of fifty dollars ($50.00) for a first
violation;
         (b)   An administrative fine of one hundred dollars ($100.00) for a
second violation within one year of the first violation;
         (c)   An administrative fine of two hundred dollars ($200.00) for a
third violation within one year of the first violation; and
         (d)   An administrative fine of two hundred dollars ($200.00) for a
fourth and each subsequent violation within one year of the first violation and
revocation or suspension of permit and/or confiscation of vehicle, food and
merchandise, as provided for in subsections (b) and (c) of this section.
      3.   Penalties for failing to have a business license are subject to the
penalty provision of Chapter 2 of Title 1.
      4.   Fines may be issued on a form approved by the City Manager, and
shall include an appeal process as provided for in Municipal Code Title 1,
Chapter 20.
   (B)   Revocation And Suspension: The City may suspend for up to thirty (30)
days or revoke any permit issued under this chapter when any one or more of the
following grounds are found to exist:
      1.   Violation of this chapter or provisions of a permit. The City shall
not revoke a permit for violations of this chapter or the permit that relate
solely to the act until the fourth violation in any three hundred sixty-five
(365) day period.
      2.   Violation of local, State, or Federal law in connection with a
special event, vendor, or food truck activity.
      3.   When a permit was issued under fraudulent circumstances or mistake.
      4.   When necessary to protect the public health, safety, or welfare.
   (C)   Confiscation: In connection with suspension or revocation of a permit,
the City may confiscate property used in connection with vending upon a
determination that confiscation of the property is necessary to protect the
public health, safety, or welfare.
   (D)   Procedures: The following procedures shall apply for suspensions,
revocation, and confiscation:
      1.   Prior to revocation or suspension of a permit and/or confiscation of
property, the City shall provide written notice to the person or organization
for which a special event, vendor, or food truck permit was issued stating the
reasons for the action by personal notice or certified mail.
      2.   The notice shall provide information on the appeal process and
explain that a suspension may lead to a permanent revocation of the permit.
      3.   Unless immediate suspension is necessary to protect the public
health, safety, and welfare, prior to taking final action the City shall afford
the person or organization for which a special event, vendor, or food truck
permit was issued, and vehicle owner when applicable, an opportunity for an
appeal hearing pursuant to the procedures set forth in Municipal Code Section
1-20-8. For immediate suspensions, the appeal hearing, if requested, shall be
held within ten (10) business days after the filing of the appeal.
      4.   If an appeal is filed, the hearing officer may permanently revoke
the permit, reinstate the permit, conditionally reinstate the permit, or modify
the suspension, based upon findings related to circumstances described in this
section. The Hearing Officer shall also make appropriate findings regarding any
confiscation.
(Ord. 2023-4, 8-7-2023)
5-7-19: SPECIAL EVENT FEE REDUCTION AND WAIVER REGULATIONS:
   (A)   Purpose: The purpose of this section is to provide an equitable means
for community organizations:
      1.   To access fee reductions or fee waivers;
      2.   To establish mutually beneficial partnerships between the City and
the community; and
      3.   To effectively control the manner in which the City provides event
support via fee reductions or fee waivers;
      4.   Identify Legacy Events that shall be budgeted by the City of Selma
annually for co-sponsorship.
   (B)   Responsibility:
      1.   The number of special events the City supports with waivers or
reductions will depend on the budget and operating impacts, and will vary
annually. Annually, the City will allocate up to twenty-five thousand dollars
($25,000.00) to be used to waive or reduce City Service Fees required for
special events. All events must occur within the year they are budgeted to
occur. Unmet thresholds at the end of the year will not be carried forward to
future years.
      2.   The City Manager may waive or reduce special event City Permit Fees
up to a total of five hundred dollars ($500.00) per event after reviewing a
recommendation from the Recreation Director and Finance Director, and upon a
finding of eligibility pursuant to the criteria provided herein.
      3.   If the request exceeds five hundred dollars ($500.00) per event, or
includes other City Service Fees outside of the Permit Fees mentioned above,
then the request must be approved by City Council.
   (C)   Eligible Special Events and Activities: Fee reductions and waivers are
available to a variety of events including sporting, tourism, cultural,
general, and major community events.
      1.   The following projects and organizers are ineligible:
         (a)   Events organized by groups or individuals that are
unincorporated;
         (b)   Private functions;
         (c)   Political parties and lobby groups;
         (d)   Recipients of any other financial or other type of assistance
from the City within the same calendar year;
         (e)   Projects or organizations who have not satisfactorily fulfilled
their obligations following previous fee reductions or waivers.
      2.   Legacy Events Defined:
         (a)   "Legacy events" demonstrate consistent benefit to the local
community and meet one of the following criteria:
            (1)   Have been held for a significant number of years while
providing education to visitors regarding the historical and/or cultural
heritage of residents of the City of Selma.
            (2)   Celebrate national holidays with the residents of Selma.
            (3)   Promote the youth of the City and/or the region at large
through collaboration with local schools.
         (b)   The following events have been identified by the City Council as
Legacy Events:
            (1)   The Raisin Festival;
            (2)   3rd of July Celebration;
            (3)   Band Festival;
            (4)   Christmas Parade;
            (5)   Sikh Parade;
            (6)   Portuguese Parade;
            (7)   Chamber of Commerce Annual Car Show and BBQ;
            (8)   Tejano Festival;
            (9)   Dia de los Muertos Celebration.
   (D)   Fee Reductions and Waivers: Fee reductions and waivers are for permit
fees only. Direct costs including, but not limited to, staff time, and
applicable overtime, are not eligible for fee waiver or reduction under this
policy.
      1.   The following qualifications must be met to be eligible for fee
reductions or waivers:
         (a)   The following not-for-profit organizations and non-profit
entities that have a documented federal tax exempt status:
            (1)   501(c)(3): Charitable, educational, religious, or scientific
organizations that provide essential services or benefits to the local
community.
            (2)   501(c)(4): Civic leagues and social welfare organizations are
typically engaged in efforts that promote the well-being of the community.
            (3)   501(c)(5): Labor and agricultural organizations provide
essential support to major local industries or worker populations.
            (4)   501(c)(6): Business leagues and chambers of commerce can play
a key role in local economic development. If supporting business growth and
stability is a local priority, these groups might receive fee waivers.
            (5)   501(c)(7 through 10): Social and recreational clubs,
fraternal organizations, and other such societies that play a significant role
in community bonding or provide essential community services.
         (b)   Local organization presence;
         (c)   Organization cannot receive more than one waiver or reduction in
a fiscal year;
         (d)   Be open to the public;
         (e)   Raise the profile of Selma through prominent acknowledgement of
its support and assistance in event marketing materials and at the event
itself;
         (f)   Benefit the residents of Selma;
         (g)   Organization is required to provide a report to City Council
post event.
      2.   Legacy Events shall be subject to provisions of this Chapter, but
will be budgeted by the City of Selma annually and are not required to obtain
fee waivers.
      3.   Legacy Events shall still be required to submit timely Special Event
applications within the required timelines in order to be approved for
operation. Nothing in this ordinance shall entitle Legacy Events to be exempt
from the application process, or any other requirements in this policy.
      4.   Cost Recovery for fees for special events are based on the
following:
         (a)   Tier 1 - One hundred percent (100%) cost recovery: First-time
events that have not been reviewed by the City at any time prior to the current
application.
         (b)   Tier 2 - Seventy five percent (75%) cost recovery: Recurring
events that require some form of City services to conduct the event.
         (c)   Tier 3 - Fifty percent (50%) cost recovery: Recurring events
that require no City services to conduct the event.
   5.   Vendors as defined by this Section that are associated with an
authorized Legacy Event are exempt from obtaining a business license for the
duration of the Legacy Event.
(E)   Other Obligations: Any reduction in or waiver of fees allowed will not
affect the obligation of a permittee or event organizer to comply with the
remaining qualifications, restrictions, and criteria of City policies, or to
pay other costs or to provide insurance as required by City policies or
ordinances. Business license, health permit, fire permit and liquor license
fees will not be waived or reduced. (Ord. 2023-4, 8-7-2023; amd. Ord. 2023-5;
Ord. 2025-01, 3-18-2025)
CHAPTER 8
PEDDLERS
(Rep. by Ord. 854, 4-18-1983)
CHAPTER 9
ITINERANT MERCHANTS
(Rep. by Ord. 854, 4-18-1983)
CHAPTER 10
REBOUND TUMBLING CENTERS
SECTION:
5-10-1: Definitions
5-10-2: Fee
5-10-3: Liability Insurance
5-10-4: Condition of Equipment
5-10-5: Rules and Regulations
5-10-6: Supervision
5-10-7: Qualifications of Supervisors
5-10-8: Handling and Reporting Accidents
5-10-9: Telephone
5-10-10: First Aid Equipment
5-10-11: Sanitation
5-10-12: Layout of Rebound Tumbling Equipment
5-10-13: Construction of Pits
5-10-14: Use of Padding
5-10-15: Inspection
5-10-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this Chapter the following terms shall have the meanings
respectively ascribed to them:
   REBOUND TUMBLING EQUIPMENT: A fabric bed or surface designed to provide
resilience by virtue of its own elasticity or that provided by an elastic or
spring suspension system or both, within a stable and tested frame and intended
to be used for jumping, bouncing, or acrobatic tumbling.
   REBOUND TUMBLING CENTER: A place where rebound tumbling equipment is
provided and maintained for public use. (1963 Code)
5-10-2: FEE:
Every person exhibiting, showing or operating a rebound tumbling center, and
charging a fee for the same, shall procure a license and pay an annual fee of
fifty dollars ($50.00). (1963 Code; amd. Ord. 792, 6-28-78)
5-10-3: LIABILITY INSURANCE:
The operator of a rebound tumbling center shall procure and at all times
maintain in full force and effect a policy of liability insurance for each
rebound tumbling equipment insuring him against liability from personal injury
with limits of not less than:
   (A)   Fifty thousand dollars ($50,000.00) for any one occurrence.
   (B)   Twenty five thousand dollars ($25,000.00) for any one person, per
occurrence.
The operator shall file a true copy of his insurance policy with the Clerk.
5-10-4: CONDITION OF EQUIPMENT:
Rebound tumbling equipment shall be maintained in a good state of repair and
equipment which has broken springs or broken webbing shall not be used. The
licensee shall take precautionary measures to prevent broken springs from
disengaging from the assembly.
5-10-5: RULES AND REGULATIONS:
The licensee shall enforce, and all customers using rebound tumbling equipment
shall observe and obey the following rules and regulations which shall be
printed in clear, easily read letters not less than one inch (1") in size, and
posted in one (1) or more conspicuous and well lighted locations within the
tumbling equipment center:
   (A)   Not over one (1) person on the apparatus at one (1) time.
   (B)   No flips, twists, or similar difficult routines unless under the
immediate supervision of a qualified instructor, or until qualified as
demonstrated by an officially acceptable certificate or as determined by the
operator. In case of dispute with a patron, the operator's ruling shall be
final.
   (C)   No use of equipment in street shoes or in bare feet.
   (D)   All patrons shall strictly and promptly comply with requests or
requirements of the operator.
   (E)   No use while under the influence of any alcoholic beverage or when not
in condition to safely use the equipment, as determined by the operator.
   (F)   No jumping from apparatus to apparatus or to any point outside the
frame of the apparatus.
   (G)   No actions allowed which will or may seriously distract or interfere
with a performer.
   (H)   No children under six (6) years of age shall be allowed to use the
equipment unless accompanied by a responsible person.
   (I)   No smoking, eating, or drinking while using the equipment.
5-10-6: SUPERVISION:
   (A)   A rebound tumbling center, whenever open for use, shall be under the
direct supervision of as many supervisors as are necessary to comply with the
posted rules.
   (B)   The supervisor shall be observing all equipment units whenever they
are in use.
   (C)   Each unit shall be numbered or otherwise clearly designated.
   (D)   A suitable loud speaker system shall be maintained to enforce rules
except where there are less than eight (8) units.
   (E)   There shall be at least one (1) supervisor on active supervising duty
for each twelve (12) units or fractional part which are in use.
5-10-7: QUALIFICATIONS OF SUPERVISORS:
A rebound tumbling supervisor shall be:
   (A)   Eighteen (18) years of age or over. (1963 Code)
   (B)   (Rep. by Ord. 745, 6-7-76)
   (C)   Trained and experienced in the supervision and control of personnel,
both skilled and unskilled, in the art of rebound tumbling.
   (D)   Physically and otherwise fully fit to manage the facility.
5-10-8: HANDLING AND REPORTING OF ACCIDENTS:
The operator of a rebound tumbling center shall:
   (A)   Direct to competent care for handling and disposition of all accidents
and injuries.
   (B)   Report to the Health Officer all accidents of a nature to cause
unconsciousness, broken or sprained extremities or bones, removal, breaking or
loosening of teeth, hemorrhaging or lacerations which may require suturing, and
eye injuries.
   (C)   Maintain on the premises records of all medical aid or care
administered.
   (D)   Keep, in a place readily available at all times to himself and his
employees, the telephone number of available emergency services.
5-10-9: TELEPHONE:
The operator of a rebound tumbling center shall maintain on the premises a
telephone which shall be available for emergency at all times during which the
rebound tumbling center is in operation.
5-10-10: FIRST AID EQUIPMENT:
The operator of a rebound tumbling center at all times shall maintain on the
premises and replenish as necessary an adequate first aid kit of at least
sixteen (16) units, as recommended by the American Red Cross First Aid Manual.
5-10-11: SANITATION:
The operator of a rebound tumbling center shall keep the premises and all
facilities in a clean condition. He shall provide, as needed to prevent litter,
waste containers and appropriate signs.
The operator of a rebound tumbling center shall provide on the premises
drinking facilities which shall consist of either a sanitary drinking fountain
or bottled water and paper cups available in a suitable, sanitary dispenser.
5-10-12: LAYOUT OF REBOUND TUMBLING EQUIPMENT:
   (A)   Rebound tumbling equipment shall be located on a level surface in such
a way as to be within view of the operator or attendant at all times.
   (B)   The spacing of equipment units shall conform to the following minimum
dimensions as measured from the inside edge of the frame:
      1.   Three feet (3') between sides of units.
      2.   Four feet (4') between ends of units.
      3.   Five feet (5') from ends of nearest fence, building, or other
similar construction.
      4.   Three feet (3') from sides or corners to nearest fence, building or
other similar construction.
   (C)   The area surrounding the rebound tumbling equipment shall be surfaced
to prevent a dust nuisance and have a reasonably level surface of pea gravel or
equivalent type of material from a safety and dust control standpoint.
   (D)   The entire rebound tumbling center shall be completely enclosed by
fencing not less than five feet (5') in height.
5-10-13: CONSTRUCTION OF PITS:
   (A)   Pits for rebound tumbling centers shall be so constructed that they
will not interfere with the operation of the equipment and of a depth not less
than three feet (3') nor more than four feet (4') at centers.
   (B)   Such pits shall be so framed that the rebound tumbling equipment is
held in a level position and is supported on a solid stable surface. Lumber
used as framing for pits shall be not less than two inches (2") in thickness
and shall be securely connected together.
5-10-14: USE OF PADDING:
The frames of rebound tumbling equipment shall be completely padded to provide
reasonable safety. Pads two inches (2") thick filled with cotton linters shall
be deemed to meet this requirement.
5-10-15: INSPECTION:
The Building Inspector shall inspect annually every rebound tumbling center.
(1963 Code)
CHAPTER 11
SELF-SERVICE LAUNDRIES
SECTION:
5-11-1: Definition
5-11-2: License Required
5-11-3: Hours of Operation (Rep. by Ord. 742-A, 3-15-76)
5-11-4: Installation of Equipment
5-11-5: Enforcement
5-11-1: DEFINITION:
The term "self-service laundries" as used in this Chapter shall mean any
establishment in which coin-operated facilities are available for washing
clothes or for drying clothes, or both, and which is open and available to the
general public for use.
5-11-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to establish or operate a self-service
laundry in the City without first having secured a license therefor from the
Clerk. Applications for license shall comply with the general provisions
relating to applications for licenses found in Chapter 1 of this Title. (1963
Code)
5-11-3: HOURS OF OPERATION:
(Rep. by Ord. 742-A, 3-15-76)
5-11-4: INSTALLATION OF EQUIPMENT:
Installation of all equipment in the establishment shall be in conformity with
the building, plumbing and electrical regulations established by this Code.
5-11-5: ENFORCEMENT:
It shall be the duty of the Chief of Police and the Building Inspector to see
to the enforcement of this Chapter and to cause such inspection to be made of
the premises as may be necessary for that purpose. (1963 Code)
CHAPTER 12
AUTOMATIC DRY CLEANING MACHINES
SECTION:
5-12-1: Definition
5-12-2: License Required; Permit
5-12-3: Installation Regulations
5-12-4: Operation Regulations
5-12-5: Inspections
5-12-6: Compliance Required
5-12-1: DEFINITION:
For the purpose of this Chapter the following term shall have the meaning
respectively ascribed to it:
   AUTOMATIC DRY CLEANING MACHINE: Includes and means any device or apparatus
for the cleaning of clothes or fabrics, and designed to be used or operated by
any person but the owner, or an employee of the owner thereof, which machine or
device makes use of or contains perchlorethylene or any other chemical solvent
or substance which may cause harm to human beings by reason of inhalation or
contact. (1963 Code)
5-12-2: LICENSE REQUIRED; PERMIT:
It shall be unlawful for any person to install any automatic dry cleaning
machine without first having secured a permit therefor. Applications for such
permit shall contain full information as to the mechanical equipment of such
machine and provisions for ventilation for both the machine and the room in
which the machine will be located. (1963 Code; amd. Ord. 792, 6-28-78)
It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in the business of maintaining
such machine for use by the public upon payment of a fee, without having first
secured a license therefor. The annual fee for such business license shall be
set by resolution duly adopted by the Selma City Council. (Ord. 891, 3-2-87,
eff. 7-1-87)
5-12-3: INSTALLATION REGULATIONS:
Each machine shall be completely enclosed by a cabinet and shall be vented with
an intake at the top and the outlet at or near the bottom of such machine.
Groups of machines may be entirely enclosed or supported on all open sides by
an enclosure topped with a hood vented as provided for each individual machine.
The exhaust system must maintain a minimum flow of one hundred (100) cubic feet
per minute face velocity through the loading door whenever the door is open.
The discharge stack for the machines and for the room in which the machines are
located shall extend at least two feet (2') above the level of any window which
can be opened located within fifty feet (50') of the outlet of the stack, and
shall be at least fifty feet (50') away from any fresh air intake leading to
any premises.
The machines must be so constructed as to prevent the loading door from being
opened during the normal cycle of operation. Each machine shall be equipped
with a transparent door or part to allow visual examination of the status of
the cleaning cycle.
Any connection of such machine with the water supply system must be equipped
with an air gap or vacuum breaker in the line upstream from the condenser; with
no control valves downstream from such gap or breaker. Waste water shall be
discharged through an air gap.
The room in which such machine is installed shall be ventilated so that there
shall be a minimum flow of air per machine from the area to which the public is
admitted, of at least five hundred cubic feet (500 cu. ft.) per machine per
minute in a room where there are no more than three (3) machines installed four
hundred cubic feet (400 cu. ft.) per minute where there are no more than eight
(8) machines installed; three hundred seventy-five cubic feet (375 cu. ft.) per
minute where there are no more than sixteen (16) machines installed; and three
hundred sixty cubic feet (360 cu. ft.) per minute where there are more than
seventeen (17) machines installed. For this purpose each cleaning cell shall be
considered as one (1) machine.
Each machine must be so designed and constructed as to prevent the leakage of
liquids, gas or vapors.
5-12-4: OPERATION REGULATIONS:
No automatic dry cleaning machine shall be operated unless all the equipment
described in the above Section is properly installed and in good operating
working conditions.
No establishment for which a license is required under the provisions of this
Chapter shall be open for business, and it shall be unlawful to admit the
public or customers into the room where such machines are located unless there
is on duty in the establishment at all times a competent person in charge of
the establishment and in charge of the operation of such machines. There shall
be warning signs posted in places of easy observation warning of the dangers in
the event leakage of liquids, gas or vapor occurs. It shall be unlawful for any
person to permit any residue containing solvent to flow into the sewer system.
Tightly covered metal containers may be used for temporary storage of such
wastes outside of the building. Such containers shall bear labels indicating
the contents and dangers involved in handling, and shall be locked if in an
unenclosed place.
At least one (1) legible sign shall be maintained in a place available to
customers giving the name, address and phone number of the owner of the
establishment, and of the service department or agency responsible for the
proper maintenance of the machines.
5-12-5: INSPECTIONS:
It shall be the duty of the Building Inspector to cause such inspections to be
made as are necessary to see to the enforcement of the provisions of this
Chapter. (Ord. 742-A, 3-15-76)
5-12-6: COMPLIANCE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to install, operate or maintain any
automatic dry cleaning machine except in compliance with the provisions of this
Chapter, or without complying with all of the provisions of this Code
pertaining to the installation and operation of such machines herein contained;
or in violation of any other provisions of this Code relating thereto. (1963
Code)
CHAPTER 13
AUCTIONS
SECTION:
5-13-1: License
5-13-2: Charitable Auction Exempt
5-13-1: LICENSE:
Any person desiring a business license to conduct an auction in the City shall
apply for the license with the City Clerk and shall pay a business license fee
of twenty five dollars ($25.00) per day. The application for the business
license shall require the name and address of the applicant; the applicant's
license number issued by the California Auctioneer Commission and the location
of the auction.
5-13-2: CHARITABLE AUCTION EXEMPT:
The provisions of this Chapter shall not apply to any auction held for
charitable or benevolent purposes, or for any church fair, festival or bazaar.
(Ord. 857, 8-15-83)
CHAPTER 14
HOTELS
SECTION:
5-14-1: Definition
5-14-2: Fire Protection Equipment
5-14-3: Maintenance of Equipment
5-14-4: Inspection
5-14-5: Hotel Register
5-14-1: DEFINITION:
Every building maintained or advertised as a public lodging house or where more
than six (6) rooms are provided for sleeping accommodations shall be known as a
hotel.
5-14-2: FIRE PROTECTION EQUIPMENT:
The Fire Chief, or other officer designated by the Council, shall survey each
hotel and specify suitable fire detecting devices or extinguishing appliances
which shall be provided.
5-14-3: MAINTENANCE OF EQUIPMENT:
Fire protective or extinguishing systems or appliances which have been
installed in compliance with any permit or order, or according to any
provisions of this Code, shall be maintained in operative condition at all
times and it shall be unlawful for any owner or occupant to reduce the
effectiveness of the protection so required.
5-14-4: INSPECTION:
It shall be the duty of the Fire Chief and the Health Officer, or other
officers so designated by the Council, to make periodic and regular inspections
of every hotel and to make regular reports thereon to the Council concerning
regulations imposed by this Code.
5-14-5: HOTEL REGISTER:
A register shall be maintained at every hotel and each guest shall be required
to register his name and home address. The date of arrival and departure shall
be clearly indicated and the register shall be maintained for a period of at
least one (1) year following registration. The register shall be open for
inspection to any authorized person. (1963 Code)
CHAPTER 15
TRANSIENT OCCUPANCY TAX
SECTION:
5-15-1: Title
5-15-2: Definitions
5-15-3: Tax Imposed
5-15-4: Collection Of Tax By Operator; Rules For Collection Schedules
5-15-5: Operator's Duties
5-15-6: Exemptions
5-15-7: Registration Of Operator; Form And Contents; Execution; Certification
Of Authority
5-15-8: Penalties And Interest
5-15-9: Due Date; Returns And Payments
5-15-10: Deficiency Determinations
5-15-11: Redeterminations
5-15-12: Security For Collection Of Tax
5-15-13: Refunds
5-15-14: Administration
5-15-15: Appeal
5-15-16: Transient Occupancy Tax Review Committee, Appeal, Rules, Procedure
5-15-17: Saving Clause
5-15-18: Violations
5-15-1: TITLE:
This chapter shall be known as the TRANSIENT OCCUPANCY TAX ORDINANCE OF THE
CITY OF SELMA. (Ord. 2013-4, 11-5-2013)
5-15-2: DEFINITIONS:
Except where the context otherwise requires, the definitions given in this
section govern the construction of this chapter.
   HOTEL: Any structure, or any portion of any structure, which is occupied or
intended or designed for occupancy by transients for dwelling, lodging, or
sleeping purposes, and includes any hotel, inn, tourist home or house, motel,
studio hotel, bachelor hotel, lodging house, rooming house, apartment house,
dormitory, public or private club, mobile home or house trailer at a fixed
location, or other similar structure or portion thereof.
   LEGISLATIVE BODY: The city council of the city of Selma.
   OCCUPANCY: The use or possession, or the right to the use or possession of
any room or rooms or portions thereof, in any hotel for dwelling, lodging, or
sleeping purposes.
   OPERATOR: The person who is proprietor of the hotel, whether in the capacity
of owner, lessee, sublessee, mortgagee in possession, licensee, or any other
capacity. Where the operator performs his functions through a managing agent of
any type or character other than an employee, the managing agent shall also be
deemed an operator for the purposes of this chapter and shall have the same
duties and liabilities as his principal. Compliance with the provisions of this
chapter by either the principal or the managing agent shall, however, be
considered to be compliance by both.
   PERSON: Any individual, firm, partnership, joint venture, association,
social club, fraternal organization, joint stock company, corporation, estate,
trust, business trust, receiver, trustee, syndicate, or any other group or
combination acting as a unit.
   RENT: The consideration charged, whether or not received, for the occupancy
of space in a hotel valued in money, whether to be received in money, goods,
labor, or otherwise, including all receipts, cash, credits, and property and
services of any kind or nature, without any deduction therefrom whatsoever.
   TAX ADMINISTRATOR: The city clerk.
   TRANSIENT: Any person who exercises occupancy or is entitled to occupancy in
a hotel by reason of a lease, concession, permit, right of access, license or
other agreement for a period of thirty (30) consecutive calendar days or less,
counting portions of calendar days as full days. Any such person so occupying
space in a hotel shall be deemed to be a transient until the period of thirty
(30) days has expired unless there is an agreement in writing between the
operator and the occupant providing for a longer period of occupancy. In
determining whether a person is a transient, uninterrupted periods of time
extending both prior and subsequent to the effective date of this chapter may
be considered.
   TRANSIENT OCCUPANCY TAX REVIEW COMMITTEE: A committee composed of the
following three (3) persons or officers: mayor, city clerk, and city attorney.
(Ord. 587, 6-1-1964)
5-15-3: TAX IMPOSED:
For the privilege of occupancy in any hotel, inn, tourist home, house, motel or
other lodging, unless occupancy is for a period of more than thirty (30) days,
the transient is subject to and shall pay a tax in the amount of twelve percent
(12%) of the rent charged by the operator. Said tax constitutes a debt owed by
the transient to the city which is extinguished only by payment to the operator
or to the city. The transient shall pay the tax to the operator of the hotel at
the time the rent is paid. If the rent is paid in installments, a proportionate
share of the tax shall be paid with each installment. Any unpaid tax shall be
due upon the transient's ceasing to occupy the space in the hotel, inn, tourist
home, motel or other lodging. If for any reason the tax bill is not paid to the
operator of the hotel or other lodging, the tax administrator may require that
such tax shall be paid directly to him or her. (Ord. 2013-4, 11-5-2013)
5-15-4: COLLECTION OF TAX BY OPERATOR; RULES FOR COLLECTION SCHEDULES:
Every operator maintaining a place of business and renting rooms in this city,
the occupancy of which is not exempted under the terms of this chapter, shall
collect the tax from the occupant. The tax required to be collected by the
operator constitutes a debt owing by the operator to the city. In all cases of
transactions upon credit or deferred payment, the payment of tax to the
operator may be deferred in accordance therewith, and the operator shall be
liable therefor at the time and to the extent that such credits are paid or
deferred payments are made in accordance with the rate of tax owing on the
amount thereof.
The tax administrator shall enforce the provisions of this chapter and shall
have the power to adopt rules and regulations not inconsistent herewith as may
be necessary or desirable to aid in the enforcement hereof. He shall provide
schedules for payment of the tax and such schedules shall eliminate fractions
of one cent ($0.01). (Ord. 587, 6-1-1964)
5-15-5: OPERATOR'S DUTIES:
Each operator shall collect the tax imposed by this chapter to the same extent
and at the same time as the rent is collected from every transient. The amount
of tax shall be separately stated from the amount of the rent charged, and each
transient shall receive a receipt for payment from the operator. No operator of
a hotel shall advertise or state in any manner, whether directly or indirectly,
that the tax or any part thereof will be assumed or absorbed by the operator,
or that it will not be added to the rent, or that, if added, any part will be
refunded except in the manner hereinafter provided. (Ord. 587, 6-1-1964)
5-15-6: EXEMPTIONS:
No tax imposed under this chapter shall be imposed upon:
   (A)   Any person as to whom, or any occupancy as to which, it is beyond the
power of the city to impose the tax herein provided;
   (B)   Any officer or employee of the government of the United States Of
America, state of California, or any subdivision thereof when on official
business;
   (C)   Any officer or employee of a foreign government who is exempt by
reason of express provision of federal law or international treaty;
   (D)   Any occupant for more than thirty (30) successive calendar days;
   (E)   Any occupant whose rent is of a value less than two dollars ($2.00) a
day;
   (F)   Any person who rents a private home, vacation cabin or like facility
from an owner who is not regularly engaged in the business of renting such
facilities but does so only occasionally and incidentally to his own use
thereof;
   (G)   Any occupant whose rent is paid for a hospital room or to a medical
clinic, convalescent home or home for aged people.
No exemption shall be granted under subsection (A), (B), or (C) of this section
except upon a claim therefor made at the time rent is collected and under
penalty of perjury upon a form prescribed by the tax administrator. (Ord. 587,
6-1-1964)
5-15-7: REGISTRATION OF OPERATOR; FORM AND CONTENTS; EXECUTION; CERTIFICATION
OF AUTHORITY:
Every person engaging or about to engage in business as an operator of a hotel
in this city shall register with the tax administrator on a form provided by
him. Persons engaged in such business must so register not later than July 15,
1964, or within fifteen (15) days after commencing business whichever is later,
but such privilege of registration after the date of imposition of such tax
shall not relieve any person from the obligation of payment or collection of
tax on and after the date of imposition thereof, regardless of registration.
Such registration shall set forth the name under which such person transacts or
intends to transact business, the location of his place or places of business
and such other information to facilitate the collection of the tax as the tax
administrator may require. The registration shall be signed by the owner if a
natural person; in case of an association or partnership, by a member or
partner; in the case of a corporation, by an executive officer or some person
specifically authorized by the corporation to sign the registration. The tax
administrator shall within ten (10) days after such registration issue without
charge a certificate of authority to each registrant to collect the tax from
the occupant, together with a duplicate thereof for each additional place of
business of such registrant. Such certificates shall be nonassignable and
nontransferable and shall be surrendered immediately to the tax administrator
upon the cessation of business at the location named or upon its sale or
transfer. Each certificate and duplicate shall state the place of business to
which it is applicable and shall be prominently displayed therein so as to be
seen and come to the notice readily of all occupants and persons seeking
occupancy.
Said certificate shall, among other things, state the following:
   (A)   The name of the operator;
   (B)   The address of the hotel;
   (C)   The date upon which the certificate was issued;
   (D)   This Transient Occupancy Registration Certificate signifies that the
person named on the face hereof has fulfilled the requirements of the Transient
Room Tax Ordinance of the City of Selma by registration with the Tax
Administrator for the purpose of collecting from transients the room tax
imposed by said City and remitting said tax to the Tax Administrator. This
certificate does not authorize any person to conduct any unlawful business or
to conduct any lawful business in any unlawful manner, or to operate a hotel
without strictly complying with all local applicable laws, including but not
limited to those requiring a permit from any board, commission, department, or
office of said City.
This certificate does not constitute a permit.
If the Tax Administrator deems it necessary in order to facilitate initial
registration hereunder of persons engaged in business on or prior to the date
of imposition of tax as set forth in this Chapter, he may prescribe provisions
therefor other than those provided in this Section. Such provisions shall be
made to effect the purposes hereof. For such purposes, such provisions shall be
in lieu of or in addition to those herein provided. Such registration and
certificate thereof shall have the same effect as that provided herein.
5-15-8: PENALTIES AND INTEREST:
   (A)   Original Delinquency. Any operator who fails to remit any tax imposed
by this Chapter within the time required shall pay a penalty of ten per cent
(10%) of the amount of the tax in addition to the amount of the tax.
   (B)   Continued Delinquency. Any operator who fails to remit any delinquent
remittance on or before a period of thirty (30) days following the date on
which the remittance first became delinquent shall pay a second delinquency
penalty of ten per cent (10%) of the amount of the tax in addition to the
amount of the tax and the ten per cent (10%) penalty first imposed.
   (C)   Fraud. If the Tax Administrator determines that the nonpayment of any
remittance due under this Chapter is due to fraud or intent to evade the
provisions thereof, a penalty of twenty five percent (25%) of the amount of the
tax shall be added thereto in addition to the penalties stated in paragraphs
(A) and (B) of this Section.
   (D)   Interest. In addition to the penalties imposed, any operator who fails
to remit any tax imposed by this Chapter shall pay interest at the rate of one
half of one per cent (.5%) per month or fraction thereof on the amount of the
tax, exclusive of penalties, from the date on which the remittance first became
delinquent until paid.
   (E)   Penalties Merged With Tax. Every penalty imposed and such interest as
accrues under the provisions of this Section shall be merged with and become a
part of the tax herein required to be paid.
5-15-9: DUE DATE; RETURNS AND PAYMENTS:
   (A)   The tax imposed by this Chapter shall become due and payable from the
occupant at the time of occupancy. All amounts of such taxes collectible or
collected by any operator are due and payable to the Tax Administrator
quarterly on the first day of the months of April, July, October, and January
next succeeding each respective quarterly period and are delinquent after the
last day of such months.
   (B)   On or before the last day of the month following each quarterly period
of three (3) months, a return for the preceding quarterly period shall be filed
with the Tax Administrator. The return shall be filed in such form as the Tax
Administrator may prescribe, by every operator and by every person liable to
payment of tax hereunder during such quarterly period who has not paid such
tax, and who has not made return in regard to the related occupancy which is
the subject of tax.
   (C)   Returns show the amount of tax collected or otherwise due for the
related period and such other information as is required by the Tax
Administrator. The Tax Administrator may require returns to show the total
rentals upon which tax was collected or otherwise due, the gross receipts of a
registered returnee for such period and the explanation in detail of any
discrepancy between such amounts.
   (D)   The person required to file the return shall deliver the return,
together with the remittance of the amount of the tax due, to the Tax
Administrator at his office.
   (E)   For good cause the Tax Administrator may extend for not to exceed one
month the time for making any return or payment of tax. No further extension
shall be granted, except by the Transient Occupancy Review Committee. Any
person to whom an extension is granted who makes return and pays the tax within
the period of such extension shall pay, in addition to the tax, interest on the
amount thereof at the rate of one half of one per cent (.5%) per month, or
fraction thereof, on the unpaid balance for the period of such extension to the
time of return and payment, which interest shall become a part of the tax.
   (F)   The Tax Administrator, if he deems it necessary in order to insure
payment or facilitate collection by the City of the amount of taxes in any
individual case, may require returns and payment of the amount of taxes for
other than quarterly periods.
5-15-10: DEFICIENCY DETERMINATIONS:
   (A)   If the Tax Administrator is not satisfied with the return or returns
of the tax or the amount of the tax required to be paid to the City by any
person, he may compute and determine the amount required to be paid upon the
basis of the facts contained in the return or returns or upon the basis of any
information within his possession or that may come into his possession. One or
more deficiency determinations may be made of the amount due for one or more
than one period.
   (B)   In making a determination the Administrator may offset overpayments,
if any, which may have been previously made for a period or periods together
with interest on the overpayments, against any underpayment for a subsequent
period or periods, or against penalties, and interest, on the underpayments.
The interest on underpayments and overpayments shall be computed in the manner
set forth in Section
5-15-13.
   (C)   The Tax Administrator shall give to the operator or occupant written
notice if his determination. The notice may be served personally or by mail; if
by mail, the notice shall be enclosed in a sealed envelope postage prepaid and
addressed to the operator at his address as it appears in the records of the
Administrator. In case of service by mail of any notice required by this
Chapter the service is complete at the time of deposit in the United States
Post Office.
   (D)   Except in the case of fraud, intent to evade this Chapter or
authorized rules and regulations, or failure to make a timely return, every
deficiency determination shall be made and notice thereof mailed within three
years after the last day of the month following the close of the quarterly
period for which the amount is proposed to be determined or within three (3)
years after the return is filed, whichever period expires the later.
   (E)   If any operator shall fail or refuse to collect said tax or to make,
within the time provided in this Chapter any report and remittance of said tax
or any portion thereof required by this Chapter or makes a fraudulent return or
otherwise wilfully attempts to evade this Chapter, the Tax Administrator shall
proceed in such manner as he may deem best to obtain facts and information on
which to base his estimate of the tax due. As soon as the Tax Administrator
shall procure such facts and information as he is able to obtain upon which to
base the assessment of any tax imposed by this Chapter and payable by any
operator who has failed or refused to collect the same and to make such report
and remittance, he shall proceed to determine and assess against such operator
the tax, interest, and penalties, provided for by this Chapter. In case such
determination is made, the Tax Administrator shall give a notice in the manner
aforesaid of the amount so assessed. Such determination and notice shall be
made and mailed within three (3) years after discovery by the Tax Administrator
of any fraud, intent to evade or failure to file return. Any determination
shall become final within thirty (30) days after giving notice thereof as
herein provided.
   (F)   If the Tax Administrator believes that the collection of any tax or
any amount of tax required to be collected and paid to the City will be
jeopardized by delay, or if any determination will be jeopardized by delay, he
shall thereupon make a determination of the tax or amount of tax required to be
collected, noting that fact upon the determination. The amount determined is
immediately due and payable. If the amount specified in the determination is
not paid within ten (10) days after service of notice thereof upon the person
against whom the determination is made, the amount becomes final at the
expiration of the ten (10) days, unless a petition for redetermination is filed
within the ten (10) days and the delinquency penalty and the interest provided
in Section
5-15-8 shall attach to the amount of the tax or the amount of the tax required
to be collected.
5-15-11: REDETERMINATIONS:
   (A)   Any person against whom a determination is made under Section
5-15-10 or any person directly interested may petition for a redetermination
within fifteen (15) days after service upon the person of notice thereof. If a
petition for redetermination is not filed within the thirty (30) day period,
the determination becomes final at the expiration of the period. Provided,
however, a petition for redetermination under Subsection (F) of Section
5-15-10 shall be filed within ten (10) days after notice.
   (B)   If a petition for redetermination is filed within the allowable
period, the Tax Administrator shall reconsider the determination, and, if the
person has so requested in his petition, shall grant the person on oral hearing
and shall give him ten (10) days notice of the time and place of the hearing.
The Tax Administrator may continue the hearing from time to time as may be
necessary.
   (C)   The Tax Administrator may decrease or increase the amount of the
determination before it becomes final but the amount may be increased only if a
claim for the increase is asserted by the Tax Administrator at or before the
hearing.
   (D)   The order or decision of the Tax Administrator upon a petition for
redetermination becomes final fifteen (15) days after service upon the
petitioner of notice thereof, unless appeal of such order or decision is filed
with the Transient Occupancy Tax Review Committee within fifteen (15) days
after service of such notice.
   (E)   No petition for redetermination or appeal therefrom shall be effective
for any purpose unless at or before the filing thereof the amount found due in
the original determination is paid or a bond or other security satisfactory to
the Tax Administrator is filed with him guaranteeing payment of any amount
finally determined to be due.
5-15-12: SECURITY FOR COLLECTION OF TAX:
   (A)   The Tax Administrator, whenever he deems it necessary to insure
compliance with this Chapter, may require any person subject thereto to deposit
with him such security in the form of cash, bond, or other security as the Tax
Administrator may determine. The amount of the security shall be fixed by the
Tax Administrator but shall not be greater than twice the person's estimated
average liability for the period for which he files returns, determined in such
manner as the Tax Administrator deems proper, or ten thousand dollars
($10,000.00), whichever amount is the lesser. The amount of the security may be
increased or decreased by the Tax Administrator subject to the limitations
herein provided.
   (B)   If any person is delinquent in the payment of the amount required to
be paid by him or in the event a determination has been made against him which
remains unpaid, the Tax Administrator may, not later than three (3) years after
the payment became delinquent, give notice thereof by registered mail to all
persons in the County having in their possession or under their control any
credits or other personal property belonging to the delinquent, or owing any
debts to the delinquent. After receiving the notice the persons so notified
shall neither transfer nor make any other disposition of the credits, other
personal property, or debts in their possession or under their control at the
time they receive the notice until the Tax Administrator consents to a transfer
or disposition or until twenty (20) days elapse after the receipt of the
notice. All persons so notified shall within five (5) days after the receipt of
the notice advise the Tax Administrator of all such credits, other personal
property, or debts in their possession, under their control, or owing by them.
   (C)   At any time within three (3) years after any tax or any amount of tax
required to be collected becomes due and payable or at any time within three
(3) years after any determination becomes final, the Tax Administrator may
bring an action in the courts of this State, or any other State, or of the
United States in the name of the City to collect the amount delinquent together
with penalties and interest.
   (D)   If any operator liable for any amount under this Chapter sells out his
business or quits the business, his successors or assigns shall withhold
sufficient of the purchase price to cover such amount until the former owner
produces a receipt from the Tax Administrator showing that he has been paid or
a certificate stating that no amount is due. If the purchaser of a business
fails to withhold the tax from the purchase price as required, he becomes
personally liable for the payment of the amount required to be withheld by him
to the extent of the purchase price, valued in money. Within thirty (30) days
after receiving a written request from the purchaser for a certificate, the Tax
Administrator shall either issue the certificate or mail notice to the
purchaser at his address as it appears on the records of the Tax Administrator
of the amount that must be paid as a condition of issuing the certificate.
Failure of the Administrator to mail the notice will release the purchaser from
any further obligation to withhold the purchase price as above provided.
The time within which the obligation of a successor may be enforced shall start
to run at the time the operator sells out his business or at the time that the
determination against the operator becomes final, whichever event occurs the
later.
5-15-13: REFUNDS:
Whenever the amount of any tax, penalty, or interest has been paid more than
once or has been erroneously or illegally collected or received by the Tax
Administrator under this Chapter, it may be refunded provided a verified claim
in writing therefor, stating the specific ground upon which the claim is
founded, is filed with the Tax Administrator within three (3) years from the
date of payment. The claim shall be made on forms provided by the Tax
Administrator. If the claim is approved by the Tax Administrator the excess
amount collected or paid may be refunded or may be credited on any amounts then
due and payable from the person from whom it was collected or by whom paid and
the balance may be refunded to such persons, his administrators or executors.
5-15-14: ADMINISTRATION:
   (A)   The Tax Administrator shall deposit all moneys collected pursuant to
this Chapter to the credit of the General Fund.
   (B)   Records Required from Operators, etc.; Form. Every operator renting
guest rooms in this City shall keep such records, receipts, invoices, and other
pertinent papers in such form as the Tax Administrator may require. All records
shall be retained by the operator for a period of three (3) years and six (6)
months after they come into being.
   (C)   Examination of Records; Investigations. The Tax Administrator or any
person authorized in writing by him may examine the books, papers, records and
equipment of any person liable for the tax and may investigate the character of
the business of the person in order to verify the accuracy of an return made,
or if no return is made by the person, to ascertain and determine the amount
required to be paid.
   (D)   Authority to Require Reports; Contents. In administration of the tax
the Tax Administrator may require the filing of reports by any person or class
of persons having in his or their possession or custody information relating to
rentals of guest rooms which are subject to the tax. The reports shall be filed
when the Tax Administrator requires and shall set forth the rental charged for
each occupancy, the date or dates of occupancy, and such other information as
the Tax Administrator may require.
   (E)   Confidential Character of Information Obtained; Disclosure Unlawful.
It shall be unlawful for the Tax Administrator or any person having an
administrative duty under the provisions of this Chapter to make known in any
manner whatever the business affairs, operations, or information obtained by an
investigation of records and equipment of any person required to obtain a
Transient Occupancy Registration Certificate, or pay a transient occupancy tax,
or any other person visited or examined in the discharge of official duty, or
the amount or source of income, profits, losses, expenditures, or any
particulars thereof, set forth in any statement or application, or to permit
any statement or application, or copy of either, or any book containing any
abstract or particulars thereof to be seen or examined by any person. Provided
that nothing in this Subsection shall be construed to prevent:
      (1) The disclosure to, or the examination of records and equipment by
another City official, employee, or agent for collection of taxes for the sole
purpose of administering or enforcing any provisions of this Chapter, or
collecting taxes imposed hereunder;
      (2) The disclosure of information to, or the examination of records by,
Federal, or State officials, or the tax officials of another City, or County,
or City and County, if a reciprocal arrangement exists; or to a grand jury or
court of law, upon subpoena;
      (3) The disclosure of information and results of examination of records
of particular taxpayers, or relating to particular taxpayers, to a court of law
in a proceeding brought to determine the existence or amount of any business
tax liability of the particular taxpayers to the City;
      (4) The disclosure after the filing of a written request to that effect,
to the taxpayer himself, or to his successors, receivers, trustees, executors,
administrators, assignees, and guarantors, if directly interested, of
information as to the items included in the measure of any paid tax, any unpaid
tax or amounts of tax required to be collected, interest, and penalties;
further provided, however, that the City Attorney approves each such disclosure
and that the Tax Administrator may refuse to make any disclosure referred to in
this /paragraph when in his opinion the public interest would suffer thereby;
      (5) The disclosure of the names and addresses of persons to whom
Transient Occupancy Registration Certificates have been issued, the names and
addresses of officers of corporations and members of partnerships to whom such
certificates have been issued, and the general type or nature of their
business;
      (6) The disclosure to the legislative body by way of public meeting or
otherwise of such information as may be necessary in order to permit it to be
fully advised as to the facts when a taxpayer files a claim for refund of
business taxes, or submits an offer of compromise with regard to a claim
asserted against him by the City for business taxes, or when acting upon any
other matter;
      (7) The disclosure of general statistics regarding taxes collected or
business done in the City.
   (F)   Disclosure of Business of Operators, etc.; Limitation on Rule. Neither
the Tax Administrator nor any person having an administrative duty under this
Chapter shall make known in any manner whatever the business affairs,
operations, or information obtained by an investigation of records and
equipment of any operator or any person visited or examined in the discharge of
official duty or the amount or source of income, profits, losses, expenditures,
or any particular thereof, set forth or disclosed in any return, or to permit
any return or copy thereof or any book containing any abstract or particulars
thereof to be seen or examined by any person. Successors, receivers, trustees,
executors, administrators, assignees, and guarantors, if directly interested,
and upon submitting written proof of their interest, may be given information
as to the items included in the measure and amount of any unpaid tax or amounts
of tax required to be collected, interest and penalties.
5-15-15: APPEAL:
Any person aggrieved by any decision of the Tax Administrator may appeal to the
Transient Occupancy Tax Review Committee by filing a notice of appeal with the
Tax Administrator within fifteen (15) days of the serving or mailing of the
notice of the decision. The Tax Administrator shall fix a time and place for
hearing such appeal as prescribed by the Transient Occupancy Tax Review
Committee in its rules and regulations and shall give the appellant ten (10)
days written notice of the time and place of hearing.
5-15-16: TRANSIENT OCCUPANCY TAX REVIEW COMMITTEE, APPEAL, RULES, PROCEDURE:
A Transient Occupancy Tax Review Committee is hereby created. The Committee
shall select from its members a chairman who shall serve at its pleasure. Any
member of the Committee may deputize in writing filed with the Committee any
member of his office or in the case of the Mayor, a member of the Council, to
serve in his place on such Committee for such period or in such hearing as he
may desire. A majority of the members of the Committee shall constitute a
quorum. The Committee shall keep a record of its transactions. The Committee
shall be deemed to be in the office of the City Clerk, shall meet and keep its
files in his office and all filing with the Committee relating to appeals, or
otherwise, shall be made at such office. Neither the members of the Committee,
nor the persons deputized to serve in their places, at any time shall receive
any compensation as such members or acting members for their services on the
Committee.
The Committee shall have power and it shall be its duty:
   (A)   To hear and determine appeals of orders or decisions of the Tax
Administrator made upon petitions for redetermination of tax. The Committee may
affirm, modify, or reverse such orders or decisions or dismiss the appeals
therefrom, as may be just, and shall prescribe such forms, rules, and
regulations relating to appeals as it may deem necessary. In the review of the
tax administrator's decision or order, the committee may take such evidence and
make such investigation as it may deem necessary. It shall give notice of its
determinations in the manner prescribed for service of notice of a tax
administrator's decision and shall file a copy of each such determination with
the tax administrator with certification thereon of the date of service
thereof. Such determination shall become final ten (10) days thereafter and
shall thereupon become due and payable, subject to interest and penalties, and
enforceable by the tax administrator in like manner as an order or decision of
the tax administrator.
   (B)   To approve, modify, or disapprove all forms, rules, and regulations
prescribed by the tax administrator in the administration and enforcement of
this chapter and such forms, rules, and regulations shall be subject to, and
become effective only on, such approval.
   (C)   To hear and determine in such manner as shall be just, any protest
which may be made by any person who may be interested, to any form, rule, or
regulation approved or prescribed by the committee.
   (D)   To grant for good cause, applications for extensions of time in excess
of one month, for making any return or payment of tax, and to prescribe rules
therefor.
   (E)   To make such investigations as it deems advisable regarding the
imposition and administration of the transient occupancy tax and report its
findings to the legislative body. Act in an advisory capacity to the
legislative body on matters pertaining to the transient occupancy tax and
enforcement problems and recommend to the legislative body the adoption,
amendment, or repeal of legislation pertaining thereto. (Ord. 587, 6-1-1964)
5-15-17: SAVING CLAUSE:
If any section, subsection, paragraph, sentence, clause, or phrase of this
chapter, or any part thereof, is for any reason held to be unconstitutional (or
otherwise invalid), such decision shall not affect the validity of the
remaining portions of this chapter or any part thereof. The legislative body
hereby declares that it would have passed each section, subsection,
subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause, or phrase thereof, irrespective of
the fact that any one or more sections, subsections, subdivisions, paragraphs,
sentences, clauses, or phrases be declared unconstitutional (or otherwise
invalid). (Ord. 587, 6-1-1964)
5-15-18: VIOLATIONS:
It is unlawful for any operator or other person so required to, to fail or
refuse to register as required herein, or to furnish any return required to be
made, or fail or refuse to furnish a supplemental return or other data required
by the tax administrator or to render a false or fraudulent return. No person
required to make, render, sign, or verify any report shall make any false or
fraudulent report, with intent to defeat or evade the determination of an
amount due required by this chapter to be made. (Ord. 587, 6-1-1964)
CHAPTER 16
REAL PROPERTY TAX STAMP
SECTION:
5-16-1: Title
5-16-2: Tax Rate
5-16-3: Liability Designated
5-16-4: Debt Exemption
5-16-5: Governmental Exemption
5-16-6: Priority Established
5-16-7: Securities And Exchange Commission
5-16-8: Partnerships
5-16-9: Administration of Provisions
5-16-10: Refunds
5-16-11: County Cooperation
5-16-12: Filing With County
5-16-13: Effective Date
5-16-1: TITLE:
This Chapter shall be known as the "Real Property Tax Stamp". It is adopted
pursuant to the authority contained in Part 6.7 (commencing with Section 11901)
of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code of the State of California.
5-16-2: TAX RATE:
There is hereby imposed on each deed, instrument or writing by which any lands,
tenements, or other realty sold within the City shall be granted, assigned,
transferred or otherwise conveyed to, or vested in, the purchaser or
purchasers, or any other person or persons, by his or their direction, when the
consideration or value of the interest or property conveyed (exclusive of the
value of any lien or encumbrances remaining thereon at the time of sale)
exceeds one hundred dollars ($100.00), a tax at the rate of twenty seven and
one half cents ($.275) for each five hundred dollars ($500.00) or fractional
part thereof.
5-16-3: LIABILITY DESIGNATED:
Any tax imposed pursuant to Section
5-16-2 hereof shall be paid by any person who makes, signs or issues any
document or instrument subject to the tax, or for whose use or benefit the same
is made, signed or issued.
5-16-4: DEBT EXEMPTION:
Any tax imposed pursuant to this Chapter shall not apply to any instrument in
writing given to secure a debt.
5-16-5: GOVERNMENTAL EXEMPTION:
The United States or any agency or instrumentality thereof, any State or
Territory, or Political Subdivision thereof, or the District of Columbia shall
not be liable for any tax imposed pursuant to this Chapter with respect to any
deed, instrument, or writing to which it is a party, but the tax may be
collected by assessment from any other party liable therefor.
5-16-6: PRIORITY ESTABLISHED:
Any tax imposed pursuant to this Chapter shall apply to the making, delivering
or filing of conveyances to make effective any plan of reorganization or
adjustment:
   (A)   Confirmed under the Federal Bankruptcy Act, as amended;
   (B)   Approved in any equity receivership proceeding in a Court involving a
Railroad Corporation, as defined in subdivision (m) of Section 205 of Title 11
of the United States Code, as amended;
   (C)   Approved in any equity receivership proceeding in a Court involving a
Corporation, as defined in subdivision (3) of Section 506 of Title 11 of the
United States Code, as amended; or
   (D)   Whereby a mere change in identity, form or place of organization is
effected.
Subdivisions (A) to (D), inclusive, of this Section shall only apply if the
making, delivery or filing of instruments of transfer or conveyances occurs
within five (5) years from the date of such confirmation, approval or change.
5-16-7: SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION:
Any tax imposed pursuant to this Chapter shall not apply to the making or
delivery of conveyances to make effective any order of the Securities and
Exchange Commission, as defined in subdivision (a) of Section 1083 of the
Internal Revenue Code of 1954; but only if:
   (A)   The order of the Securities and Exchange Commission in obedience to
which such conveyance is made recites that such conveyance is necessary or
appropriate to effectuate the provisions of Section 79k of Title 15 of the
United States Code, relating to the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935;
   (B)   Such order specifies the property which is ordered to be conveyed;
   (C)   Such conveyance is made in obedience to such order.
5-16-8: PARTNERSHIPS:
   (A)   In the case of any realty held by a partnership, no levy shall be
imposed pursuant to this Chapter by reason of any transfer of an interest in a
partnership or otherwise, if:
      1.   Such partnership (or another partnership) is considered a continuing
partnership within the meaning of section 708 of the Internal Revenue Code of
1954; and
      2.   Such continuing partnership continues to hold the realty concerned.
   (B)   If there is a termination of any partnership within the meaning of
section 708 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954, for purposes of this Chapter,
such partnership shall be treated as having executed an instrument whereby
there was conveyed, for fair market value (exclusive of the value of any lien
or encumbrance remaining thereon), all realty held by such partnership at the
time of such termination.
   (C)   Not more than one tax shall be imposed pursuant to this Chapter by
reason of a termination described in subsection (B), and any transfer pursuant
thereto, with respect to the realty held by such partnership at the time of
such termination. (Ord. 637, 12-4-67)
5-16-9: ADMINISTRATION OF PROVISIONS:
The County Recorder shall administer this Chapter in conformity with the
provisions of part 6.7 of division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code and the
provisions of any County ordinance adopted pursuant thereto. (Ord. 637, 12-4-
67)
5-16-10: REFUNDS:
Claims for refund of taxes imposed pursuant to this Chapter shall be governed
by the provisions of chapter 5 (commencing with section 5096) of part 9 of
division 1 of the Revenue and Taxation Code of the State. (Ord. 637, 12-4-67)
5-16-11: COUNTY COOPERATION:
This Chapter shall become operative upon the operative date of any ordinance
adopted by the County of Fresno, pursuant to part 6.7 (commencing with section
11901) of division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code of the State, or upon the
effective date of this Chapter, whichever is the later. (Ord. 637, 12-4-67)
5-6-12: FILING WITH COUNTY:
Upon its adoption the Clerk shall file two (2) copies of this Chapter with the
County Recorder of Fresno County. (Ord. 637, 12-4-67)
5-16-13: EFFECTIVE DATE:
This Chapter, inasmuch as it provides for a tax levy for the usual and current
expenses of the City, shall take effect January 1, 1968. (Ord. 637, 12-4-67)
CHAPTER 17
SALE OF PERSONAL PROPERTY IN RESIDENTIAL ZONES
SECTION:
5-17-1: Title
5-17-2: Yard, Garage And Similar Sales
5-17-3: Permit Required
5-17-4: Limitations
5-17-5: Exceptions
5-17-6: Fees And Penalties
5-17-1: TITLE:
This chapter shall be known as the SALE OF PERSONAL PROPERTY IN RESIDENTIAL
ZONES. (Ord. 692, 6-5-1972, eff. 7-4-1972)
5-17-2: YARD, GARAGE AND SIMILAR SALES:
In the event miscellaneous items of personal property are to be offered for
sale to the general public by means of a garage sale, patio sale or other sale
similarly conducted (herein collectively "yard sale"), the person(s) conducting
such yard sale shall file an affidavit or declaration with the city finance
department stating that the person or persons conducting the sale are not being
paid in any manner by any other person(s) for use of the property on which the
yard sale is taking place and that no more than two (2) previous such yard
sales per property have been held within the calendar year. (Ord. 2005-2, 2-22-
2005)
5-17-3: PERMIT REQUIRED:
Any person may conduct a yard sale upon the premises on which they reside in
the city of Selma ("city"); provided, however, that a permit is first obtained
from the city. A yard sale permit shall be valid for a maximum of three (3)
consecutive days.
   (A)   The yard sale permit shall include the following information:
      1.   Full name and address of the person or persons wishing to hold the
yard sale (the "permittee");
      2.   Address where the yard sale will be conducted;
      3.   Dates of yard sale;
      4.   Phone number of persons responsible for yard sale;
      5.   General description of goods to be sold;
      6.   An affidavit or declaration stating under penalty of perjury that
the permittee conducting the yard sale is not being paid in any manner by any
other person(s) for use of the property on which the yard sale is taking place
and that no more than two (2) previous such yard sales by any person(s) have
been held at that property within the calendar year.
   (B)   Only three (3) such yard sales per location may be conducted in any
calendar year and shall be limited to not more than three (3) consecutive days.
   (C)   No yard sale permit shall be issued by the finance department until
the applicant has paid a permit fee in the amount set by the city council.
(Ord. 2005-2, 2-22-2005)
5-17-4: LIMITATIONS:
   (A)   No more than three (3) yard sales may be conducted by any permittee
upon the same property within the same calendar year.
   (B)   The permittee must be a resident of the property on which the yard
sale is to take place.
   (C)   Yard sales shall be held between the hours of six o'clock (6:00) A.M.
and eight o'clock (8:00) P.M. and shall not exceed three (3) consecutive days.
   (D)   No permittee shall be entitled to receive payment in any form for
allowing another person's merchandise or belongings to be sold at this yard
sale.
   (E)   Except for handmade craft items, the items to be sold shall consist
exclusively of used merchandise and personal belongings.
   (F)   Yard sales must be conducted within the garage, carport, front yard,
side yard, back yard or patio of the permittee's residence, however, a vehicle
offered for sale may be displayed on a permanently constructed driveway within
such front or side yards. Property displayed in the front yard must be removed
from the front yard no later than eight o'clock (8:00) P.M. each day. (Ord.
2005-2, 2-22-2005)
5-17-5: EXCEPTIONS:
   (A)   This chapter shall not apply to sales of personal property made under
court order or process.
   (B)   In the case of churches, public schools, fraternal organizations and
other nonprofit entities, three (3) sales per calendar year, for charitable
purposes may be conducted on the premises or in buildings of said church,
public school, fraternal organization and other nonprofit entity, by each
affiliated group having written permission to use said premises or building and
upon approval of the city manager or a designated representative. Provided
further, a yard sale can be held at a residence designated therefor by the
authorized representative of the applicable group and which shall constitute
one of the permitted sales per calendar year. Each yard sale shall be limited
to not more than three (3) consecutive days. (Ord. 2005-2, 2-22-2005)
5-17-6: FEES AND PENALTIES:
The fee for each sale shall be set by ordinance or resolution of the city
council. Fees paid shall not be refundable. Failure to obtain a valid yard sale
permit prior to the commencement of the yard sale shall double the yard sale
permit fee, which permit fee is due and payable whether the yard sale utilizes
the three (3) consecutive day permit period or not and shall include the time
such yard sale had been in progress prior to the issuance of a permit. (Ord.
2005-2, 2-22-2005)
CHAPTER 18
MASSAGE ESTABLISHMENTS
SECTION:
5-18-1: Title
5-18-2: Definitions
5-18-3: Prohibited Conduct
5-18-4: Display Of Certificate
5-18-5: Keeping Of Records
5-18-6: Notification Of Changes
5-18-7: Sanitation And Safety Requirements
5-18-8: Advertising
5-18-9: Supervision
5-18-10: Persons Under Age Eighteen Prohibited On The Premises
5-18-11: Alcoholic Beverages Prohibited On The Premises
5-18-12: Activities At Residence
5-18-13: Inspection Required
5-18-14: Massage Establishment Facilities
5-18-15: Massage Facilities Operation
5-18-16: Penalty For Violation
5-18-17: Conducting As A Nuisance
5-18-18: Exceptions
5-18-19: Severability
5-18-20: Application Of Ordinance To Existing Businesses
5-18-1: TITLE:
This chapter shall be known as the CITY OF SELMA MASSAGE BUSINESS ORDINANCE.
(Ord. 2015-1, 2-17-2015)
5-18-2: DEFINITIONS:
   (A)   Unless the particular provision or the context otherwise requires, the
definitions and provisions contained in this section shall govern the
construction, meaning and application of words and phrases used in this
chapter, and, except to the extent that a particular word or phrase is
otherwise specifically defined in this section, the definitions and provisions
contained in title I, chapter 3 of this code shall also govern the
construction, meaning and application of words and phrases used in this
chapter. The definition of each word or phrase shall constitute, to the extent
applicable, the definition of each word or phrase which is derivative from it,
or from which it is a derivative, as the case may be.
   EMPLOYEE: Any person over eighteen (18) years of age, who renders any
service in connection with the operation of a massage business and receives
compensation from the operator of the business or patrons.
   MASSAGE: The scientific manipulation of the soft tissues, including, but not
limited to, any method of treating the superficial parts of a patron for
medical, hygienic, exercise or relaxation purposes by rubbing, stroking,
kneading, tapping, pounding, vibrating or stimulating with the hands or any
instrument, or by the application of air, liquid or vapor baths of any kind
whatever.
   MASSAGE ESTABLISHMENT: Any establishment having a fixed location, other than
a residence, where any individual, firm, association, partnership, corporation
or combination of individuals engages in, conducts, carries on or permits to be
engaged in, conducted or carried on, massages, baths or health treatments
involving massage or baths as the principal function for compensation,
excluding those locations where massage is only provided on outcall basis.
   MASSAGE PRACTITIONER: A person who is certified as such by the California
massage therapy council (CMTC) and who administers massage for compensation.
   MASSAGE THERAPIST: A person certified as such by CMTC and who administers
massage for compensation.
   PATRON: Any person over eighteen (18) years of age who receives a massage
under such circumstances that it is reasonably expected that he or she will pay
money or give any other consideration whatsoever therefor.
   SOLE PROVIDER: A massage business where the owner owns one hundred percent
(100%) of the business, is the only person who provides massage services for
compensation for that business pursuant to a valid and active certificate
issued by the CMTC and has no other employees or independent contractors. (Ord.
2015-1, 2-17-2015)
5-18-3: PROHIBITED CONDUCT:
   (A)   Certificate Required: No person shall engage in or carry on the
business of massage or administer massage for compensation unless such person
has a valid massage practitioner or massage therapist certificate issued by
CMTC.
   (B)   Business License Required: In addition to the required massage
practitioner or massage therapist certificate, each and every separate office
or place of business operating as a massage establishment shall pay a business
license as prescribed by this code. (Ord. 2015-1, 2-17-2015)
5-18-4: DISPLAY OF CERTIFICATE:
The massage establishment permittee shall display the original massage
practitioner or massage therapist certificate issued by CMTC of each and every
person employed in the establishment, or administering massage at the
establishment for compensation in an open and conspicuous place on the premises
of the establishment. (Ord. 2015-1, 2-17-2015)
5-18-5: KEEPING OF RECORDS:
Every person who operates a massage establishment or administers massage for
compensation shall at all times keep an appointment book in which the name of
each and every patron shall be entered, together with the time, date and place
of service and the service provided. Such appointment book shall be available
at all times for inspection by the city or any authorized representative of the
city.
Every person who practices or operates a massage establishment, and administers
massage for compensation at any location other than the massage establishment
including, but not limited to, any motel or hotel, must first give notice of
his or her presence on the premises at that location and fully identify himself
or herself, the massage business operator and the patron upon whom the person
intends to practice or provide a massage to the owner, manager or person in
charge of that location before rendering any service. This provision shall be
deemed complied with where the location is a motel or hotel by giving such
notice and identification to the person in charge of the registration desk of
such motel or hotel. A record of such appointment shall also be kept in the
appointment book hereinabove specified. (Ord. 2015-1, 2-17-2015)
5-18-6: NOTIFICATION OF CHANGES:
Every massage establishment shall report immediately to the city any and all
changes of ownership or management of the massage business, including, but not
limited to, changes of manager or other person principally in charge,
stockholders holding more than ten percent (10%) of the stock of the
corporation, officers, directors and partners; any and all changes of name,
style or designation under which the business is to be conducted; any and all
changes of business address or telephone numbers where the business is to be
conducted; and any and all changes or transfers of massage practitioners or
massage therapists employed in the massage establishment or administering
massage at the massage establishment whether by new or renewed employment,
discharge or termination or otherwise. (Ord. 2015-1, 2-17-2015)
5-18-7: SANITATION AND SAFETY REQUIREMENTS:
All massage establishments shall be periodically inspected by the city or an
authorized representative for safety of the structure and adequacy of plumbing,
ventilation, heating and illumination. The walls shall be clean and painted
with washable, mold resistant paint in all rooms where water or steam baths are
given. Floors shall be free from any accumulation of dust, dirt or refuse. All
equipment used in the massage operation shall be maintained in a clean and
sanitary condition. Towels, linen and items for personal use of operators and
patients shall be clean and freshly laundered. Towels, cloths and sheets shall
not be used for more than one patron. Heavy white paper may be substituted for
sheets provided that such paper is changed for every patron. No massage service
or practice shall be carried on within any cubicle, room, booth or any area
within a massage establishment which is fitted with a door capable of being
locked. Nothing contained herein shall be construed to eliminate other
requirements of statute or ordinance concerning the maintenance of premises,
nor to preclude authorized inspection thereof. (Ord. 2015-1, 2-17-2015)
5-18-8: ADVERTISING:
No person shall publish or distribute, or cause to be published or distributed,
any advertising matter or business identification card that states or depicts
any portion of the human body that would reasonably suggest to prospective
patrons that any service is available other than a "massage" as defined in
section
5-18-2 of this chapter. (Ord. 2015-1, 2-17-2015)
5-18-9: SUPERVISION:
Any massage establishment shall have one person who holds a valid massage
therapist or massage practitioner's certificate issued by CMTC on the premises
at all times while the establishment is open. A certificate holder shall
personally supervise the business and shall not violate, or permit others to
violate, any applicable provision of this chapter or of applicable statute and
any such violation by any agent or employee of the massage establishment shall
constitute a violation by the certificate holder. (Ord. 2015-1, 2-17-2015)
5-18-10: PERSONS UNDER AGE EIGHTEEN PROHIBITED ON THE PREMISES:
No person shall permit any person under the age of eighteen (18) years to come
into or remain on the premises of any massage establishment. (Ord. 2015-1, 2-
17-2015)
5-18-11: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES PROHIBITED ON THE PREMISES:
No person shall sell, give, dispense, provide or keep or cause to be sold,
given, dispensed, provided or kept, any alcoholic beverage as defined in
section 23004 of the Business And Professions Code of the state on the premises
of any massage establishment. (Ord. 2015-1, 2-17-2015)
5-18-12: ACTIVITIES AT RESIDENCE:
No person shall, for compensation, administer the activities covered by this
chapter at his private residence at any time or permanently at any residence.
(Ord. 2015-1, 2-17-2015)
5-18-13: INSPECTION REQUIRED:
The city or any authorized representative shall, from time to time, make
inspection of each massage establishment for the purposes of determining that
the provisions of this chapter and of statute are fully complied with. (Ord.
2015-1, 2-17-2015)
5-18-14: MASSAGE ESTABLISHMENT FACILITIES:
Every massage establishment shall maintain facilities meeting the following
requirements:
   (A)   Sign: Subject to applicable ordinances, a recognizable and legible
sign shall be posted at the main entrance identifying the establishment as a
massage establishment.
   (B)   Lighting: Minimum lighting shall be provided in accordance with the
building code, and, in addition, at least one artificial light of not less than
forty (40) watts shall be provided in each room or enclosure where massage
services are performed on patrons.
   (C)   Ventilation: Minimum ventilation shall be provided in accordance with
the building code.
   (D)   Equipment: Adequate equipment for disinfecting and sterilizing
instruments used in performing the acts of massage shall be provided.
   (E)   Water: Hot and cold running water shall be provided at all times.
   (F)   Linen Storage: Closed cabinets shall be provided for storage of clean
linens and approved receptacles shall be provided for storage of soiled linen.
   (G)   Separation Of Sexes: If male and female patrons are to be served
simultaneously at the massage establishment, a separate massage room or rooms,
separate dressing facilities and separate toilet facilities shall be provided
for male and female patrons, and each such separate facility or room shall be
clearly marked as such.
   (H)   Bathing, Dressing, Locker, Toilet Facilities: Adequate bathing,
dressing, locker and toilet facilities shall be provided for patrons. A minimum
of one tub or shower, one dressing room containing a separate locker for each
patron to be served, which locker shall be capable of being locked, and a
minimum of one toilet and one washbasin shall be provided for every massage
establishment.
   (I)   Facilities For Employees: A minimum of one separate washbasin shall be
provided in each massage establishment for the use of employees of any such
establishment, which basin shall provide soap or detergent and hot and cold
running water at all times and shall be located within or close as practical to
the area devoted to the performing of massage services. In addition, there
shall be provided sanitary towels in permanently installed dispensers at each
washbasin. (Ord. 2015-1, 2-17-2015)
5-18-15: MASSAGE FACILITIES OPERATION:
Every massage establishment shall comply with the following operating
requirements. These requirements shall be prominently and publicly displayed in
a conspicuous place upon every premises operating under the provisions of this
chapter.
   (A)   Bath and massage operations shall be carried on and the premises shall
be open only between the hours of seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. and twelve o'clock
(12:00) midnight.
   (B)   A list of services available and the cost of such services shall be
posted in an open, public place on the premises and shall be described in
readily understandable language. No owner, operator, responsible managing
employee, manager or certificate holder shall permit and no massage
practitioner or massage therapist shall offer to perform any services other
than those posted.
   (C)   Wet and dry heat rooms, steam or vapor rooms or cabinets, shower rooms
and compartments, toilet rooms and pools shall be thoroughly cleaned and
disinfected as needed and at least once each day the premises are open with a
disinfectant approved by the health department. Bathtubs shall be thoroughly
cleaned with a disinfectant approved by the health department after each use.
All walls, ceilings, floors and other physical facilities for the establishment
must be in good repair and maintained in a clean and sanitary condition.
   (D)   Massages shall not be given unless patrons are wearing clothing, or
are draped, fully covering their genitals and female patrons are in addition
wearing clothing, or are draped, fully covering their breasts. Where such
clothing, or draping, is furnished patrons by the establishment, it shall not
be used by more than one patron unless it has first been laundered and
disinfected. Massage therapists and massage practitioners shall be fully
clothed from the knee to the neck in clean clothing.
   (E)   No massage establishment shall operate as a school of massage, nor use
the same facilities as that of a school of massage. It shall be unlawful for
any person to perform massage upon a member of the general public while on the
premises of a school of massage. Instructors and students of such schools may
practice massage only upon a bona fide employee of the school or student. A
dummy may be used. (Ord. 2015-1, 2-17-2015)
5-18-16: PENALTY FOR VIOLATION:
Any person violating the provisions of this chapter shall be reported to CMTC
and shall be subject to those penalties as prescribed by title I, chapter 4 of
this code for a violation of this code. (Ord. 2015-1, 2-17-2015)
5-18-17: CONDUCTING AS A NUISANCE:
Any massage establishment operated, conducted or maintained contrary to the
provisions of this chapter or of applicable statute shall be and the same is
hereby declared to be unlawful and a public nuisance and the city attorney may,
in addition to or in lieu of prosecuting a criminal action hereunder, commence
an action or actions, proceeding or proceedings, for the abatement, removal or
enjoinment thereof in the manner provided by law or by this code; and shall
take such other steps and shall apply to such court or courts as may have
jurisdiction to grant such relief as will abate or remove such massage
establishment and restrain and enjoin any person from operating, conducting or
maintaining a massage establishment contrary to the provisions of this chapter
or applicable statute. (Ord. 2015-1, 2-17-2015)
5-18-18: EXCEPTIONS:
The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to the following classes of
individuals while engaged in the performance of the duties of their respective
professions:
   (A)   Physicians, surgeons, chiropractors, osteopaths or physical therapists
who are duly licensed to practice their respective professions in the state of
California.
   (B)   Hospitals, nursing homes, sanatoriums or other healthcare facilities
duly licensed by the state of California.
   (C)   Nurses registered under the laws of the state of California.
   (D)   Barbershops and beauty parlors, barbers and beauticians who are duly
licensed under the laws of the state, provided that such massage is limited to
the head and scalp.
   (E)   Accredited high schools and colleges, and coaches and trainers therein
while acting within the scope of their employment.
   (F)   Trainers of any amateur, semiprofessional or professional athlete or
athletic team. (Ord. 2015-1, 2-17-2015)
5-18-19: SEVERABILITY:
If any section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase
in this chapter is for any reason held to be unconstitutional or invalid or
ineffective by any court of competent jurisdiction, such decision shall not
affect the validity or effectiveness of the remaining portions of this chapter.
The council hereby declares that it would have passed each section, subsection,
subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase thereof irrespective of the
fact that any one or more sections, subsections, subdivisions, paragraphs,
sentences, clauses or phrases be declared unconstitutional, invalid or
ineffective. (Ord. 2015-1, 2-17-2015)
5-18-20: APPLICATION OF ORDINANCE TO EXISTING BUSINESSES:
The provisions of this chapter shall be applicable to all persons and
businesses described herein whether the herein described activities were
established before or after the effective date of this chapter. (Ord. 2015-1,
2-17-2015)
CHAPTER 19
CABLE TELEVISION FRANCHISES
SECTION:
5-19-1: Intent
5-19-2: Short Title
5-19-3: Definitions
5-19-4: Grant Of Franchise
5-19-5: Regulation Of Franchise
5-19-6: Design And Construction Requirements
5-19-7: Reports
5-19-8: System Evaluation
5-19-9: Franchise Breaches
5-19-10: Miscellaneous Provisions
5-19-1: INTENT:
   (A)   The City, pursuant to applicable Federal and State law, is authorized
to grant one or more nonexclusive franchises to construct, operate, maintain
and reconstruct cable television systems within the City limits.
   (B)   The City Council finds that the development of cable television and
communications systems has the potential of having great benefit and impact
upon the residents of the City. Because of the complex and rapidly changing
technology associated with cable television, the City Council further finds
that the public convenience, safety and general welfare can best be served by
establishing regulatory powers which should be vested in the City or such
persons as the City may designate. It is the intent of this Chapter and
subsequent amendments to provide for and specify the means to attain the best
possible cable television service to the public, and any franchises issued
pursuant to this Chapter shall be deemed to include this as an integral finding
thereof. (Ord. 95-10, 7-25-95)
5-19-2: SHORT TITLE:
This Chapter shall be known and may be cited as the CABLE TELEVISION ORDINANCE.
(Ord. 95-10, 7-25-95)
5-19-3: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this Chapter, the following terms, phrases, words and their
derivations shall have the meaning given herein. Words used in the present
tense include the future, words in the plural number include the singular
number, and words in the singular number include the plural number. Words not
defined shall be given their common and ordinary meaning.
   BASIC CABLE SERVICE: Any service tier which includes the retransmission of
local television broadcast signals.
   CABLE SERVICE: The total of the following:
   (A)   The one-way transmission to subscribers of video programming or other
programming service; and
   (B)   Subscriber interaction, if any, which is required for the selection of
such video programming or other programming service.
   CABLE TELEVISION SYSTEM: "Cable television system" or "system", also
referred to as "cable communications system" or "cable system", means a
facility within the City consisting of a set of closed transmission paths and
associated signal generation, reception, and control equipment, that is
designed to provide cable service which includes video programming and which is
provided to multiple subscribers within a community, but such term does not
include:
   (A)   A facility that serves only to transmit television signals of one or
more television broadcast stations;
   (B)   A facility that serves only subscribers in one or more multiple unit
dwellings under common ownership, control, or management, unless such facility
uses any public rights of way;
   (C)   A facility of a common carrier, except that such facility shall be
considered a cable system to the extent such facility is used in the
transmission of video programming directly to subscribers; or
   (D)   Any facilities of any electric utility used solely for operating its
electric utility system.
   CHANNEL: "Channel" or "cable channel" means a portion of the electromagnetic
frequency spectrum which is used in a cable system which is capable of
delivering a television channel as defined by the Federal Communications
Commission.
   COUNCIL: The City Council of the City of Selma.
   FRANCHISE: An initial authorization, or renewal thereof, issued by the
Council, whether such authorization is designated as a franchise, permit,
license, resolution, contract, certificate, agreement, or otherwise, which
authorizes the construction or operation of a cable system.
   FRANCHISE AGREEMENT: A franchise grant ordinance or a contractual agreement,
containing the specific provisions of the franchise granted, including
references, specifications, requirements and other related matters.
   FRANCHISE FEE: Any fee or assessment of any kind imposed by the City, as
grantor, on a grantee as compensation for the grantee's use of the public
rights of way. The term "franchise fee" does not include:
   (A)   Any tax, fee or assessment of general applicability (including any
such tax, fee, or assessment imposed on both utilities and cable operators or
their services, but not including a tax, fee or assessment which is
discriminatory against cable operators or cable subscribers);
   (B)   Capital costs which are required by the franchise to be incurred by
grantee for public, educational, or governmental access facilities;
   (C)   Requirements or charges incidental to the awarding of the franchise,
including payments for bonds, security funds, letters of credit, insurance,
indemnification, penalties, or liquidated damages; or
   (D)   Any fee imposed under title 47, United States Code.
   GRANTEE: Any "person" receiving a franchise pursuant to this Chapter and
under the granting franchise agreement, and its lawful successors, transferees
or assignees.
   GRANTOR: "Grantor" or "City" means the City as represented by the Council or
any delegate acting within the scope of its jurisdiction.
   GROSS ANNUAL REVENUES: The annual gross revenues received by a grantee from
all sources of operations of the cable television system within the City
utilizing the public streets and rights of way for which a franchise is
required in order to deliver such cable service, excluding refundable deposits,
rebates or credits, except that any sales, excise or other taxes or charges
collected for direct pass-through to local, State or Federal government, other
than the franchise fee, shall not be included.
   INITIAL SERVICE AREA: The area of the City which will receive cable service
initially, as set forth in any franchise agreement.
   INSTALLATION: The connection of the system to subscribers' terminals, and
the provision of cable service.
   NORMAL BUSINESS HOURS: Those hours during which most similar businesses in
the City are open to serve customers. In all cases, normal business hours shall
include some evening hours at least one night a week and/or some weekend hours.
   PERSON: An individual, partnership, association, limited liability company,
joint stock company, trust, corporation or governmental entity.
   PUBLIC, EDUCATIONAL OR GOVERNMENT ACCESS FACILITIES: "Public educational or
government access facilities" or "PEG access facilities" means the total of the
following:
   (A)   Channel capacity designated for noncommercial public, educational, or
government use; and
   (B)   Facilities and equipment for the use of such channel capacity.
   SECTION: Any section, subsection or provision of this Chapter.
   SERVICE AREA: "Service area" or "franchise area" means the entire geographic
area within the City as it is now constituted or may in the future be
constituted, unless otherwise specified in the franchise.
   SERVICE INTERRUPTION: The loss of picture or sound on one or more channels.
   SERVICE TIER: A category of cable service or other services provided by a
grantee and for which a separate rate is charged by the grantee.
   STATE: The State of California.
   STREET: Each of the following, which have been dedicated to the public or
are hereafter dedicated to the public and maintained under public authority or
by others and located within the City limits: streets, roadways, highways,
avenues, lanes, alleys, sidewalks, easements, rights of way and similar public
property and areas that the grantor shall permit to be included within the
definition of street from time to time.
   SUBSCRIBER: Any person who or which elects to subscribe to, for any purpose,
a service provided by the grantee by means of or in connection with the cable
television system, and who is responsible for paying the charges therefor.
(Ord. 95-10, 7-25-95)
5-19-4: GRANT OF FRANCHISE:
   (A)   Grant: A franchise granted by the City under the provisions of this
Chapter shall encompass the following purposes:
      1.   To engage in the business of providing cable service, and such other
services as may be permitted by law, which grantee chooses to provide, to
subscribers within the designated service area.
      2.   To erect, install, construct, repair, rebuild, reconstruct, replace,
maintain, and retain, cable lines, related electronic equipment, supporting
structures, appurtenances, and other property in connection with the operation
of the cable television system in, on, over, under, upon along and across
streets or other public places within the designated service area.
      3.   To maintain and operate said franchise properties for the
origination, reception, transmission, amplification, and distribution of
television and radio signals and for the delivery of cable services, and such
other services as may be permitted by law.
      4.   To set forth the obligations of a grantee under the franchise.
   (B)   Franchise Required: It shall be unlawful for any person to construct,
install or operate a cable television system in the City within any street
without a properly granted franchise awarded pursuant to the provisions of this
Chapter.
   (C)   Term Of Franchise: A franchise granted hereunder shall be for a term
established in the franchise agreement, commencing on the grantor's adoption of
an ordinance or resolution authorizing the franchise.
   (D)   Franchise Renewal: A franchise granted hereunder may be renewed upon
application by the grantee pursuant to the provisions of applicable State and
Federal law and of this Chapter.
   (E)   Franchise Territory: Any franchise shall be valid within all the
territorial limits of the City, and within any area added to the City during
the term of the franchise, unless otherwise specified in the franchise
agreement.
   (F)   Federal Or State Jurisdiction: This Chapter shall be construed in a
manner consistent with all applicable Federal and State laws, and shall apply
to all franchises granted or renewed after the effective date of this Chapter
to the extent permitted by applicable law.
   (G)   Franchise Nontransferable:
      1.   Grantee shall not sell, transfer, lease, assign, sublet or dispose
of, in whole or in part, either by forced or involuntary sale, or by ordinary
sale, contract, consolidation or otherwise, the franchise or any of the rights
or privileges therein granted, without the prior consent of the Council and
then only upon such terms and conditions as may be prescribed by the Council,
which consent shall not be unreasonably denied or delayed; provided that such
consent shall not be required for transactions between any parent, subsidiary
or commonly owned entities. Any attempt to sell, transfer, lease, assign or
otherwise dispose of the franchise without the consent of the Council shall be
null and void. The granting of a security interest in any grantee assets, or
any mortgage or other hypothecation solely for purposes of financing, shall not
be itself be considered a transfer for the purposes of this Section.
      2.   The requirements of subsection (G)1 shall apply to any change of
control of grantee. The word "control" as used herein is not limited to major
stockholder or partnership interests, but includes actual working control in
whatever manner exercised. The acquisition or accumulation by any person or
group of persons acting in privity of forty percent (40%) of the voting shares
or interests in grantee or any person which controls grantee shall be presumed
to constitute a change of control of grantee, but grantee shall be entitled to
rebut such presumption.
      3.   Grantee shall notify grantor in writing of any foreclosure or any
other judicial sale of all or a substantial part of the franchise property of
the grantee. Such notification shall be considered by grantor as notice that a
change in control of ownership of the franchise has taken place and the
provisions under this Section governing the consent of grantor to such change
in control of ownership shall apply.
      4.   For the purpose of determining whether it shall consent to such
change, sale, transfer, lease, assignment, sublease, disposal, or acquisition
of control, grantor may inquire into the qualifications of the prospective
transferee or controlling party, and grantee shall assist grantor in such
inquiry. In seeking grantor's consent to any change of ownership or control,
grantee shall have the responsibility of insuring that the transferee completes
any required application identical or substantially similar to FCC Form 394
"Application for Franchise Authority Consent to Assignment of Control of Cable
Television Franchise", or any successor form. An application shall be submitted
to grantor not less than sixty (60) days prior to the date of transfer. The
transferee shall be required to establish that it possesses the qualifications
and financial and technical capability to operate and maintain the system and
comply with all franchise requirements for the remainder of the term of the
franchise. If the legal, financial, character, and technical qualifications of
the applicant are satisfactory, the grantor shall consent to the transfer of
the franchise on such terms and conditions as it determines in its discretion.
The consent of the grantor to such transfer shall not be unreasonably denied or
delayed.
      5.   Any financial institution having a pledge of the grantee or its
assets for the advancement of money for the construction and/or operation of
the franchise shall have the right to notify the grantor that it or its
designee satisfactory to the grantor shall take control of and operate the
cable television system, in the event of a grantee default of its financial
obligations. Further, said financial institution shall also submit a plan for
such operation within thirty (30) days of assuming such control that will
insure, to the grantor's satisfaction, continued service and compliance with
all franchise requirements of at least the same level during the term the
financial institution exercises control over the system. The financial
institution shall not exercise control over the system for a period exceeding
one year unless extended by the grantor in its discretion, and during said
period of time it shall have the right to petition the grantor to transfer the
franchise to another grantee.
      6.   Upon consummation of the transfer, grantee shall pay grantor an
application fee to cover grantor's reasonable out- of-pocket processing and
review expenses in connection with the transfer of the franchise or of control
of the franchise, not to exceed one thousand five hundred dollars ($1,500.00).
Any such application fee shall not be charged against any franchise fee due to
grantor during the term of the franchise.
   (H)   Geographical Coverage:
      1.   Grantee shall design, construct and maintain the cable television
system to have the capability to pass every dwelling unit within the public
streets and rights of way in the City, subject to any service area and line
extension requirements of the franchise agreement.
      2.   After service has been established by activating trunk and/or
distribution cables for any service area, grantee shall provide service to any
requesting subscriber within that service area within thirty (30) days from the
date of request, provided that the grantee is able to secure all rights of way
necessary to extend service to such subscriber within such thirty (30) day
period on reasonable terms and conditions.
   (I)   Nonexclusive Franchise: Any franchise granted shall be nonexclusive.
The grantor specifically reserves the right to grant, at any time, such
additional franchises for a cable television system or any component thereof,
as it deems appropriate, subject to applicable State and Federal law, provided
that if the grantor grants an additional franchise on terms more favorable to
the second grantee (whether by the grant of greater benefits or the imposition
of lesser obligations), then the initial grantee shall have the right to
renegotiate its franchise to incorporate the more favorable terms.
   (J)   Multiple Franchises:
      1.   Grantor may grant any number of franchises subject to applicable
State or Federal law. Grantor may limit the number of franchises granted, based
upon, but not necessarily limited to, the requirements of applicable law and
specific local considerations, such as:
         (a)   The capacity of the public rights of way to accommodate multiple
cables in addition to the cables, conduits and pipes of the utility systems,
such as electrical power, telephone, gas and sewerage.
         (b)   The benefits that may accrue to cable subscribers as a result of
cable system competition, such as lower rates and improved service.
         (c)   The disadvantages that may result from cable system competition,
such as the requirement for multiple pedestals on residents' property, and the
disruption arising from numerous excavations of the rights of way.
      2.   Each grantee awarded a franchise to serve the entire City shall
offer service to all residences in the City, in accordance with construction
and service schedules mutually agreed upon between grantor and grantee, line
extension policies, and applicable law.
      3.   Developers of new residential housing with underground utilities
shall provide conduit to accommodate cables for at least two (2) cable systems.
      4.   Grantor may require that any new grantee be responsible for its own
underground trenching and the costs associated therewith, if, in grantor's
opinion, the rights of way in any particular area cannot feasibly and
reasonably accommodate additional cables. (Ord. 95-10, 7-25-95)
5-19-5: REGULATION OF FRANCHISE:
   (A)   Franchise Application: Any person desiring an initial franchise for a
cable television system shall file an application with the City. A reasonable
nonrefundable application fee established by the City shall accompany the
application to cover all costs associated with processing and reviewing the
application, including without limitation costs of administrative review,
financial, legal and technical evaluation of the applicant, consultants
(including technical and legal experts and all costs incurred by such experts),
notice and publication requirements with respect to the consideration of the
application and document preparation expenses. In the event such costs exceed
the application fee, the selected applicant(s) shall pay the difference to the
City within thirty (30) days following receipt of an itemized statement of such
costs.
   (B)   Application Contents: An application for an initial franchise for a
cable television system shall contain, where applicable:
      1.   A statement as to the proposed franchise and service area;
      2.   A resume of prior history of the applicant, including the expertise
of applicant in the cable television field;
      3.   A list of the partners, general and limited, of the applicant, if a
partnership, or of those owning or controlling over five percent (5%) of the
stock, if a corporation;
      4.   A list of officers, directors and managing employees of the
applicant, together with a description of the background of each such person;
      5.   The names and addresses of any parent or subsidiary of the applicant
or any other business entity owning or controlling the applicant in whole or in
part, or owned or controlled in whole or in part by the applicant;
      6.   The most recent financial statement of the applicant verified by a
certified public accountant audit or otherwise certified to be true, complete
and correct to the reasonable satisfaction of the City;
      7.   A proposed construction and service schedule;
      8.   Any reasonable additional information that the City deems
applicable.
   (C)   Consideration Of Applications:
      1.   Upon receipt of any application for an initial franchise, the City
Manager shall prepare a report and make recommendations respecting such
application to the Council.
      2.   A public hearing shall be set and noticed prior to any initial
franchise grant, at a time and date approved by the Council. Within thirty (30)
days after the close of the hearing, the Council shall make a decision based
upon the evidence received at the hearing as to whether or not the franchise(s)
should be granted, and, if granted, subject to what conditions. The Council may
grant one or more franchises, or may decline to grant any franchise.
   (D)   Franchise Renewal: Franchise renewals shall be in accordance with
applicable law. Grantor and grantee, by mutual consent, may enter into renewal
negotiations at any time during the term of the franchise. If mutually agreed
to in a franchise renewal agreement, grantee shall reimburse grantor for costs
incidental to the franchise renewal award, not to exceed any maximum specified
in the renewal agreement. Any such reimbursement shall not be charged against
any franchise fee due to the grantor during the term of the franchise.
   (E)   Minimum Consumer Protection And Service Standards:
      1.   Except as otherwise provided in the franchise agreement, grantee
shall maintain a local area office (not necessarily within the City limits) to
provide the necessary facilities, equipment and personnel to comply with the
following consumer protection and service standards under normal operating
conditions:
         (a)   Knowledgeable, qualified company representatives will be
available to respond to customer telephone inquiries Monday through Friday
during normal business hours.
         (b)   Sufficient toll-free telephone line capacity during normal
business hours to assure, on average, that a minimum of ninety percent (90%) of
all calls, measured on a quarterly basis, will be answered within thirty (30)
seconds, including wait time and time required to transfer the call; emergency
telephone line capacity on a twenty four (24) hour basis, including weekends
and holidays.
         (c)   Under normal operating conditions, the customer will receive a
busy signal less than three percent (3%) of the total time that the cable
office is open for business.
         (d)   If grantee utilizes an automated answering and distributing
equipment, such equipment will limit the number of routine rings to four (4) or
fewer. If grantee does not utilize automated equipment, grantee shall make
every effort to answer incoming calls as promptly as the automated systems.
         (e)   A local area bill payment location open during normal business
hours nine o'clock (9:00) A.M. to five o'clock (5:00) P.M., Monday to Friday,
excluding holidays and at least three (3) weekend hours each week which is
adequately staffed to accept subscriber payments.
         (f)   Consumer Information: At the time service is initiated and as
required by Federal or State law, of FCC regulations, each customer will be
provided written information covering:
            (1) A channel lineup card.
            (2) The time allowed to pay outstanding bills.
            (3) Grounds for termination of service.
            (4) The steps grantee must take before terminating service.
            (5) How the customer can resolve billing disputes.
            (6) The steps necessary to have service reconnected after
involuntary termination.
            (7) The fact that customers shall have the right to speak with a
supervisor, and if none is available, the supervisor shall return the
customer's call within one working day.
            (8) The appropriate regulatory authority with whom to register a
complaint and how to contact such authority.
            (9) Any other information required by the City, or Federal or State
law or by FCC regulations.
         (g)   Requests For Cable Service And Repairs:
            (1) Grantee shall render efficient service, make repairs promptly,
and interrupt service only for good cause and for the shortest time possible.
Scheduled interruptions exceeding four (4) hours between twelve o'clock (12:00)
midnight and six o'clock (6:00) A.M. and exceeding one hour between six o'clock
(6:00) A.M. and twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight shall be preceded by notice
over the cable system to customers in the affected area. To the extent that
grantee can control them, scheduled interruptions shall occur during a period
of minimum system use, preferably between twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight and
six o'clock (6:00) A.M.
            (2) Grantee shall maintain a repair force of technicians capable of
responding to subscriber requests for service within the following time frames
under normal operating conditions no less than ninety five percent (95%) of the
time measured on a quarterly basis:
               (a)   Installation: An installation staff capable of installing
service to any residential subscriber within seven (7) business days after
receipt of a request, in all areas where coaxial feeder cable has been
activated within one hundred fifty feet (150') of the residence, provided that
grantee is able to secure all rights of way necessary to extend service to such
subscriber on reasonable terms and conditions within such seven (7) day period.
               (b)   Outages: Grantee will respond to service interruptions
promptly and in no event later than twenty four (24) consecutive hours after
becoming aware of such interruption. Other service problems will be responded
to within thirty six (36) consecutive hours during the normal work week.
               (c)   Inferior Reception Quality: Grantee will respond within
thirty six (36) consecutive hours during the normal work week of receiving a
request for service identifying a problem concerning picture or sound quality.
            (3) Grantee shall schedule, within a specified four (4) hour time
period, appointments with subscribers for installation or service. Specifying
appointments as either "morning" or "afternoon" shall be deemed to comply with
this requirement. The obligation of grantee to specify installation or service
appointments within a designated four (4) hour time period shall be consistent
with grantee's scheduling calendar, such that when available morning and
afternoon appointments have been scheduled, additional subscribers requesting
installation or service on such days may be advised that grantee's service
personnel may arrive at any point during the business day, the subscriber may
request grantee to make an appointment for morning or afternoon service on the
next business day in which such appointments are available.
            (4) Grantee shall be deemed to have responded to a request for
service under provisions of this subsection when a service representative
arrives at the service location and begins work on the problem. If an
appointment was scheduled, per subsection (g)(3), or an appointment was not
scheduled, and a subscriber is not home when a service representative arrives
(within the appointment window if one was scheduled), response shall be deemed
to have taken place if the representative leaves written notification of
arrival.
            (5) The term "normal operating conditions" as used in this Chapter
means those service conditions which are within the control of grantee. Those
conditions which are not within grantee's control include, but are not limited
to, natural disasters, civil disturbances, power outages, telephone network
outages, and severe or unusual weather conditions. Those conditions which are
within grantee's control include, but are not limited to, special promotions,
pay-per-view events, rate increases, regular peak or seasonal demand periods,
and maintenance or upgrade of the cable system.
   (F)   Complaint Procedures:
      1.   Grantee shall establish written procedures for receiving, acting
upon and resolving subscriber complaints without intervention by the grantor.
The written procedures shall prescribe the manner in which a subscriber may
submit a complaint either orally or in writing specifying the subscriber's
grounds for dissatisfaction. Grantee shall file a copy of these procedures with
grantor.
      2.   Grantor shall have the right to review grantee's response to
subscriber complaints in order to determine grantee's compliance with the
franchise requirements, subject to the subscriber's right to privacy.
   (G)   Continuity Of Service:
      1.   It shall be the right of all subscribers to continue receiving
service insofar as their financial and other obligations to the grantee are
honored. In the event that the grantee elects to rebuild, modify, or sell the
system, or the grantor gives notice of intent to terminate or not to renew the
franchise, the grantee shall act so as to ensure that all subscribers receive
service so long as the franchise remains in force.
      2.   In the event of a change of control of grantee, or in the event a
new operator acquires the system, the original grantee shall cooperate with the
grantor, new grantee or operator in maintaining continuity of service to all
subscribers. During such period, the original grantee shall be entitled to the
revenues for any period during which it operates the system.
      3.   Except as reasonably necessary for system maintenance, construction,
rebuild, or upgrade activity, grantee shall not intentionally terminate the
ongoing operation of the cable system so as to deny cable service to its
subscribers. Because the provision of cable service to subscribers is a unique
service, money damages would not be a sufficient remedy for violation of this
subsection. Grantor shall be entitled to equitable relief, including injunctive
relief and specific performance, as a remedy for violation of this subsection.
Such remedy shall not be deemed to be the exclusive remedy, but shall be in
addition to any other remedy provided for in this Chapter or the franchise
agreement or at law or in equity.
   (H)   Identification: All officers, agents or employees of grantee or its
contractors or subcontractors who, in the normal course of work come into
contact with members of the public or who require entry onto subscribers'
premises shall carry a photo-identification card in a form reasonably approved
by grantor. Grantee shall account for all identification cards at all times.
Every vehicle of the grantee or its major subcontractors shall be clearly
identified as working for grantee.
   (I)   Additional Service Standards: Additional service standards and
standards governing consumer protection and response by grantee to subscriber
complaints not otherwise provided for in this Chapter may be established in the
franchise agreement, and grantee shall comply with such standards in the
operations of the cable television system. A verified and continuing pattern of
noncompliance may be deemed a material breach of the franchise, provided that
grantee shall receive due process, including written notification and an
opportunity to cure, prior to any sanction being imposed.
   (J)   Franchise Fee:
      1.   Following the issuance and acceptance of the franchise, the grantee
shall pay to the grantor a franchise fee in the amount set forth in the
franchise agreement.
      2.   The grantor, on an annual basis, shall be furnished a statement
within sixty (60) days of the close of the calendar year, either audited and
certified by an independent certified public accountant or certified by an
officer of the grantee, reflecting the total amounts of gross annual receipts
and all payments, deductions and computations for the period covered by the
payment. Upon thirty (30) days prior written notice, grantor shall have the
right to conduct an independent audit of grantee's records, in accordance with
generally accepted accounting procedures, and if such audit indicates a
franchise fee underpayment of two percent (2%) or more, the grantee shall pay
such underpayment within thirty (30) days and shall assume all reasonable costs
of such an audit.
      3.   Except as otherwise provided by law, no acceptance of any payment by
the grantor shall be construed as a release or as an accord and satisfaction of
any claim the grantor may have for further or additional sums payable as a
franchise fee under this Chapter or under the franchise agreement, for the
performance of any other obligation of the grantee.
      4.   In the event that any franchise payment or recomputed amount is not
made on or before the dates specified in the franchise agreement, grantee shall
pay as additional compensation:
         (a)   An interest charge, computed from such due date, at an annual
rate equal to the prime lending rate of First Interstate Bank or any other bank
as adopted by resolution of the Council, plus one percent (1%) during the
period for which payment was due; and
         (b)   If the payment is late by forty five (45) days or more, a sum of
money equal to five percent (5%) of the amount due in order to defray those
additional expenses and costs incurred by the grantor by reason of delinquent
payment.
      5.   Franchise fee payments shall be made in accordance with the schedule
indicated in the franchise agreement.
   (K)   Security Fund:
      1.   Grantor may require grantee to provide a security fund in an amount
and form established in the franchise agreement or a guarantee by a corporate
parent. The amount of any security fund shall be established based on the
extent of the grantee's obligations under the terms of the franchise.
      2.   The security fund or guarantee shall be available to grantor to
satisfy all claims, liens and/or taxes due grantor from grantee which arise by
reason of construction, operation, or maintenance of the system, and to satisfy
an actual or liquidated damages arising out of a franchise breach, subject to
the procedures and amounts designated in the franchise agreement.
      3.   If the security fund is drawn upon by grantor in accordance with the
procedures established in this Chapter and the franchise agreement, grantee
shall cause the security fund to be replenished to the original amount no later
than thirty (30) days after each withdrawal by grantor. Failure to replenish
the security fund shall be deemed a material breach of the franchise.
   (L)   Hold Harmless: Grantee shall indemnify, defend and hold grantor, its
Council, board, commissions, officers, agents and employees harmless from any
liability, loss, claims, damages, costs or expenses, to the extent provided in
the franchise agreement.
   (M)   Insurance:
      1.   On or before commencement of franchise operations, the grantee shall
obtain policies of liability, workers' compensation and property insurance from
appropriately qualified insurance companies.
      2.   The policy of liability insurance shall:
         (a)   Be issued to grantee and name grantor, its Council, boards,
commissions, officers, agents and employees as additional insureds;
         (b)   Indemnify for all liability for personal and bodily injury,
death and damage to property arising from activities conducted and premises
used pursuant to this Chapter by providing coverage therefor, including but not
limited to:
            (1) Negligent acts or omissions of grantee, and its agents,
servants and employees, committed in the conduct of franchise operations, and/
or
            (2) Use of motor vehicles;
         (c)   Provide a combined single limit for comprehensive general
liability and comprehensive automobile liability insurance in the amount
provided for in the franchise agreement. Such insurance policy shall be
noncancellable without thirty (30) days prior written notice thereof directed
to grantor.
      3.   The policy of workers' compensation insurance shall comply with the
laws of the State.
      4.   The policy of property insurance shall provide fire insurance with
extended coverage on the franchise property used by grantee in the conduct of
franchise operations in an amount adequate to enable grantee to resume
franchise operations following the occurrence of any risk covered by this
insurance.
      5.   Grantee shall file with grantor prior to commencement of franchise
operations a certificate of insurance for each of the required policies
executed by the company issuing the policy or by a broker authorized to issue
such a certificate, certifying that the policy is in force and providing the
following information with respect to said policy:
         (a)   The policy number;
         (b)   The date upon which the policy will become effective and the
date upon which it will expire;
         (c)   The names of the named insureds and any additional insured
required by the franchise agreement;
         (d)   The subject of the insurance;
         (e)   The type of coverage provided by the insurance; and
         (f)   The amount or limit of coverage provided by the insurance.
If the certificate of insurance does not provide all of the above information,
grantor reserves the right to inspect the relevant insurance policies.
      6.   Conduct of franchise operations shall not commence until grantee has
complied with the aforementioned provisions of this subsection.
      7.   In the event grantee fails to maintain any of the above- described
policies in full force and effect, grantor shall, upon forty eight (48) hours
notice to grantee, have the right to procure the required insurance and recover
the cost thereof from grantee. Grantor shall also have the right to suspend the
franchise during any period that grantee fails to maintain said policies in
full force and effect. In order to account for increases in consumer prices, no
more than once during any five (5) year period, grantor shall have the right to
order grantee to increase the amounts of the insurance provided in the
franchise agreement. Such order may be made by grantor at a regular City
Council meeting at which grantee has adequate notice and opportunity to address
the issue. Increases in insurance coverage shall be based upon current prudent
business practices of like enterprises involving the same or similar risks.
   (N)   Records Required And Grantor's Right To Inspect:
      1.   Grantee shall at all times maintain:
         (a)   A record of all service calls and interruptions or degradation
of service experienced for the preceding two (2) years, provided that such
complaints result in or require a service call, subject to the subscriber's
right of privacy.
         (b)   A full and complete set of plans, records and "as-built" maps
showing the locations of the cable television system installed or in use in the
City, exclusive of subscriber service drops and equipment provided in
subscriber's homes.
         (c)   If requested by grantor, a summary of service calls, identifying
the number, general nature and disposition of such calls, on a quarterly basis.
A summary of such service calls shall be submitted to the grantor within thirty
(30) days following any grantor request, in a form reasonably acceptable to the
grantor.
      2.   The grantor may impose reasonable requirements for additional
information, records and documents from time to time, provided they reasonably
relate to the scope of the City's rights under this Chapter or the grantee's
franchise agreement.
      3.   Upon reasonable notice, and during normal business hours, grantee
shall permit examination by any duly authorized representative of the grantor
of all franchise property and facilities, together with any appurtenant
property and facilities of grantee situated within or without the City, and all
records relating to the franchise, provided they are necessary to enable the
grantor to carry out its regulatory responsibilities under this Chapter or the
franchise agreement. Grantee shall have the right to be present at any such
examination. (Ord. 95-10, 7-25-95)
5-19-6: DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION REQUIREMENTS:
   (A)   Grantee shall not construct any cable system facilities until grantee
has secured the necessary permits from grantor, or other cognizant public
agencies.
   (B)   In those areas of the City where transmission lines or distribution
facilities of the public utilities providing telephone and electric power
service are underground, the grantee likewise shall construct, operate and
maintain its transmission and distribution facilities therein underground.
   (C)   In those areas of the City where the grantee's cables are located on
the aboveground transmission or distribution facilities of the public utility
providing telephone or electric power service, and in the event that the
facilities of both such public utilities subsequently are placed underground,
then the grantee likewise shall reconstruct, operate and maintain its
transmission and distribution facilities underground, at grantees' cost.
Certain of grantee's equipment, such as pedestals, amplifiers and power
supplies, which normally are placed above ground, may continue to remain in
aboveground enclosures, unless otherwise provided in the franchise agreement.
   (D)   Any changes in or extensions of any poles, anchors, wires, cables,
conduits, vaults, laterals or other fixtures and equipment (herein referred to
as "structures"), or the construction of any additional structures, in, upon,
along, across, under or over the streets, alleys and public ways shall be made
only after grantee has secured all permits required therefor and under the
direction of grantor's City Engineer or a designee. The height above public
thoroughfares of all aerial wires shall conform to the requirements of the
California Public Utilities Commission or other regulatory body having
jurisdiction thereof.
      1.   All transmission and distribution structures, lines and equipment
erected by the grantee shall be constructed and located so as not to interfere
with the proper use of streets, alleys and other public ways and places, and to
cause minimum interference with the rights of reasonable convenience of
property owners who adjoin any of the said streets, alleys or other public ways
and places, and not to interfere with existing public utility installations.
      2.   In the event that any property or improvement of the grantor in the
public rights of way is disturbed or damaged by the grantee or any of its
contractors, agents or employees in connection with undertaking any and all
work pursuant to the right granted to the grantee pursuant to this Chapter, the
grantee shall promptly, at the grantee's sole cost and expense, restore as
nearly as practicable to their former condition said property or improvement
which was so disturbed or damaged, and in the event that any such property or
improvement shall at any later time become uneven, unsettled or otherwise
require restoration, repair or replacement because of such disturbance or
damage by the grantee, then the grantee shall, promptly upon receipt of notice
from the grantor or otherwise and at the grantee's sole cost and expense,
restore as nearly as practicable to their former conditions said property or
improvement which was disturbed or damaged. Any such restoration by the grantee
shall be made in accordance with such materials and specifications as may, from
time to time, be then provided for by grantor ordinance.
      3.   Prior to commencing any work in the public rights of way, the
grantee shall obtain any and all permits lawfully required by such grantor
codes and ordinances of general application for such work. In the event that
emergency work may be required by the grantee, however, the grantee shall
obtain any and all such permits within three (3) working days after the
beginning of such emergency work.
      4.   There shall be no unreasonable or unnecessary obstruction of the
public rights of way by the grantee in connection with any of the work herein
provided for, and the grantee shall maintain such barriers, signs and warning
signals during any such work performed on or about the public rights of way or
adjacent thereto as may be required by applicable law and/or as may be
necessary to reasonably avoid injury or damage to life and property.
      5.   If at any time during the period of this franchise the grantor shall
lawfully elect to alter or change the grade or location of any street, alley or
other public rights of way, the grantee shall, upon reasonable notice by the
grantor, remove, relay and relocate its poles, wires, cables, underground
conduits, manholes and other fixtures at its own expense, and in each instance
shall comply with the requirements of the grantor.
      6.   The grantee shall not place poles, conduits or other fixtures above
or below ground where the same will interfere with any gas, electric, telephone
fixtures, water hydrants or other utility, and all such poles, conduits or
other fixtures placed in any street shall be so placed as to comply with all
ordinances of the grantor.
      7.   The grantee may be required by grantor to permit joint use of its
poles, conduits and appurtenances located in the streets, alleys or other
public rights of way, by utilities insofar as such joint use may be reasonably
practicable and upon payment of reasonable rental therefore; provided that in
the absence of agreement regarding such joint use, the Council shall provide
for arbitration of the terms and conditions of such joint use and the
compensation to be paid therefor, which award shall be final.
      8.   The grantee shall, on request of any person holding a moving permit
issued by the grantor, temporarily move its wires or fixtures to permit the
moving of buildings, the expense of such temporary removal to be paid by the
person requesting the same. The grantee shall be given not less than forty
eight (48) hours advance notice to arrange for such temporary changes, and may
require payment in advance.
      9.   The grantee shall have the authority, except when in conflict with
applicable grantor ordinances, to trim any trees upon and overhanging the
streets, alleys, sidewalks and public places so as to prevent the branches of
such trees from coming in contact with the wires and cables of the grantee,
except that at the option of the grantor, such trimming may be done by grantor,
or under grantor's supervision and direction.
   (E)   In new residential developments in which the electric power and
telephone utilities are underground, the following procedure shall apply with
respect to access to and utilization of underground easements:
      1.   The developer shall be responsible for contacting and surveying all
franchised cable operators to ascertain which operators desire to provide cable
service to that development. The developers may establish a reasonable deadline
to receive cable operator responses. The final development map shall indicate
the cable operators that have agreed to serve the development.
      2.   If one or two (2) cable operators wish to provide service, they
shall be accommodated in the joint utilities trench on a nondiscriminatory
shared cost basis. If fewer than two (2) operators indicate interest, the
developer shall provide conduit to accommodate two (2) sets of cable television
cables and dedicate to the City any initially unoccupied conduit. The developer
shall be entitled to recover the costs of such initially unoccupied conduit in
the event that grantor subsequently leases or sells occupancy or use rights to
any grantee.
      3.   The developer shall provide at least ten (10) working days notice of
the date that utility trenches will be open to the cable operators that have
agreed to serve the development. When the trenches are open, cable operators
shall have two (2) working days to begin the installation of their cables, and
five (5) working days after beginning installation to complete installation.
      4.   The final development map shall not be approved until the developer
submits evidence that it has, or has agreed in the subdivision agreement, that
it will:
         (a)   Notify each grantee that underground utility trenches are to be
open as of an estimated date, and that each grantee will be allowed access to
such trenches, including trenches from proposed streets to individual homes or
home sites, on specified nondiscriminatory terms and conditions; and
         (b)   Receive a written notification from each grantee that the
grantee intends to install its facilities during the open trench period on the
specified terms and conditions, or such other terms and conditions as are
mutually agreeable to the developer and the grantee, or receive no reply from a
grantee within ten (10) days after its notification to such grantee, in which
case the grantee will be deemed to have waived its opportunity to install its
facilities during the open trench period.
      5.   Share the joint utilities trench subject to compliance with State
regulatory agency and utility standards. If such compliance is not possible,
the developer shall provide a separate trench for the cable television cables,
with the entire cost shared among the developer and participating grantees.
With the concurrence of the developer, the affected utilities and the grantees,
alternative installation procedures, such as the use of deeper trenches, may be
utilized, subject to applicable law.
      6.   Any grantee wishing to serve an area where the trenches have been
closed shall be responsible for its own trenching and associated costs.
      7.   In the event that more than one franchise is awarded, the City may
limit the number of drop cables per residence, or to require that the drop
cable(s) be utilized only by the grantee selected by the resident to provide
service.
      8.   The City may grant an encroachment permit to a franchise applicant
to install conduit and/or cable in anticipation of the granting of a franchise.
Such installations shall be at the applicant's risk, with no recourse against
the City in the event the pending franchise application is not granted. The
City may require an applicant to provide a separate trench for its conduit and/
or cable, at the applicant's cost. The construction of such separate trench, if
provided, shall be coordinated with, and subject to, the developer's overall
construction schedule.
   (F)   Technical Standards:
      1.   The grantee shall construct, install, operate and maintain its
system in a manner consistent with all applicable Federal, State and local
laws, ordinances, construction standards, governmental requirements, FCC
technical standards, and any detailed standards set forth in its franchise
agreement. In addition, the grantee shall provide to the grantor, a copy of all
written reports of the results of the grantee's periodic proof of performance
tests conducted pursuant to FCC and franchise standards and guidelines.
      2.   Repeated and verified failure to maintain specified technical
standards shall constitute a material breach of the franchise. (Ord. 95-10, 7-
25-95)
5-19-7: REPORTS:
   (A)   Annual Reports: Within ninety (90) days after the end of the calendar
year, unless grantor agrees that submission only upon request will be
satisfactory, grantee shall submit a written annual report to grantor with
respect to the preceding calendar year in a form reasonably approved by
grantor, including, but not limited to, the following information:
      1.   A summary of the previous year's (or in the case of the initial
reporting year, the initial year's) activities in development of the cable
system, including but not limited to, services begun or discontinued during the
reporting year;
      2.   A list of grantee's partners, officers, members of its board of
directors, and/or other principals of grantee;
      3.   A list of stockholders of record or other equity investors holding
ten percent (10%) or more of the voting interest in grantee;
      4.   An indication of any residences in grantee's service area where
service is not available, and a schedule for providing service;
      5.   Information as to the number of homes passed, subscribers,
additional television outlets, and the number of basic and pay subscribers; and
      6.   Any other information regarding franchise regulation which the
grantor shall reasonably request, and which is relevant to its regulatory
responsibilities.
   (B)   Copies Of Federal And State Communications:
      1.   Upon specific request, grantee shall submit to grantor copies of all
pleadings, applications and reports submitted by grantee to, as well as copies
of all decisions, correspondence and actions by, any Federal, State or local
court or regulatory agency, which are nonroutine in nature and which will
materially affect its cable television operations within the franchise area.
Information otherwise confidential by law and specifically designated as such
by grantee, which is submitted to grantor, shall be retained in confidence by
grantor and its authorized agents and shall not be made available for public
inspection. In the event of legal challenge to grantor's withholding of any
such information, grantee shall be responsible for defending against such
challenge and shall indemnify grantor against any costs, expenses (including
attorneys' fees ), losses, judgments or liabilities in connection therewith.
      2.   Notwithstanding the foregoing, grantee shall have no obligation to
provide copies of documents to grantor which contain trade secrets of grantee
or which are otherwise of a confidential or proprietary nature to grantee
unless it receives satisfactory assurances from grantor that such information
can and will be held in strictest confidence by the grantor. To the extent
possible, grantee will provide grantor with summaries of any required documents
or copies thereof with trade secrets and proprietary matters deleted therefrom.
The burden of proof shall be on grantee to establish the confidential nature of
any information submitted, to the reasonable satisfaction of the grantor.
   (C)   Public Reports: If grantee is publicly held, a copy of each grantee's
annual and other periodic reports and those of its parent, if any, shall be
submitted to grantor within forty five (45) days of its issuance.
   (D)   Complaint Report And Opinion Survey: Upon request of the grantor, but
not more than once annually, the grantee shall conduct a subscriber
satisfaction survey pertaining to quality of service, which may be transmitted
to subscribers in grantee's invoice for cable services. The results of such
survey shall be provided to the grantor on a timely basis. The cost of such
survey shall be borne by the grantee.
   (E)   Privacy Report: Upon grantor's request, but no more than once
annually, grantee shall submit to grantor a report indicating the degree of
compliance with the provisions contained in Section
5-19-5 herein and all steps taken to assure that the privacy rights of
individuals have been protected.
   (F)   Reports; General:
      1.   All reports required under this Chapter or the franchise agreement,
except those required by law to be kept confidential, shall be available for
public inspection in the grantor's offices during normal business hours.
      2.   All reports and records required under this Chapter or the franchise
agreement shall be furnished at the sole expense of grantee, except as
otherwise provided in this Chapter or the franchise agreement.
      3.   The wilful refusal, failure, or neglect of grantee to file any of
the reports required as and when due under this Chapter or the franchise
agreement, may be deemed a material breach of the franchise agreement if such
reports are not provided to grantor within thirty (30) days after written
request therefor, and may subject the grantee to all remedies, legal or
equitable, which are available to grantor under the franchise or otherwise.
      4.   Any materially false or misleading statement or representation made
knowingly and wilfully by the grantee in any report required under this Chapter
or the franchise agreement may be deemed a material breach of the franchise and
may subject grantee to all remedies, legal or equitable, which are available to
grantor under the franchise or otherwise. (Ord. 95-10, 7-25-95)
5-19-8: SYSTEM EVALUATION:
   (A)   Annual Review Of System Performance: Each year throughout the term of
the franchise, if requested by the grantor, grantor and grantee shall meet
publicly to review system performance and quality of service. The various
reports required pursuant to this Chapter, results of technical performance
tests, the record of subscriber complaints and grantee's response to
complaints, and the information acquired in any subscriber surveys, shall be
utilized as the basis for review. In addition, any subscriber may submit
comments or complaints during the review meetings, either orally or in writing,
and these shall be considered. Within thirty (30) days after the conclusion of
a system performance review meeting, grantor may issue findings with respect to
the cable system's franchise compliance and quality of service. If grantor
determines that grantee is not in compliance with the requirements of this
Chapter or the grantee's franchise, grantor may direct grantee to correct the
areas of noncompliance within a reasonable period of time. Failure of grantee,
after due notice, to correct the areas of noncompliance within the period
specified therefor or to commence compliance within such period and diligently
achieve compliance thereafter, shall be considered a material breach of the
franchise, and grantor may exercise any remedy within the scope of this Chapter
and the franchise agreement.
   (B)   Special Review Of System Performance: When there has been a pattern of
complaints made or where there exists other evidence which, in the judgment of
the grantor, casts reasonable doubt on the reliability or quality of cable
service to the effect that the grantee is not in compliance with the
requirements of this Chapter or its franchise, the grantor shall have the right
to compel the grantee to test, analyze and report on the performance of the
system in order to protect the public against substandard cable service.
Grantor may not compel grantee to provide such tests or reports unless and
until grantor has provided grantee with at least thirty (30) days notice of its
intention to exercise its rights under this Section and has provided grantee
with an opportunity to be heard prior to its exercise of such rights. Such test
or tests shall be made and the report shall be delivered to the grantor not
later than thirty (30) days after the grantor notifies the grantee that it is
exercising such right, and shall be made at grantee's sole cost. Such report
shall include the following information: the nature of the complaints which
precipitated the special tests, what system component was tested, the equipment
used and procedures employed in said testing, the results of such tests, and
the method by which such complaints were resolved. Any other information
pertinent to the special test also shall be reported.
   (C)   Special Evaluation Sessions: The grantor may hold special evaluation
sessions at any time during the term of a franchise, provided such sessions are
held no more often than once every three (3) years. The grantee shall be
notified of the place, time and date thereof and the topics to be discussed.
Such sessions may be open to the public and, if so, shall be advertised in a
newspaper of general circulation at least thirty (30) days before each session.
The sessions may include an evaluation of any items considered relevant to the
cable system, the subscribers and the grantor. Either the grantor or the
grantee may propose items for discussion or evaluation. (Ord. 95-10, 7-25-95)
5-19-9: FRANCHISE BREACHES:
   (A)   Remedies For Franchise Violations: If grantee fails to perform in a
timely manner any material obligation required by this Chapter or a franchise
granted hereunder, following notice from the grantor and an opportunity to cure
such nonperformance in accordance with the provisions of subsection (B) below
and the franchise, grantor may at its option and in its sole discretion:
      1.   Cure the violation and recover the actual cost thereof from the
grantee and/or the security fund established herein if such violation is not
cured within thirty (30) days after written notice to the grantee of the
violation;
      2.   Assess against and recover from grantee damages to the extent
allowed by law for any such violation(s) if such violation is not cured, or
(except where the violation is failure to pay any sum due) if grantee has not
commenced a cure, on a schedule acceptable to grantor, within thirty (30) days
after written notice to the grantee of the violation. Such assessment may be
withdrawn from any security fund, but such withdrawal shall not constitute a
waiver by grantor of any right or remedy it may have under the franchise or
applicable law, including without limitation, its right to recover from grantee
such additional damages, losses, costs and expenses, including actual
attorney's fees, as may have been suffered or incurred by grantor by reason of
or arising out of such breach of the franchise.
   (B)   Procedure For Remedying Franchise Violations: Prior to imposing any
remedy or other sanction against grantee specified in this Chapter or the
franchise agreement, grantor shall give grantee notice and opportunity to be
heard on the matter, in accordance with the following procedures:
      1.   Grantor shall first notify grantee of the violation in writing by
personal delivery or registered or certified mail, and demand correction within
a reasonable time, which shall not be less than five (5) days in the case of
the failure of the grantee to pay any sum or other amount due the grantor under
this Chapter or the grantee's franchise and thirty (30) days in all other
cases. If grantee fails to correct the violation within the time prescribed or
(except where the violation is failure to pay any sum or other amount) if
grantee fails to commence correction of the violation within the time
prescribed and diligently remedy such violation thereafter, the grantor shall
then give written notice of not less than twenty (20) days of a public hearing
to be held before the Council. Said notice shall specify the violations alleged
to have occurred.
      2.   At the public hearing, the Council shall hear and consider all
relevant evidence, and thereafter render findings and its decision.
      3.   In the event the Council finds that the grantee has corrected the
violation or has diligently commenced correction of such violation after notice
thereof from grantor and is diligently proceeding to fully remedy such
violation, or that no material violation has occurred, the proceedings shall
terminate and no penalty or other sanction shall be imposed.
      4.   In the event the Council finds that a material violation exists and
that grantee has not corrected the same in a satisfactory manner or has not
diligently commenced correction of such violation after notice thereof from
grantor and is not diligently proceeding to fully remedy such violation, the
Council may impose one or more of the remedies provided in this Chapter or the
franchise agreement as it, in its discretion, deems appropriate under the
circumstances.
   (C)   Grantor's Power To Revoke: Grantor reserves the right to revoke any
franchise granted pursuant to this Chapter and revoke all rights and privileges
associated with it in the following circumstances, each of which shall
represent a default by grantee and a material violation under the franchise:
      1.   If grantee shall default in the performance of its obligations under
this Chapter or the franchise agreement and (except where the default is
failure to pay any sum or other amount) shall continue such default after
receipt of due notice and reasonable opportunity to cure the default;
      2.   If grantee shall fail to provide or maintain in full force and
effect any insurance coverage or security fund as required in this Chapter or
franchise agreement;
      3.   If grantee shall violate any order or ruling of any regulatory body
having jurisdiction over the grantee relative to the grantee's franchise,
unless such order or ruling is being contested by grantee by appropriate
proceedings conducted in good faith;
      4.   If grantee practices any fraud or deceit upon grantor.
As provided for in subsection
5-19-10(E) the termination and forfeiture of the grantee's franchise shall in
no way affect any right of grantor to pursue any remedy under the franchise or
any provision of law, including this Chapter.
   (D)   Force Majeure; Grantee's Inability To Perform: In the event grantee's
performance of any of the terms, conditions or obligations required by this
Chapter or its franchise granted hereunder is prevented by a cause or event not
within grantee's control, such inability to perform shall be deemed excused and
no penalties or sanctions shall be imposed as a result thereof; provided,
however, that such inability to perform shall not relieve a grantee from the
obligations imposed by this Chapter pertaining to refunds and credits for
interruptions in service. For the purpose of this Section, causes or events not
within the control of grantee shall include acts of God, strikes, sabotage,
riots or civil disturbances, restraints imposed by order of a governmental
agency (other than the grantor acting pursuant to this Chapter or the franchise
agreement) or court, explosions, acts of public enemies, natural disasters such
as floods, earthquakes, landslides, and fires, and similar causes, but shall
not include financial inability of the grantee to perform or failure of the
grantee to obtain any necessary permits or licenses from other governmental
agencies or the right to use the facilities of any public utility where such
failure is due solely to the acts or omissions of grantee, or the failure of
the grantee to secure supplies, services, or equipment necessary for the
installation, operation, maintenance or repair of the cable communications
system where the grantee has failed to exercise reasonable diligence to secure
such supplies, services or equipment. (Ord. 95-10, 7-25-95)
5-19-10: MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS:
   (A)   Abandonment Or Removal Of Franchise Property:
      1.   In the event that the use of any franchise property of grantee
within the public rights of way is discontinued for a continuous period of
twelve (12) months, grantee shall be deemed to have abandoned that franchise
property. Any part of the cable system that is parallel or redundant to other
parts of the system and is intended for use only when needed as a backup for
the system or a part thereof, shall not be deemed to have been abandoned
because of its lack of use.
      2.   Grantor, upon such terms as grantor may impose, may give grantee
permission to abandon, without removing, any system facility or equipment laid,
directly constructed, operated or maintained under the franchise.
      3.   Unless such permission is granted or unless otherwise provided in
this Chapter, the grantee shall remove all abandoned aboveground facilities and
equipment upon receipt of written notice from grantor and shall restore any
affected street or other public ways or public places to its former state at
the time such facilities and equipment were removed, so as not to impair its
usefulness. In removing its plant, structures and equipment, grantee shall
refill, at its own expense, any excavation that shall be made by it and shall
leave all streets, public ways and places in as good condition as that
prevailing prior to such removal without materially interfering with any
electrical or telephone cable or other utility wires, poles, or attachments.
Grantor shall have the right to inspect and approve the condition of the
streets, public ways, public places, cables, wires, attachments and poles prior
to and after removal. The liability, indemnity and insurance provisions of this
Chapter and the franchise agreement and the security fund as provided herein
shall continue in full force and effect during the period of removal and until
full compliance by grantee with the terms and conditions of this Section.
      4.   Upon abandonment of any franchise property in place, the grantee, if
required by the grantor, shall submit to the grantor an instrument,
satisfactory in form to the grantor, transferring to the grantor the ownership
of the franchise property abandoned.
      5.   At the expiration of the term for which the franchise is granted, or
upon its revocation or earlier expiration, as provided herein, in any such case
without renewal, extension or transfer, the grantor shall have the right to
require grantee to remove, at its own expense, all aboveground portions of the
cable television system from all streets, public ways and public places within
the City within a reasonable period of time, which shall not be less than one
hundred eighty (180) days or more than three hundred sixty five (365) days.
      6.   Notwithstanding anything to the contrary set forth in this Chapter,
the grantee may abandon any underground franchise property in place so long as
it does not materially interfere with the use of the street or public rights of
way or place in which such property is located or with the use thereof by any
public utility or other grantee.
   (B)   Restoration By Grantor; Reimbursement Of Costs: In the event of a
failure by grantee to complete any work required herein or by any other law or
ordinance, and if such work is not completed within thirty (30) days after
receipt of written notice thereof from grantor or (except in cases of emergency
constituting a threat to public health, safety or welfare), if more than thirty
(30) days are reasonably required therefor, if grantee does not commence such
work within such thirty (30) days period and diligently complete the work
thereafter, grantor may cause such work to be done and grantee shall reimburse
grantor the costs thereof within thirty (30) days after receipt of an itemized
list of such costs. Without relieving grantee of such obligation, grantor may
recover all or a portion of such costs through the security fund provided by
grantee.
   (C)   Extended Operation And Continuity Of Services: Upon expiration or
revocation of the franchise, the grantor shall have the discretion to grant a
short-term license in lieu of a franchise to permit grantee to continue to
operate the cable television system for a specific period of time, not to
exceed twelve (12) months. Grantee shall continue to operate the system under
the terms and conditions of this Chapter and the license and to provide the
regular subscriber service and any and all of the services that may be provided
at that time. It shall be the right of all subscribers to continue to receive
all available services, provided that financial and other obligations to
grantee are honored. The grantee shall use reasonable efforts to provide
continuous, uninterrupted service to its subscribers, including operation of
the system during transition periods following franchise expiration or
termination.
   (D)   Receivership And Foreclosure:
      1.   A franchise shall, at the option of grantor, cease and terminate one
hundred twenty (120) days after appointment of a receiver or receivers, or
trustee or trustees, to take over and conduct the business of grantee, whether
in a receivership, reorganization, bankruptcy or other action or proceeding,
unless such receivership or trusteeship shall have been vacated prior to the
expiration of said one hundred twenty (120) days, or unless: a) such receivers
or trustees shall have, within one hundred twenty (120) days after their
election or appointment, fully complied with all the terms and provisions of
this Chapter and the franchise, and the receivership or trustees within said
one hundred twenty (120) days shall have remedied all the defaults under the
franchise or provided a plan, satisfactory to grantor, for the remedy of such
defaults which is satisfactory to the grantor; and b) such receivers or
trustees shall, within said one hundred twenty (120) days, execute an agreement
duly approved by the court having jurisdiction whereby such receivers or
trustees assume and agree to be bound by each and every term, provision and
limitation of the franchise granted.
      2.   In the case of a foreclosure or other judicial sale of the franchise
property, or any material part thereof, grantor may serve notice of termination
upon grantee and the successful bidder at such sale, in which event the
franchise and all rights and privileges of the grantee hereunder shall cease
and terminate thirty (30) days after service of such notice, unless: a) grantor
shall have approved the transfer of the franchise, as and in the manner that
this Chapter provides; and b) such successful bidder shall have covenanted and
agreed with grantor to assume and be bound by all terms and conditions of the
franchise.
   (E)   Rights Reserved To Grantor:
      1.   In addition to any rights specifically reserved to the grantor by
this Chapter, the grantor reserves to itself every right and power which is
required to be reserved by a provision of any ordinance or under the franchise.
      2.   The grantor may waive any provision of the franchise, except those
required by Federal or State regulation, if the grantor determines: a) that it
is in the public interest to do so, and b) that the enforcement of such
provision will impose an undue hardship on the grantee or the subscribers. To
be effective, such waiver shall be evidenced by a statement in writing signed
by a duly authorized representative of the grantor. Waiver of any provision in
one instance shall not be deemed a waiver of such provision subsequent to such
instance nor be deemed a waiver of any other provision of the franchise unless
the statement so recites.
   (F)   Rights Of Individuals:
      1.   Grantee shall not deny service, deny access, or otherwise
discriminate against subscribers, channel users, or general citizens on the
basis of race, color, religion, national origin, age, sex or sexual
orientation. Grantee shall comply at all times with all other applicable
Federal, State and local laws and regulations relating to nondiscrimination.
      2.   Grantee shall adhere to the applicable equal employment opportunity
requirements of Federal, State and local regulations, as now written or as
amended from time to time.
      3.   Neither grantee, nor any person, agency, or entity shall, without
the subscriber's consent, tap, or arrange for the tapping, of any cable, line,
signal input device, or subscriber outlet or receiver for any purpose except
routine maintenance of the system, detection or investigation of unauthorized
service, polling with audience participation, or audience viewing surveys to
support advertising research regarding viewers where individual viewing
behavior cannot be identified.
      4.   In the conduct of providing its services or in pursuit of any
collateral commercial enterprise resulting therefrom, grantee shall take
reasonable steps to prevent the invasion of a subscriber's or general citizen's
right of privacy or other personal rights through the use of the system as such
rights are delineated or defined by applicable law. Grantee shall not without
lawful court order or other applicable valid legal authority utilize the
system's interactive two (2) way equipment or capability for unauthorized
personal surveillance of any subscriber or general citizen.
      5.   No cable line, wire amplifier, converter, or other piece of
equipment owned by grantee shall be installed by grantee in the subscriber's
premises, other than in appropriate easements, without first securing any
required consent. If a subscriber requests service, permission to install upon
subscriber's property shall be presumed.
      6.   The grantee and its agents and employees shall not sell or otherwise
make available to any party without consent of the subscriber pursuant to State
and Federal privacy laws:
         (a)   Any list containing the names and addresses of subscribers who
request in writing to be removed from such list; and
         (b)   Any list which identifies the viewing habits of individual
subscribers, without the prior written consent of such subscribers. This does
not prohibit the grantee from providing composite ratings of subscriber viewing
to any party.
   (G)   Separability: If any provision of this Chapter is held by any court or
by any Federal or State agency of competent jurisdiction to be invalid as
conflicting with any Federal or State law, rule or regulation now or hereafter
in effect or for any other reason, or is held by such court or agency to be
modified in any way in order to conform to the requirements of any such law,
rule or regulation, such provision shall be considered a separate, distinct,
and independent part of this Chapter, and such holding shall not affect the
validity and enforceability of all other provisions hereof. In the event that
such law, rule or regulation is subsequently repealed, rescinded, amended or
otherwise changed, so that the provision thereof which had been held invalid or
modified is no longer in conflict with such law, rule or regulation or
otherwise invalid, said provision shall thereupon return to full force and
effect and shall thereafter be binding on grantor and grantee, provided that
grantor shall give grantee thirty (30) days written notice of such change
before requiring compliance with said provision of such longer period of time
as may be reasonably required for grantee to comply with such provision.
   (H)   Notices: Grantee shall maintain throughout the term of the franchise,
a local address for service of notices by mail.
   (I)   Captions: The captions to sections throughout this Chapter are
intended solely to facilitate reading and reference. Such captions shall not
affect the meaning or interpretation of this Chapter.
   (J)   No Recourse Against The Grantor: The grantee shall have no recourse
whatsoever against the grantor or its Council, officials, boards, commissions,
agents, or employees for any loss, costs, expenses, or damage arising out of
any provision of the franchise or because of the enforcement of the franchise.
   (K)   Nonenforcement By The Grantor: The grantee shall not be relieved of
its obligation to comply with any of the provisions of this Chapter by reason
of any failure of the grantor to enforce prompt compliance. (Ord. 95-10, 7-25-
95)
CHAPTER 20
FORTUNE TELLING
SECTION:
5-20-1: Purpose And Definition
5-20-2: License Required
5-20-3: Application For License
5-20-4: Application Fee
5-20-5: Investigation, Right To Refuse, And Appeal
5-20-6: Land Use Permit Required
5-20-7: Issue Of License
5-20-8: License Nontransferable
5-20-9: Expiration And Renewal Of License
5-20-10: Revocation Or Suspension
5-20-11: Taxes And Records
5-20-12: Penalty
5-20-13: Protected Speech
5-20-1: PURPOSE AND DEFINITION:
   (A)   Purpose: The purpose of this chapter is to regulate the business of
fortune telling to protect users of such services from, among other things,
fraud.
   (B)   Definition: As used in this chapter, the term "fortune telling" shall
mean and include the practice of astrology for compensation, palmistry,
phrenology, life reading, fortune telling, cartomancy, clairvoyance,
clairaudience, crystal gazing, medium shift, prophecy, augury, divination,
necromancy, and graphology. (Ord. 2012-2, 5-7-2012)
5-20-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
No person may engage in fortune telling for compensation in the city of Selma
without a license issued by the city pursuant to this chapter. (Ord. 2012-2, 5-
7-2012)
5-20-3: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
Any person who desires a license for fortune telling shall file an application
with the city manager on a form furnished by the city. The form shall require
the applicant to furnish, at a minimum, the following:
   (A)   Name of the applicant;
   (B)   Permanent home address of applicant;
   (C)   Present or proposed address where applicant will engage in fortune
telling business;
   (D)   A brief description of the proposed business;
   (E)   A statement, under penalty of perjury, as to whether the applicant has
ever been convicted of violating section 332 of the California Penal Code or a
crime involving moral turpitude, the nature of the offense and the penalty
imposed. (Ord. 2012-2, 5-7-2012)
5-20-4: APPLICATION FEE:
When an application is filed, the applicant shall pay a fee as fixed and
amended, from time to time, by resolution of the city council for the cost of
processing the application. The application fee is nonrefundable and is in
addition to any/all other fees prescribed by this chapter or any other fee
required by this code or any other statute or regulation. (Ord. 2012-2, 5-7-
2012)
5-20-5: INVESTIGATION, RIGHT TO REFUSE, AND APPEAL:
   (A)   Investigation: Upon receipt of an application, the city manager shall
have an investigation made of the applicant's criminal and/or business record,
which may include any civil judgments against the applicant. The city manager
may refer the applicant to the chief of police for a report and recommendation.
   (B)   Right To Refuse: If the city manager finds and determines that the
applicant has been convicted of a crime involving moral turpitude and/or Penal
Code section 332, or is subject to a civil judgment for fraud or similar acts
of deception the city manager shall refuse to issue a license. Upon determining
to refuse to issue a license, the city manager shall notify the applicant of
his or her decision in writing, mailed to the applicant at the address provided
by the applicant via first class mail, postage prepaid within forty five (45)
days after the filing of the application. The decision of the city manager
shall be final fifteen (15) days from the date the notice of denial is mailed
unless the applicant files an appeal as described in subsection (C) of this
section.
   (C)   Appeal From Denial Of Permit To The City Council: The applicant may
appeal the decision of the city manager to deny a fortune telling license by
filing with the city clerk a written request for an appeal to be heard by the
city council. The applicant shall file the request and pay a fee as fixed and
amended from time to time by resolution of the city council within fifteen (15)
days from the date of the mailing of the notice of the city manager denying the
application. Upon receipt of the request for appeal, the city manager shall fix
a time and place for a hearing by the city council of the appeal within forty
five (45) days but not less than fifteen (15) days after receipt of the request
for appeal and shall give written notice of the hearing to the applicant by
first class mail, postage prepaid, to the address provided by the applicant.
The city council shall hear the appeal and make a decision within thirty (30)
days after close of hearing. The decision of the city council shall be final.
The city council shall notify the applicant of its decision in writing.
   (D)   Conditional Approval: If the city manager finds that the applicant has
not been convicted of a crime involving moral turpitude and the applicant's
business record is satisfactory, the city manager shall notify the applicant of
the city's intent to issue a license conditioned upon the applicant obtaining a
land use permit pursuant to section
5-20-6 of this chapter within one hundred twenty (120) days after the date of
conditional approval.
   (E)   Failure To Give Notice: If the city manager fails to give notice to
the applicant of denial or conditional approval of a fortune telling license
within forty five (45) days after the filing of the application the application
will be deemed denied and may be appealed to the city council pursuant to
subsection (C) of this section. (Ord. 2012-2, 5-7-2012)
5-20-6: LAND USE PERMIT REQUIRED:
   (A)   Application: If the city manager, pursuant to section
5-20-5 of this chapter, decides that a license may be issued to the applicant,
the applicant shall file with the planning commission an application for a land
use permit for a particular location. The applicant shall pay a fee for the
application for a land use permit that is equal to the fee charged for a site
plan review as set by resolution of the city council.
   (B)   Consideration And Conditions Of Approval: In addition to any other
provision of this code, the planning commission in considering an application
for a land use permit for fortune telling shall have the discretion to:
      1.   Consider and fix and/or prescribe advertising and signs;
      2.   Consider and approve exterior appearance and elevations of the
premises;
      3.   Limit the number of employees in fortune telling and/or prohibit
persons convicted of a crime involving moral turpitude from engaging in fortune
telling on the premises;
      4.   Limit the hours of operation, and other business conducted on the
premises.
   (C)   Permanent Premises Required: The planning commission shall not issue a
conditional use permit for the operation of a fortune telling business from a
trailer, vehicle or temporary structure.
   (D)   Zoning Requirements: The planning commission shall not consider or
approve any application for a land use permit for the conduct of the business
of fortune telling in any land use or zoning district other than the commercial
districts.
   (E)   Appeal: Any party aggrieved by the decision of the planning commission
whether or not to issue a land use permit may appeal said decision to the city
council pursuant to the procedure prescribed by section
11-16-5 of this code relating to conditional use permits. (Ord. 2012-2, 5-7-
2012)
5-20-7: ISSUE OF LICENSE:
If the city manager notifies the applicant of his or her intent to issue a
license pursuant to section
5-20-5 of this chapter and the planning commission approves a land use permit
pursuant to section
5-20-6 of this chapter, then the city manager shall issue a license for fortune
telling to the applicant subject to the terms and conditions of the land use
permit and any other terms and conditions the city manager may impose if the
city manager finds that it is necessary to do so in order to protect the
general public from the threat of fraud or misrepresentation or public
nuisance. (Ord. 2012-2, 5-7-2012)
5-20-8: LICENSE NONTRANSFERABLE:
A license for fortune telling in the city of Selma may not be assigned or
transferred. (Ord. 2012-2, 5-7-2012)
5-20-9: EXPIRATION AND RENEWAL OF LICENSE:
   (A)   Expiration: A license for a fortune telling business shall expire one
year from the date of issuance.
   (B)   Renewal: The holder of a fortune telling license may file an
application for renewal with the city manager on a form provided by the city
and paying the license renewal fee which shall be set by resolution of the city
council in an amount necessary to cover the costs to the city of processing the
license renewal. In determining whether or not the holder of a license shall
have the license renewed, the city manager may deny renewal of the license if
the city manager, in his or her discretion, finds that any of the conditions
for revocation or suspension as described in section
5-20-10 of this chapter exist.
   (C)   Appeal: The holder of the license may appeal the decision of the city
manager to deny renewal of the license in the same manner described in
subsection
5-20-5(C) of this chapter. (Ord. 2012-2, 5-7-2012)
5-20-10: REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION:
   (A)   Grounds For Suspension Or Revocation: The city manager may suspend or
revoke the fortune telling license for one or more of the following grounds:
      1.   Fraud, misrepresentation or false statement contained in the
application;
      2.   Violation of an ordinance or regulation of the city, or the
conditions of the conditional use permit;
      3.   Conviction of a crime involving moral turpitude;
      4.   Fraud, misrepresentation or false statement made in the course of
engaging in the fortune telling business;
      5.   Conducting the fortune telling business in violation of a term or
condition of the license, or in a manner that is in breach of the peace or a
nuisance or endangers the health, safety, or general welfare of the public.
   (B)   Duration Of Suspension: The city manager shall have the authority to
determine the duration of any suspension he or she deems necessary and to
impose new or additional terms and conditions upon the license when the
suspension is terminated. The suspension or revocation will be effective
immediately upon personal service of the notice of suspension or revocation or
three (3) days after mailing a notice of suspension or revocation to the
licensee.
   (C)   Appeal: The licensee may appeal a decision by the city manager to
suspend or revoke the license to the city council in the manner described in
subsection 5-20-5(C) of this chapter. (Ord. 2012-2, 5-7-2012)
5-20-11: TAXES AND RECORDS:
The licensee shall keep and maintain records and pay or have levied taxes in
accordance with this title. (Ord. 2012-2, 5-7-2012)
5-20-12: PENALTY:
A person who violates this chapter shall be subject to the penalties prescribed
in title I, chapter 4 of this code. (Ord. 2012-2, 5-7-2012)
5-20-13: PROTECTED SPEECH:
Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to prohibit or interfere with any
person's exercise of free and open speech or religion. (Ord. 2012-2, 5-7-2012)
CHAPTER 21
PSEUDOEPHEDRINE PRODUCTS
SECTION:
5-21-1: Display Of Pseudoephedrine Products
5-21-1: DISPLAY OF PSEUDOEPHEDRINE PRODUCTS:
It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation doing business within
the incorporated city limits of the city of Selma to store, stock, keep or
display for sale or transfer any product containing pseudoephedrine in an area
other than a place that is locked and secure or is otherwise made unavailable
to the public and which is accessible only to employees of such businesses.
(Ord. 2005-11, 12-5-2005)
CHAPTER 22
STREET VENDORS OF FOOD PRODUCTS
SECTION:
5-22-1: Definitions
5-22-2: Street Vending Of Food Products; Permit Required
5-22-3: Issuance Of Permits, Limits And Conditions; Fees
5-22-4: Term Of Permit; Renewal
5-22-5: Permit Retention; Display
5-22-6: Penalties
5-22-1: DEFINITIONS:
Unless the context otherwise requires, the definitions in this section shall
govern the construction of this chapter:
   CITY MANAGER: The city manager of the city of Selma or his or her designee.
   CLERK: The city clerk of the city of Selma or the city clerk's authorized
designee.
   FOOD PRODUCTS: Food and any substance intended for human consumption.
   PERSON: Shall mean and include the singular and plural and shall also mean
and include any individual, firm, corporation, association, club,
copartnership, joint venture or any other organization.
   STREET VENDOR: Any person selling or offering to sell or causing the sale of
or offering for sale of any food products from any vehicle parked, stopped,
standing upon, within or adjacent to any curb along any public street within
any residential zone of the city of Selma. (Ord. 2012-1, 5-7-2012)
5-22-2: STREET VENDING OF FOOD PRODUCTS; PERMIT REQUIRED:
No person shall sell or offer for sale, from any vehicle parked, stopped,
standing upon or within any public street or adjacent to any curb thereof food
products within any residential zone of the city of Selma without first
obtaining a permit as required in this chapter. The total number of permits
that may be issued in any year shall not exceed two (2) except that if, on
April 1, 2012, there were more than two (2) valid permits issued by the city,
those persons holding said permits, and only those persons, may, if they meet
all other requirements, be issued a permit even if the issuance thereof causes
the total number of permits issued in that year to exceed two (2). If a person
holding a valid permit on April 1, 2012, as described herein, fails to apply
for a permit as required in any given year, then that person shall not
thereafter be entitled to a permit if the issuance thereof would cause the
total number of permits to exceed two (2). (Ord. 2012-1, 5-7-2012)
5-22-3: ISSUANCE OF PERMITS, LIMITS AND CONDITIONS; FEES:
   (A)   The issuance of a permit for a street vendor of food products within
any residential zone of the city shall be subject to those conditions
prescribed by section
5-7-5 of this title. In addition, the number of permits issued in any given
calendar year shall be determined by the city manager pursuant to section
5-22-2 of this chapter. The city manager is hereby authorized to adopt any and
all policies and procedures necessary to implement the permitting process
including, but not limited to, the designation of an application period, an
annual date for the issuance and expiration of permits, and a procedure for
selecting the persons to be issued permits. Such selection procedure may be
random or based upon an applicant's history of engaging in street vending of
food products from a vehicle in the city's residential zones and may give
preference for issuance of any permit according to the length and quality of
such street vending services provided within the city of Selma.
   (B)   The city council may, by resolution, establish and amend, from time to
time, any fee or fees to be charged in connection with this chapter including,
but not limited to, a permit application fee, permit fee, or fee for the
issuance of a permit placard or decal. (Ord. 2012-1, 5-7-2012)
5-22-4: TERM OF PERMIT; RENEWAL:
No permit issued shall be valid for a period of more than one year. The term
and expiration date of all permits shall be determined by the city manager or
his or her designee as set forth in section
5-22-3 of this chapter. The city manager or his designee shall allow a five (5)
business day grace period following the expiration date for any permit to
timely submit an application for renewal of the permit. (Ord. 2012-1, 5-7-2012)
5-22-5: PERMIT RETENTION; DISPLAY:
   (A)   Each permit holder shall retain in his or her possession the permit
issued by the clerk at all times while engaged in the street vending of any
food product within any residential zone of the city and must produce and show
the same on demand of any prospective customer or any police officer or
official of the city.
   (B)   Each permit holder shall display the permit or placard or decal issued
by the clerk on the vehicle used by the street vendor at all times while
engaged in the street vending of any food product within any residential zone
of the city in a manner to be determined by the city manager or his or her
designee. (Ord. 2012-1, 5-7-2012)
5-22-6: PENALTIES:
   (A)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter or
knowingly or intentionally misrepresenting to any officer or employee of the
city of Selma any material fact in procuring the permit herein provided for
shall be deemed to be guilty of a misdemeanor or, at the discretion of the city
attorney, an infraction. A person shall be deemed guilty of a separate offense
for each day during any portion of which a violation of this chapter is
committed, continued or permitted by the person.
   (B)   Penalties for infractions shall be set by resolution of the city
council. The city council shall periodically review the penalties for
infractions and set new penalties by resolution as required to maintain the
effectiveness of this code.
   (C)   All remedies provided for herein shall be cumulative and nonexclusive.
(Ord. 2012-1, 5-7-2012)
CHAPTER 23
ELECTRONIC SMOKING DEVICES
SECTION:
5-23-1: Definitions
5-23-2: Prohibition Of Electronic Smoking Device Use In Smoke Free Places
5-23-3: Retailing Requirements And Prohibitions
5-23-4: Nonretaliation
5-23-5: Penalties And Enforcement
5-23-6: Preexisting Nonconforming Use
5-23-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following words and phrases, whenever used in this chapter shall have the
meanings defined in this section unless the context clearly requires otherwise:
   BUSINESS: Any sole proprietorship, partnership, joint venture, corporation,
association, or other entity formed for profitmaking purposes.
   ELECTRONIC SMOKING DEVICE: An electronic device that can be used to deliver
an inhaled dose of nicotine, or other substances, including any component,
part, or accessory of such a device, whether or not sold separately.
"Electronic smoking device" includes any such device, whether manufactured,
distributed, marketed, or sold as an electronic cigarette, an electronic cigar,
an electronic cigarillo, an electronic pipe, an electronic hookah, or any other
product name or description.
   ELECTRONIC SMOKING DEVICE PARAPHERNALIA: Cartridges, cartomizers, e-liquid,
smoke juice, tips, atomizers, electronic smoking device batteries, electronic
smoking device chargers, and any other item specifically designed for the
preparation, charging, or use of electronic smoking devices.
   EMPLOYEE: Any person who is employed or retained as an independent
contractor by any employer in consideration for direct or indirect monetary
wages or profit, or any person who volunteers his or her services for an
employer.
   EMPLOYER: Any business or nonprofit entity that retains the service of one
or more employees.
   NOMINAL COST: The cost of any item imposed for the transfer from one person
to another for less than the total of: a) twenty five percent (25%) of the fair
market value of the item exclusive of taxes and government fees; plus b) all
taxes and government fees previously paid and all taxes and government fees
still due on the item at the time of transfer.
   NONPROFIT ENTITY: Any entity that meets the requirements of California
Corporations Code section 5003 as well as any corporation, unincorporated
association or other entity created for charitable, religious, philanthropic,
educational, political, social or similar purposes, the net proceeds of which
are committed to the promotion of the objectives or purposes of the entity and
not to private gain. A government agency is not a nonprofit entity within the
meaning of this chapter.
   NONSALE DISTRIBUTION: To give, furnish, or cause or allow to be given or
furnished within the jurisdictional limits of the city, an electronic smoking
device or electronic smoking device paraphernalia at no cost or at nominal cost
to a person who is not a retailer.
   PERSON: Any natural person, cooperative association, employer, personal
representative, receiver, trustee, assignee, or any other legal entity
including a government agency.
   PUBLIC PLACE: Any place within the city or county, public or private, that
is open to the general public regardless of any fee or age requirement,
including, for example, bars, restaurants, clubs, stores, stadiums, parks,
playgrounds, taxis, and buses and means any place used by a membership
association or club at which nonmember guests are present or permitted,
including, for example and without limitation, fraternity and sorority houses.
   RETAILER: Any person who sells, offers for sale, or does or offers to
exchange for any form of consideration, electronic smoking devices or
electronic smoking device paraphernalia. "Retailing" means the doing of any of
these things. This definition is without regard to the quantity of the
electronic smoking devices or electronic smoking device paraphernalia sold,
offered for sale, exchanged, or offered for exchange.
   SELF-SERVICE DISPLAY: The open display or storage of electronic smoking
devices or electronic smoking device paraphernalia in a manner that is
physically accessible in any way to the general public without the assistance
of a retailer or employee of a retailer and a direct person to person transfer
between a retailer or employee of a retailer and any other person. A vending
machine is a form of self-service display.
   SMOKING: Inhaling, exhaling, burning, or carrying any lighted, heated, or
ignited cigar, cigarette, cigarillo, pipe, hookah, electronic smoking device,
or any plant product intended for human inhalation. (Ord. 2016-1, 3-7-2016)
5-23-2: PROHIBITION OF ELECTRONIC SMOKING DEVICE USE IN SMOKE FREE PLACES:
   (A)   It shall be a violation of this chapter to use an electronic smoking
device in any place within the city where smoking of tobacco products is
prohibited by law.
   (B)   No person, employer, or nonprofit entity shall knowingly permit the
use of electronic smoking devices in an area under the legal or de facto
control of that person, employer or nonprofit entity and in which smoking of
tobacco products is prohibited by law. (Ord. 2016-1, 3-7-2016)
5-23-3: RETAILING REQUIREMENTS AND PROHIBITIONS:
   (A)   Sale To Minors Prohibited: It shall be a violation of this chapter to
sell, give or furnish, or cause to be sold, given or furnished, an electronic
smoking device or electronic smoking device paraphernalia to a natural person
under eighteen (18) years of age in any place within the city.
   (B)   Positive Identification Required: No retailer shall sell, give or
furnish an electronic smoking device or electronic smoking device paraphernalia
to a natural person who appears to be under the age of thirty (30) years
without first examining identification to confirm that the recipient is at
least eighteen (18) years of age.
   (C)   Self-Service Displays: Self-service displays of electronic smoking
devices or electronic smoking device paraphernalia are prohibited.
   (D)   Nonsale Distribution Prohibited: No person, motivated by an economic
or a business purpose, shall engage in the nonsale distribution of any
electronic smoking device or electronic smoking device paraphernalia in any
public place.
   (E)   Exception: No provision in this chapter shall apply to any product
specifically approved by the United States food and drug administration for use
in the mitigation, treatment, or prevention of disease. (Ord. 2016-1, 3-7-2016)
5-23-4: NONRETALIATION:
No person, employer, or nonprofit entity shall intimidate, threaten any
reprisal, or effect any reprisal, for the purpose of retaliating against
another person who or which seeks to attain compliance with this chapter. (Ord.
2016-1, 3-7-2016)
5-23-5: PENALTIES AND ENFORCEMENT:
   (A)   The remedies provided by this chapter are cumulative and in addition
to any other remedies available at law or in equity.
   (B)   Violations of this chapter are hereby declared to be a public
nuisance.
   (C)   Violations of any provision of this chapter are subject to
administrative, criminal, civil or other penalties and enforcement pursuant to
title I, chapter 4 of this code. (Ord. 2016-1, 3-7-2016)
5-23-6: PREEXISTING NONCONFORMING USE:
Notwithstanding anything in this chapter to the contrary, all other provisions
of this code, including, but not limited to, title XI, chapter 28 of this code
relating to signs, are applicable to persons subject to the provisions of this
chapter. (Ord. 2016-1, 3-7-2016)
CHAPTER 24
SMOKE SHOPS AND SMOKING LOUNGES
SECTION:
5-24-1: Definitions
5-24-2: Conditional Use Permit Required
5-24-3: Drug Paraphernalia Prohibited
5-24-4: Preexisting Nonconforming Uses
5-24-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following words and phrases, wherever used in this chapter shall have the
meanings defined in this section unless the context clearly requires otherwise:
   ELECTRONIC SMOKING DEVICE: An electronic device that can be used to deliver
an inhaled dose of nicotine, or other substances, including any component,
part, or accessory of such a device, whether or not sold separately.
"Electronic smoking device" includes any such device, whether manufactured,
distributed, marketed, or sold as an electronic cigarette, an electronic cigar,
an electronic cigarillo, an electronic pipe, an electronic hookah, or any other
product name or descriptor.
   ELECTRONIC SMOKING DEVICE PARAPHERNALIA: Cartridges, cartomizers, e-liquid,
smoke juice, tips, atomizers, electronic smoking device batteries, electronic
smoking device chargers, and any other item specifically designed for the
preparation, charging, or use of electronic smoking devices.
   HOOKAH: Glass or metal water pipe usually decorated and shaped somehow like
a bottle or small tank with a long flexible core pipe also known as a shisha,
nargile, hubble bubble, nag, or Turkish water pipe.
   HOOKAH LOUNGE: An area of a commercial establishment, whether enclosed,
indoor or outdoor, designated specifically for the use of hookahs, but does not
include private use of hookahs in personal residences, if otherwise in
compliance with applicable law.
   SMOKE SHOP: A retail or wholesale business or any person that sells, offers
for sale or offers to exchange for any form of consideration, tobacco, tobacco
products, electronic smoking devices or electronic smoking device paraphernalia
or tobacco paraphernalia and has ten percent (10%) or more of its square feet
in the establishment used for the sale or display of tobacco, tobacco products
or tobacco paraphernalia, electronic smoking devices or electronic smoking
paraphernalia or advertising.
   SMOKING LOUNGE: A commercial establishment or portion thereof where
electronic smoking devices, tobacco products, tobacco paraphernalia, hookah
pipes or any of these are used by persons on the premises, but does not include
any private residence.
   TOBACCO PARAPHERNALIA: Any item designed or marketed for the consumption,
use, or preparation of Tobacco Products.
   TOBACCO PRODUCT:
   (A)   Any product containing, made, or derived from tobacco or nicotine that
is intended for human consumption, whether smoked, heated, chewed, absorbed,
dissolved, inhaled, snorted, sniffed, or ingested by any other means,
including, but not limited to cigarettes, cigars, little cigars, chewing
tobacco, pipe tobacco, snuff; or
   (B)   Qny electronic device that delivers nicotine or other substances to
the person inhaling from the device, including, but not limited to an
electronic cigarette, electronic cigar, electronic pipe, or electronic hookah.
   (C)   Notwithstanding any provision of subsections (A) and (B) to the
contrary, "Tobacco Product" includes any component, part, or accessory intended
or reasonably expected to be used with a Tobacco Product, whether or not sold
separately.
"Tobacco Product" does not include any product that has been approved by the
United States Food and Drug Administration for sale as a tobacco cessation
product or for other therapeutic purposes where such product is marketed and
sold solely for such an approved purpose. (Ord. 2016-02, 3-7-2016; amd. Ord.
2022-1, 3-21-2022)
5-24-2: CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT REQUIRED:
   (A)   Conditional Use Permit: Smoke shops and smoking lounges shall only be
permitted in the C-3, M-1 or M-2 zones of the city and shall be subject to the
issuance, existence and validity of a conditional use permit as provided for in
title XI, chapter 16 of this code (commencing with section
11-16-1 of this code) and full compliance with each and every condition
thereof. Such conditional use permit shall be issued only if the applicant has
submitted a site plan showing the location of the use and the following
findings have been made:
      1.   That the proposed use is either a "smoke shop" or "smoking lounge"
as defined in section
 5-24-1 of this chapter;
      2.   That the establishment of the proposed use is compatible with
surrounding uses;
      3.   That the proposed use does not have a detrimental effect on the
public health, safety or general welfare.
   (B)   Locational And Operational Requirements: Smoke shops and smoking
lounges shall comply with the following requirements:
      1.   The use is being established outside of six hundred feet (600') of a
residential zone of the city, or any public or private daycare, kindergarten,
elementary school, middle school, high school, public library, church or public
park or any other smoke shop or smoking lounge;
      2.   Written approval from the property owner where such use is to be
established, authorizing same;
      3.   Each smoke shop and smoking lounge shall hold a valid California
cigarette and tobacco products retailer's license issued by the state board of
equalization, in accordance with state law, which shall be prominently
displayed in a publicly visible location at the establishment;
      4.   Each smoke shop and smoking lounge shall have an on site manager who
is a minimum of twenty one (21) years of age;
      5.   No person who is younger than the minimum age of eighteen (18) years
shall be permitted to sell, display, market, barter, trade, or exchange any
combination of tobacco, tobacco products, tobacco paraphernalia, electronic
smoking devices or electronic smoking device paraphernalia;
      6.   A fully functional color digital video camera system must be in
place to record the activities of the premises. Each smoke shop and smoking
lounge owner/operator along with staff are required to consult with and comply
with directions of the Selma police department for placement of such equipment.
The camera storage capacity should be for at least one week (7 calendar days),
and a minimum of one terabyte (TB). The system must continuously record, store,
be capable of playing back images and be fully functional at all times. Any
recordings of criminal activity shall be provided to the Selma police
department within twenty four (24) hours of the initial request;
      7.   All other applicable requirements of the provisions of this code,
including, but not limited to, title XI, chapter 28 of this code relating to
signs, will be observed. (Ord. 2016-02, 3-7-2016)
5-24-3: DRUG PARAPHERNALIA PROHIBITED:
Except as otherwise authorized by law, no person shall maintain or operate any
place of business in which drug paraphernalia is kept, displayed or offered in
any manner, sold, furnished or transferred or given away. For the purposes of
this section, the word "drug paraphernalia" shall be defined by reference to
the California Health And Safety Code section 11014.5, as it now exists or may
hereinafter be amended. (Ord. 2016-02, 3-7-2016)
5-24-4: PREEXISTING NONCONFORMING USES:
Prior to the effective date of this chapter, a smoke shop or smoking lounge
lawfully existing and holding a valid business license in the city of Selma,
may remain in existence until such time as there is a substantial change in the
mode or character of operation. For purposes of this section, a substantial
change of mode or character of operation shall include, but not be limited to,
structural changes by expansion of usable floor space or remodeling, a pattern
of conduct violates any other law or provision of this code, or a period of
closure for more than thirty (30) days. Transfers of ownership shall not be
considered a substantial change of mode or character of operation. When a
substantial change of mode or character of operation occurs, lawfully existing
smoke shops and smoking lounges must obtain a conditional use permit and shall
be otherwise subject to all of the provisions of this chapter and may not be
reestablished unless there is full compliance with all of the provisions of
this chapter. Prior to the effective date hereof, an inventory of existing
smoke shop and smoking lounges shall be conducted by city staff and filed with
the community development department. Upon completion of the inventory, only
those businesses listed in the inventory shall be deemed to be smoke shops or
smoking lounges lawfully existing as set forth in this section. (Ord. 2016-02,
3-7-2016)
CHAPTER 25
DOWNTOWN SELMA BUSINESS IMPROVEMENT DISTRICT
SECTION:
5-25-1: Authority
5-25-2: Designation
5-25-3: Description Of The District
5-25-4: Increase Of Business License Fee
5-25-5: Initial Rate Of Increase And Additional Levy Of Business License Fee
5-25-6: Definitions And Classifications
5-25-7: Collection Of District Assessments
5-25-8: Enforcement Of Provisions
5-25-9: District Services
5-25-10: Advisory Board
5-25-11: Regular And Additional Revenues - Deposits
5-25-12: Disestablishment
5-25-1: AUTHORITY:
This chapter is adopted pursuant to the provisions of the "Parking and Business
Improvement Area Law of 1989," being Sections 36500 et seq. of the California
Streets and Highway Code. (Ord. 2022-6, 10-17-2022)
5-25-2: DESIGNATION:
There is created and established a business improvement district area
designated as the "Downtown Selma Business Improvement District" ("District").
(Ord. 2022-6, 10-17-2022)
5-25-3: DESCRIPTION OF THE DISTRICT:
The exterior boundaries of the District is that portion of the Central
Commercial Zone District in the City of Selma, County of Fresno, State of
California, within the streets and address ranges as shown on Exhibit "A",
attached to this Ordinance 2022-6. (Ord. 2022-6, 10-17-2022)
5-25-4: INCREASE OF BUSINESS LICENSE FEE:
Effective January 1, 2023, there is imposed an initial increase and additional
levy of business license fees upon all businesses located within the boundaries
of the District which are required to pay a business license fee under the
provisions of Chapter 1 of Title 5 of this Code. (Ord. 2022-6, 10-17-2022)
5-25-5: INITIAL RATE OF INCREASE AND ADDITIONAL LEVY OF BUSINESS LICENSE FEE:
The initial increase and additional levy of the business license fees imposed
upon businesses within the District shall be an amount equal to one hundred
percent (100%) of the business license fees imposed by Chapter 1 of Title 5,
and subsequent amendments thereto, as the same applies to businesses located
within the District and which are required to pay a business license fee
("District Assessment"). Business within the District not required to pay a
business fee will be assessed an annual fee of One Hundred Dollars ($100.00).
The Advisory Board as defined in Section
5-25-10 may recommend to the City Council adjustments to the District
Assessment and the City Council shall have the authority to adjust the amount
of the District Assessment by resolution of the City Council. (Ord. 2022- 6,
10-17-2022)
5-25-6: DEFINITIONS AND CLASSIFICATIONS:
The definitions and classifications of businesses shall be determined by the
definitions and classifications set forth in Chapter 1 of Title 5 as the same
apply to businesses within the District. (Ord. 2022-6, 10-17-2022)
5-25-7: COLLECTION OF DISTRICT ASSESSMENTS:
The collection of the District Assessments imposed by this chapter shall be
made at the same time and in the same manner as the ordinary business license
fees pursuant to the provisions of Chapter 1 of Title 5 and shall be due and
payable and subject to the same penalties for delinquencies as provided in
Chapter 1 of Title 5 as the same applies to businesses paying a regular
business license fee. (Ord. 2022-6, 10-17-2022)
5-25-8: ENFORCEMENT OF PROVISIONS:
It shall be the duty of the City Clerk for the city or his/her appointee to
enforce the provisions of this chapter by any lawful means. (Ord. 2022-6, 10-
17-2022)
5-25-9: DISTRICT SERVICES:
The services (collectively "District Services") to be initially provided by the
District are as follows:
   (A)   Marketing strategies and programming to create an appealing and
vibrant Downtown Selma will be developed as part of the overall program.
Efforts will be made to encourage both locals and visitors to explore Downtown
Selma. Traditional and non-traditional marketing activities and products will
be explored including an interactive website, electronic communication tools
and printed materials.
   (B)   Attention will be made to address physical improvements. These may
include pressure washing sidewalks and alleys along with curb painting, above
and beyond what is currently done by the City. These efforts will improve
walkability within the Downtown.
   (C)   Business recruitment efforts will seek to increase the mix of retail/
restaurant businesses in collaboration with the City of Selma Economic
Development Department. In addition, compilation of periodic market reports
will guide the direction of business development.
The Advisory Board as defined in Section
5-25-10 may recommend to the city council changes to the District Services and
the city council shall have the authority to change the District Services by
resolution of the city council. (Ord. 2022-6, 10-17-2022)
5-25-10: ADVISORY BOARD:
For the purpose of advising the City Council and making recommendations
regarding the operation of the District, the services performed by the
District, and the methods and ways in which the revenue derived from the levy
of the District Assessments imposed by this chapter shall be used within the
scope of the services set forth in this chapter; and to perform such other
powers and duties as the City Council may determine, the Downtown Selma
Business Improvement District Advisory Board ("Advisory Board") is created.
The Advisory Board shall consist of nine (9) members appointed by a majority
vote of the City Council for a term of one (1) year.
The Advisory Board members shall be persons who own businesses within the
District that pay District Assessments as provided by this chapter. Annually,
the Advisory Board shall present an annual budget to the city council for
review and approval. The proposed budget shall include an estimate of income
and expenditures by the Advisory Board to carry out the purposes of the
District.
Advisory Board meetings shall be held at such stated times as may be fixed by
the commission by resolution. Special meetings of the commission may be called
by the chairperson or by any four (4) members. (Ord. 2022-6, 10-17-2022; amd.
Ord. 2023-8, 1-16-2024)
5-25-11: REGULAR AND ADDITIONAL REVENUES - DEPOSITS:
The District Assessments shall be deposited in the Downtown Selma Business
Improvement District Fund ("Fund") to be created by the city. All expenses of
the District shall be paid only from District Assessments deposited in the
Fund. (Ord. 2022-6, 10-17-2022)
5-25-12: DISESTABLISHMENT:
The City Council may disestablish the District by adopting an ordinance after
holding a public hearing on disestablishment in accordance with the provisions
on Section 36550 of the California Streets and Highway Code as amended. Upon
disestablishment of the District, any remaining revenues derivate from the levy
of District Assessments shall be refunded to the owners of the businesses
located and operating in the District in accordance with the provisions of
Section 36551 of the California Streets and Highway Code as amended. (Ord.
2022-6, 10-17-2022)
TITLE VI
POLICE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL OFFENSES
SECTION:
6-1-1: Purpose And Intent
6-1-2: Assault Or Battery
6-1-3: Assembly, Unlawful
6-1-4: Concealing Knowledge
6-1-5: Disorderly Conduct
6-1-6: Disturbing The Peace
6-1-7: Drunkenness
6-1-8: Escape, Aid In
6-1-9: Escapes
6-1-10: Expectorating On Sidewalk Or In Public Buildings
6-1-11: False Pretenses
6-1-12: False Representation
6-1-13: Gambling
6-1-14: General Offense
6-1-15: Hypnotists Prohibited
6-1-16: Indecent Exposure
6-1-17: Lottery
6-1-18: Lottery, Assisting In
6-1-19: Obscene Conduct
6-1-20: Obscene Literature, Distribution Of
6-1-21: Offense, Aid To An
6-1-22: Petit Theft
6-1-23: Police Officers, Assistance To
6-1-24: Prostitution
6-1-25: Prostitution, House Of
6-1-26: Resisting An Officer
6-1-27: Riot
6-1-28: Swindling
6-1-29: Trespassing
6-1-30: Vagrancy
6-1-31: Weapons, Furnishing To Prisoners
6-1-32: Loitering In Or About School Grounds
6-1-33: Unlawful Sale Of Alcoholic Beverages
6-1-1: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
The purpose and intent of this chapter is to provide minimum standards to
safeguard the life, health, property, and public welfare in keeping with the
character of the city by establishing and maintaining standards. (Ord. 2001-8,
11-19-2001)
6-1-2: ASSAULT OR BATTERY:
It shall be unlawful for any person to commit "assault" or "battery" which is
hereby defined as any wilful and unlawful use of force or violence upon the
person of another. (Ord. 2001-8, 11-19-2001)
6-1-3: ASSEMBLY, UNLAWFUL:
It shall be unlawful for two (2) or more persons to assemble together for the
purpose of disturbing the peace or for the purpose of committing an unlawful
act and not to disperse upon the command of an officer to do so. (Ord. 2001-8,
11-19-2001)
6-1-4: CONCEALING KNOWLEDGE:
It shall be unlawful for any person to conceal knowledge of the commission of
any offense or to conceal knowledge of any unlawful act as defined in this
code. (Ord. 2001-8, 11-19-2001)
6-1-5: DISORDERLY CONDUCT:
It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in any illegal or improper
diversion or to use insulting, indecent or immoral language, or to be guilty of
any indecent, insulting, or immoral conduct or behavior. (Ord. 2001-8, 11-19-
2001)
6-1-6: DISTURBING THE PEACE:
It shall be unlawful for any person, wilfully, maliciously, intentionally or
unnecessarily, to disturb the peace and quiet of another or of any neighborhood
or family or religious congregation or other assembly by loud or unusual noises
or indecent behavior or by offensive or unbecoming conduct or for any person to
threaten, quarrel, fight or provoke an assault or battery or curse or swear or
utter any obscene or vulgar or indecent language in the presence of another.
(Ord. 2001-8, 11-19-2001)
6-1-7: DRUNKENNESS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to be found drunk, intoxicated or under the
influence upon any public thoroughfare or other public place. (Ord. 2001-8, 11-
19-2001)
6-1-8: ESCAPE, AID IN:
It shall be unlawful for any person to aid or assist any person to escape from
lawful confinement or to assist any person to escape from the custody of any
peace officer. (Ord. 2001-8, 11-19-2001)
6-1-9: ESCAPES:
It shall be unlawful for any person convicted of any offense or in lawful
custody to escape or attempt to escape from custody. (Ord. 2001-8, 11-19-2001)
6-1-10: EXPECTORATING ON SIDEWALK OR IN PUBLIC BUILDINGS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to expectorate or spit upon any sidewalk or
upon the floor of any public building or room used for public assemblies. (Ord.
2001-8, 11-19-2001)
6-1-11: FALSE PRETENSES:
It shall be unlawful for any person to obtain any food, drink, goods, wares or
merchandise under false pretenses, or to enter any public place and call for
refreshments or other articles and receive and refuse to pay for same, or
depart without paying for or satisfying the person from whom he received the
food, goods, wares and merchandise. (Ord. 2001-8, 11-19-2001)
6-1-12: FALSE REPRESENTATION:
It shall be unlawful for any person to represent himself to be an officer of
the city or who shall attempt to impersonate any such officer or who shall,
without authority, perform any official act therein on behalf of an officer.
(Ord. 2001-8, 11-19-2001)
6-1-13: GAMBLING:
It shall be unlawful for any person to deal, play or conduct, either as owner,
employee or lessee, whether or not for hire, any game played with cards, dice
or any other device for money, checks, credit or other representative of value.
(Ord. 2001-8, 11-19-2001)
6-1-14: GENERAL OFFENSE:
It shall be unlawful for any person to commit any act or fail to perform any
requirement which is prohibited or required by state law, insofar as such laws
are applicable to municipal government. (Ord. 2001-8, 11-19-2001)
6-1-15: HYPNOTISTS PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to practice hypnotism or for any person to
be a subject for such hypnotist provided that this shall not apply to hypnotism
as used in the treatment of patients by an accredited doctor of medicine or
doctor of dentistry nor shall it prohibit the teaching of hypnotism in any
state accredited educational institution which maintains an academic standard
of the college level. (Ord. 2001-8, 11-19-2001)
6-1-16: INDECENT EXPOSURE:
It shall be unlawful for any person to appear in a state of nudity, or in any
indecent or lewd dress or condition in any public place or in any such place to
make any indecent exposure of his or her person or private parts thereof, or
the private parts of another, or to conduct himself in a lewd or lascivious
manner, or to appear in any such place in a dress not belonging to his sex.
(Ord. 2001-8, 11-19-2001)
6-1-17: LOTTERY:
   (A)   Engaging In Lottery Or Scheme Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any
person to engage in any lottery or scheme for the disposal or distribution of
property by chance among persons who have paid or promised to pay any valuable
consideration for the chance of obtaining such property or portion of it, or
for any share or interest in such property upon any agreement, understanding or
expectation that it is to be distributed or disposed of by lot or chance
whether such scheme be called lottery, raffle or gift enterprise, or by
whatever name the same be known, and no person shall contrive, prepare, set up
or establish any such scheme or lottery.
   (B)   Traffic In Lottery Tickets: It shall be unlawful for any person to
sell, give, or in any manner whatsoever furnish or transfer to or for any other
person, any ticket understood to be or to represent any ticket, chance, share
or interest in any property or thing involved, in any enterprise mentioned in
the preceding subsection or depending upon the event of any such scheme,
lottery or enterprise. (Ord. 2001-8, 11-19-2001)
6-1-18: LOTTERY, ASSISTING IN:
It shall be unlawful for any person to aid or assist either by printing,
writing, advertising, publishing or otherwise, in setting up, managing or
drawing any lottery or scheme, or in selling or disposing of any ticket, chance
or share therein, or for any person to let or permit to be used any building or
premises for any of said purposes. (Ord. 2001-8, 11-19-2001)
6-1-19: OBSCENE CONDUCT:
It shall be unlawful for any person to urinate or stool in any place open to
the public view, or to be guilty of any lewd, lascivious or obscene conduct or
to sing any lewd or obscene song, ballad or other words in any public place or
any other place where other persons are present or indecently to exhibit any
animal. (Ord. 2001-8, 11-19-2001)
6-1-20: OBSCENE LITERATURE, DISTRIBUTION OF:
It shall be unlawful or any person to exhibit, pass, give, or deliver to
another any obscene, lewd or indecent book, pamphlet, picture, card, print,
paper, writing, mold, cast, or figure or to have same in his possession. (Ord.
2001-8, 11-19-2001)
6-1-21: OFFENSE, AID TO AN:
It shall be unlawful for any person, in any way or manner, to aid, abet,
counsel, advise or encourage any other person in the commission of any of the
acts mentioned herein or in any manner encourage the commission of such offense
hereby defined. (Ord. 2001-8, 11-19-2001)
6-1-22: PETIT THEFT:
It shall be unlawful for any person to commit "petit theft" which is hereby
defined as a larceny when the property taken is of a value not exceeding two
hundred dollars ($200.00), or in the case of domestic fowls, fruits, or nuts,
not exceeding fifty dollars ($50.00). (Ord. 2001-8, 11-19-2001)
6-1-23: POLICE OFFICERS, ASSISTANCE TO:
It shall be unlawful for any male citizen over the age of eighteen (18) years
to refuse, or neglect to render assistance to any police officer when called
upon for such assistance, or aid in the suppression of riot, or other unlawful
assemblage or in the arrest of any person who has committed an offense. (Ord.
2001-8, 11-19-2001)
6-1-24: PROSTITUTION:
It shall be unlawful for any person to pursue or advertise in any manner her
location as a prostitute, or for any person to advertise the profession of a
prostitute, or solicit for a prostitute. (Ord. 2001-8, 11-19-2001)
6-1-25: PROSTITUTION, HOUSE OF:
It shall be unlawful for any person to keep or assist in the keeping of a house
of ill fame or prostitution or knowingly to reside therein or knowingly to
rent, lease or permit any person to occupy any house or room owned, leased or
controlled by him for this purpose. (Ord. 2001-8, 11-19-2001)
6-1-26: RESISTING AN OFFICER:
It shall be unlawful for any person to interfere wilfully with, resist, delay,
obstruct, molest or threaten any officer of the city in the exercise of his or
her official duties. (Ord. 2001-8, 11-19-2001)
6-1-27: RIOT:
It shall be unlawful for any person to fail or refuse immediately to disperse
upon an order to do so by a police officer, when three (3) or more persons are
assembled for the purpose of disturbing the peace, or for the purpose of
committing any unlawful act. (Ord. 2001-8, 11-19-2001)
6-1-28: SWINDLING:
It shall be unlawful for any person, who by color, or aid of any trick or
sleight of hand performance, or by fraud or by fraudulent scheme, cards, dice
or device, to win for himself, or for another, any money or property or a
representative of either. (Ord. 2001-8, 11-19-2001)
6-1-29: TRESPASSING:
It shall be unlawful for any person to take down any fence, or to let down any
bars, or to open any gate in or on the property of another without the consent
of the owner, occupant or person in charge thereof. (Ord. 2001-8, 11-19-2001)
6-1-30: VAGRANCY:
It shall be unlawful for any person without visible means of support and the
physical ability to work not to seek employment or labor, or to refuse to work
when employment is offered him; for any person to seek alms as a business; for
any person to roam about from place to place without any lawful business; for
any vile or dissolute person or associate of known thieves to wander about the
streets at a late and unusual hour of the night, or to lodge in any other place
than is kept for lodging purposes without the permission of the owner of the
property or the person in possession thereof; or for any person to consort
habitually with common prostitutes, habitual drunkards or any user of
narcotics. (Ord. 2001-8, 11-19-2001)
6-1-31: WEAPONS, FURNISHING TO PRISONERS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to furnish, or attempt to furnish, or take
into jail, or to deliver, or attempt to deliver to any prisoner therein
confined, or in the custody of any officer, any weapon, tool, intoxicating
liquors, drug or other article without the consent of the officer in charge.
(Ord. 2001-8, 11-19-2001)
6-1-32: LOITERING IN OR ABOUT SCHOOL GROUNDS:
It shall be unlawful for any person, not a student of the school involved, to
return to any school grounds, school buildings or streets, sidewalks, or public
ways adjacent thereto, without lawful business therein, within a period of
ninety (90) days if the person has been asked to leave the school grounds,
school buildings or streets, sidewalks, or public ways adjacent thereto, by the
chief administrative officer of said school, or by any certified school
employee designated as the agent of the chief administrative officer or by any
police officer for any of the following reasons:
   (A)   Misconduct on or about any of the above described premises;
("misconduct" is to be defined by local school regulations regarding conduct on
campus, and/or by Penal Code section 415);
   (B)   Conviction of any offense requiring registration under section 290 of
the Penal Code;
   (C)   Conviction of any offense included in division 10 or division 10.5 of
the Health and Safety Code;
   (D)   Repeated and/or frequent loitering in or about the above described
premises, without having lawful business at said premises. (Ord. 2001-8, 11-19-
2001)
6-1-33: UNLAWFUL SALE OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES:
No person, persons, or entity shall engage in the sale of any alcoholic
beverage on any public park, public recreation area, or playground, public
building, public street, sidewalk, or alley within the city. "Alcoholic
beverage" shall include alcohol, spirits, liquor, wine, and beer. (Ord. 2001-8,
11-19-2001)
CHAPTER 2
ANIMALS
SECTION:
6-2-1: Definitions
6-2-2: Pound Master
6-2-3: Impoundment Of Animals
6-2-4: Trespassing; Seizure
6-2-5: Record Of Impoundment
6-2-6: Duties Of Animal Control Officer
6-2-7: Authority Of Animal Control Officer
6-2-8: Animal Care
6-2-9: Limits On Number Of Dogs
6-2-10: Excessive Noise; Nuisance
6-2-11: Running At Large Prohibited
6-2-12: Animal Bites
6-2-13: Animals Bitten By Other Animals
6-2-14: Bringing Animal Into City
6-2-15: Dogs; License Required
6-2-16: Issuance Of License
6-2-17: Impoundment Of Unlicensed Dogs
6-2-18: Confinement Of Dogs Less Than Four Months Of Age
6-2-19: Redemption Of Impounded Animals
6-2-20: Impoundment Fees
6-2-21: Prohibition Of Fowl, Livestock And Wild Animals
6-2-22: Disposition Of Impounded Animals
6-2-23: Commercial Animal Establishments
6-2-24: Permit Requirements
6-2-25: Kennel Permit
6-2-26: Breeder Permit
6-2-27: Breeder Advertising
6-2-28: Reporting Of Dog Records
6-2-29: Spay/Neuter Compliance For Shelter Animals
6-2-30: Potbellied Pigs As Household Pets
6-2-31: Prohibition Of Dangerous Or Vicious Animals
6-2-32: Procedure To Determine If Animal Is Dangerous/Vicious
6-2-33: Impound Notice
6-2-34: Conduct Of Hearing
6-2-35: Hearing Decision
6-2-36: Disposition Of A Dangerous Or Vicious Animal
6-2-37: Procedure If Animal Is Not Found Dangerous/Vicious
6-2-38: Penalties For Animal Bites And Attacks
6-2-39: Penalties
6-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
   ANIMAL: Any living vertebrate member of the animal kingdom, excluding man.
   ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER: Any persons designated by the State of California,
City of Selma, or Fresno County as an animal control officer who is authorized
to perform such duties under the laws of this State.
   ANIMAL SHELTER: Any facility that is on property owned by the City of Selma,
operated by a humane society, or a public agency, or its authorized agents for
the purpose of impounding or caring for animals held under the authority of
this Chapter or State law.
   AT LARGE: Shall mean off the premises of the person owning or having the
possession, charge, custody, or control of the animal and not under the
immediate control of a person by means of an enclosure, leash, rope, or other
means of immediate effective physical control.
   AUCTION: A place or facility where animals are regularly bought, sold, or
traded, except for those facilities otherwise defined in this Chapter. This
Section does not apply to individual sales of animals by owners.
   BIRD: Any member of the bird family, including, but not limited to,
parakeets, cockatiels, macaws, parrots, finches, conures and swans,
domesticated to serve as a pet.
   BREEDER: Any person, persons or business who breeds two (2) or more litters
of dogs in one year for sale or profit.
   CAT: Any member of the feline family, wild and domesticated, and shall be
intended to mean both male and female.
   COMMERCIAL ANIMAL ESTABLISHMENT: Any pet shop, grooming shop, auction,
riding school or stable, zoological park, circus, performing animal exhibit, or
boarding kennel.
   DOG: Any member of the canine family, wild or domesticated, and shall be
intended to mean both male and female.
   DOMESTIC ANIMALS: Such as are habituated to live on or about the habitations
of persons or such as to contribute to the support of a family or the wealth of
the community.
   FOWL: Any chicken, duck, goose, turkey, guinea, pigeon, peacock or other
fowl.
   HEARING OFFICER: The Pound Master or any designee of the Pound Master.
   IMPOUNDMENT: Shall mean the taking up and confinement of any animal in an
animal shelter, veterinary hospital, or other facility.
   KENNEL: Any premises, wherein any person keeps six (6) or more dogs more
than four (4) months of age except commercial animal establishments.
   LITTER: A litter shall be defined as two (2) or more offspring from one or
more female dogs located at the same premises.
   LIVESTOCK: Any large animal kept or raised for use, pleasure or profit.
   OWNER: Any person, partnership, firm or corporation owning, keeping or
harboring one or more animals. An animal shall be deemed to be harbored if it
is fed or sheltered for three (3) consecutive days or more.
   PERSON: Any individual, partnership, firm, corporation, joint venture or
entity.
   PET: Any domesticated dog, cat, bird, potbelly pig, guinea pig, hamster or
aquarium kept for pleasure rather than utility.
   PET SHOP: Any person, partnership, firm or corporation whether operated
separately or in connection with another business enterprise except for
licensed kennels, that buy, sell, or board any species of animals.
   POUND MASTER: Shall mean the person appointed by the City Manager. That
person may be the party with whom the City has contracted for the performance
of pound services. Whenever the term "Pound Master" shall be used in this
Chapter, it shall include his or her designee.
   PREMISES: Shall mean a house, other dwelling, a yard or other area so
enclosed as to prevent a dog from escaping.
   PRIVATE PROPERTY: That property on which a person or persons have the
exclusive rights of disposition.
   PUBLIC NUISANCE: Any animal or animals which:
      (A)   Molests passersby or chases passing vehicles.
      (B)   Attacks other animals.
      (C)   Trespasses on school grounds.
      (D)   Is repeatedly at large.
      (E)   Damages private or public property.
      (F)   Barks, whines, or howls or makes any other noise that disturbs the
comfort and quiet of any neighborhood or any person.
   PUBLIC PLACE: Any park, public building, playground, street, road, alleyway,
or other place open to the general public.
   RESTRAINT: A leash not in excess of eight feet (8'), a tethered lead, or a
fenced enclosure which keeps the animal under the control of a responsible
person or within the real property limits of its owner.
   VETERINARY HOSPITAL: Any establishment maintained and operated by a licensed
veterinarian for surgery, diagnosis and treatment of diseases and injuries of
animals.
   VICIOUS ANIMAL: Any animal, wild or domesticated, that attacks or bites any
person or animal upon any public or private property within the City.
   WILD ANIMAL: Any nondomesticated animal living in a feral state. (Ord. 97-5,
8-18-1997)
6-2-2: POUND MASTER:
The Chief of Police, in addition to his other duties, shall perform the duties
of Pound Master, in the absence of a pound master specially appointed. The
Chief of Police shall designate a police employee as the Animal Control
Officer. In addition, all police officers of the City are required to perform
the duties of the Animal Control Officer as may be required by the Chief of
Police. (Ord. 97-5, 8-18-1997)
6-2-3: IMPOUNDMENT OF ANIMALS:
The Pound Master, or his designee, shall take up, impound and safely keep any
dog which is found running at large contrary to the provisions of this Chapter
within the incorporated territory of the City. (Ord. 97-5, 8-18-1997)
6-2-4: TRESPASSING; SEIZURE:
Any animal, including, but not limited to, dogs found trespassing on private
property may be taken up by the owner of the private property and turned over
to the Pound Master to be disposed of as provided by law. (Ord. 97-5, 8-18-
1997)
6-2-5: RECORD OF IMPOUNDMENT:
The Pound Master shall keep a record of all impounded animals, including a
description of the animal, the date of receipt, the date and manner of
disposal, the name of the person redeeming or purchasing, and the fees, charges
and proceeds of sales received on account of said animal, and such additional
records as may be required by the City Council from time to time. The Pound
Master shall provide the necessary subsistence for all animals that are
impounded. (Ord. 97-5, 8-18-1997)
6-2-6: DUTIES OF ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER:
The duties of the Animal Control Officer shall be as follows:
   (A)   To take up and impound any dog or other animals (except cats), found
to be running at large, staked, tied or being herded or pastured in any public
place within the City or upon the premises of any person other than the owner
of such dog.
   (B)   To make a complete registry of impounded dogs, showing in detail in
the case of each dog, the date of receipt, the breed, color, and sex of such
dog, and if licensed, the number of such license and the name and address of
the owners.
   (C)   To notify by mail the owner of any animal, bearing identification,
impounded by the Animal Control Officer, stating that such animal is confined
at the City Animal Shelter, and specify the amount necessary to reclaim or
redeem the same and the period which the animal will be held before destroying
or otherwise disposing of the same. (Ord. 97-5, 8-18-1997)
6-2-7: AUTHORITY OF ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER:
   (A)   Authority: Each animal control officer shall have, and is hereby
vested with the authority of a public officer. The animal control officers may,
in the performance of their duties, enter upon any property pursuant to law, to
ascertain if any of the provisions of this Chapter or any State laws relating
to disease, care, treatment, or cruelty to animals are being violated. Each
animal control officer may issue citations for the violation of the provisions
of this Chapter, any State law, or City ordinance in the manner prescribed by
the ordinance, and remove animals from said premises if they deem necessary.
The authority to issue citations in the manner prescribed by the City shall be
alternative to any other authority provided by law.
   (B)   Police Powers: Any animal control officer of the City shall have
police powers in the enforcement of this Chapter and no person shall interfere
with, hinder, molest or abuse any animal control officer of the City in the
exercise of such powers.
   (C)   Animal Control Devices: In the performance of duties for the control
of animals, the Animal Control Officer shall have the authority to employ the
use of the tranquilizer gun or other animal control devices in common use
within the State of California.
   (D)   Quarantine Of Suspected Animal: Whenever the owner of any animal shall
observe or learn that the animal has rabies; has symptoms of rabies; has been
exposed to rabies or has acted in a manner which would lead him to suspect that
it might have rabies, the owner shall immediately notify the Pound Master and
shall allow the Pound Master to make an inspection or examination of the
animal. Whenever it appears to the Pound Master that the animal has rabies or
has been exposed to rabies, he shall quarantine the animal until it shall be
established to his satisfaction that the animal has or does not have rabies.
   (E)   Destruction Of Rabid Animals: If it appears to the Pound Master that
an animal has rabies, he shall cause same to be destroyed in a lawful manner,
which may include destroying the animal immediately if this is the only method
available to contain the animal. (Ord. 97-5, 8-18-1997)
6-2-8: ANIMAL CARE:
It shall be unlawful for the owners or persons having custody of any animal to
permit, either wilfully or through failure to exercise due care or control, any
cruel acts upon any animal. "Cruel acts" are defined as follows:
   (A)   To place, leave or expose, making accessible to animals, any poisonous
substance.
   (B)   To have, keep, or harbor any animal which is infected with any
dangerous or incurable or painfully crippling condition, except as hereinafter
provided. All such diseased or crippled animals with an incurable ailment taken
into custody of the City shall be transferred to the Pound Master for
impoundment. This Section shall not apply to animals within veterinary
hospitals or under the care of a veterinarian, or having been diagnosed with
any common, incurable disease where impoundment or quarantine is not
recommended by a doctor of veterinary medicine.
   (C)   To fail, refuse, or neglect to provide any animal in their charge or
custody as owner or otherwise, with food, drink, shade or weatherproof housing
facilities, or to carry any animal in or upon any vehicle in a cruel or
inhumane manner.
   (D)   To wilfully, or maliciously kill, maim, disfigure, tease, torture,
beat with a stick, chain, club, or other object, mutilate, burn, scald with any
substance, overdrive or other cruelty set upon any animal, except that a
reasonable force may be employed to drive off vicious or trespassing animals.
   (E)   To hobble livestock or other animals by means of chains which are
composed of tempered or other permanent wire links.
   (F)   To drive or work any animal in a cruel manner when such animal is
unfit for such work.
   (G)   To promote, stage, hold, manage, conduct, carry on, or attend any
game, exhibition, contest, or fight in which one or more animals are engaged
for the purpose of injuring, killing, maiming, or destroying themselves or any
other animal or person.
   (H)   No person shall keep upon any premises, any animals in a foul,
offensive, obnoxious, filthy or unsanitary condition. (Ord. 97-5, 8-18-1997)
6-2-9: LIMITS ON NUMBER OF DOGS:
No person shall keep, harbor or maintain upon his premises within the City more
than a total of five (5) dogs over the age of four (4) months unless said
person shall obtain a kennel permit in addition to obtaining a license for each
dog more than four (4) months of age and shall comply with the kenneling permit
requirements of this Chapter, unless said person comes within one of the
following conditions:
   (A)   Upon reasonable showing of necessity to the Animal Control Officer, a
person may be permitted to keep a dog for a period of time not to exceed thirty
(30) days.
   (B)   A person who had on or before the effective date hereof six (6) or
more licensed dogs in the City shall be required to obtain a yearly kennel
permit pursuant to Section
6-2-25 of this Chapter. The requirement of obtaining a kennel permit shall be
effective ninety (90) days after the effective date hereof. (Ord. 97-5, 8-18-
1997)
6-2-10: EXCESSIVE NOISE; NUISANCE:
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any dog to be kept in the City, which dog
shall by loud or excessive barking, howling, whining or making any other noise
disturb the comfort or quiet of any neighborhood or any person; provided that
said owner has been made aware of the disturbance created by the dog.
   (B)   No person shall keep or maintain, or cause or permit to be kept or
maintained upon any premises, any dog which by habitual and continual barking,
howling or whining shall disturb the peace and comfort of any neighborhood or
interfere with the reasonable and comfortable enjoyment of life or property by
any person.
   (C)   No person shall keep or maintain, or cause or permit to be kept or
maintained, any dog owned by him or in his possession or under his control
which habitually commits a nuisance upon the property of any other person.
(Ord. 97-5, 8-18-1997)
6-2-11: RUNNING AT LARGE PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any person having the care or possession of a dog or
any other animal to allow or permit the dog or other animal to run at large
within the City. (Ord. 97-5, 8-18-1997)
6-2-12: ANIMAL BITES:
Whenever it is shown that any animal has bitten any person, the owner thereof
shall, upon the order of the Pound Master, quarantine it and keep it tied up or
confined for a period of ten (10) days, and shall allow the Pound Master or
other authorized official to make an examination of the animal at any time
during the period of quarantine. (Ord. 97-5, 8-18-1997)
6-2-13: ANIMALS BITTEN BY OTHER ANIMALS:
Whenever any animal shall be bitten by another animal having rabies or showing
symptoms of having rabies, the owner of the animal so bitten, shall upon being
informed thereof, either destroy the animal, quarantine it and keep it confined
for a period of six (6) months, or place the animal in the care of a duly
licensed veterinarian for the purpose of having the standard anti-rabies
treatment administered and keep the same confined for a period of three (3)
weeks after the treatment has been completed. The Pound Master shall have the
power to either destroy, quarantine or treat the animal so bitten in case the
owner thereof shall fail to do so immediately, or in case the owner is not
immediately available. (Ord. 97-5, 8-18-1997)
6-2-14: BRINGING ANIMAL INTO CITY:
No person shall bring an animal or permit an animal to enter the City in which
rabies exists, or has existed within the previous six (6) months unless the
animal has been vaccinated with anti-rabies vaccine, and the owner of the
animal has an official tag or other receipt showing that the animal has been
vaccinated by a duly licensed veterinarian. (Ord. 97-5, 8-18-1997)
6-2-15: DOGS; LICENSE REQUIRED:
   (A)   An owner of a dog shall secure a license for their dog within thirty
(30) days after they acquire ownership of the dog. However, if a dog is less
than four (4) months of age when the owner acquires it, the owner shall secure
a license for the dog within thirty (30) days after the dog reaches four (4)
months of age. Any person who enters the City intending to reside in the City
beyond a period of thirty (30) days, and who has brought a dog with them from
outside the City, shall secure a license for the dog within thirty (30) days
after the person first enters the City. Prior to issuing a license for a dog,
the owner shall present for filing with the Finance Department, a certificate
signed by a duly licensed veterinarian showing that the dog has been vaccinated
against rabies and owner shall pay the annual City license fee.
   (B)   The license shall be renewed on January 1 of each year thereafter;
provided, however, if the license fee is not paid on or before March 31 of each
year, there shall be a penalty due in addition to the regular license fee.
   (C)   Provided further that should the license fee not be paid before June
30 of each year, there shall be an increased penalty for the late payment in
addition to the regular license fee.
   (D)   The annual license fee and any penalties due shall be payable to and
collected by the Finance Department. The license fee and penalties shall be set
by resolution of the City Council and shall be prorated the first year based on
the remaining months in the calendar year. Any application received after
December 1 shall be issued a license for the following year. (Ord. 97-5, 8-18-
1997)
6-2-16: ISSUANCE OF LICENSE:
Upon payment of the license fee and any penalties due, the Finance Department
shall issue to the person making the payment a license and a tag bearing the
serial number and year for which the license is issued.
The license tag must, in all cases and at all times, be fastened to a
substantial collar worn around the neck of the dog for which it was issued.
Whenever a tag issued for the then current year has been stolen or lost, the
owner of the dog for which the tag was issued may, upon the payment of a fee in
an amount which shall be set by resolution of the City Council, obtain a
replacement tag for the animal. Fees for replacement shall be set on an annual
basis upon the recommendation of the Finance Department. (Ord. 97-5, 8-18-1997)
6-2-17: IMPOUNDMENT OF UNLICENSED DOGS:
Any dog upon which the license fee is unpaid, or upon which the owner refuses
to pay the license fee, or refuses to have the dog vaccinated as herein
required, may be lawfully taken up and impounded by the Pound Master, his
designee, or any peace officer of the City, and it shall be lawful for such
officer to enter upon the property of any person for the purpose of enforcing
this Section.
Any dog taken up and impounded as provided shall be held at the City Pound for
five (5) days and if the requirements of this Section are not met within five
(5) days, the Pound Master shall cause the dog to be disposed of as required by
law.
In addition to the requirements for the license fees, the owner shall also pay
redemption and impoundment fees. (Ord. 97-5, 8-18-1997)
6-2-18: CONFINEMENT OF DOGS LESS THAN FOUR MONTHS OF AGE:
All dogs less than four (4) months of age shall be confined to the premises of,
or kept under physical restraint by the owner, keeper, or harborer. Nothing in
this Section shall be construed to prevent the sale or transportation of a
puppy four (4) months old or younger. (Ord. 97-5, 8-18-1997)
6-2-19: REDEMPTION OF IMPOUNDED ANIMALS:
The owner or person(s) entitled to the control of any animal, which is
impounded, may at any time prior to the lawful disposal of the animal redeem
the animal by paying all applicable fees. (Ord. 97-5, 8-18-1997)
6-2-20: IMPOUNDMENT FEES:
The fees for impoundment and redemption of all animals impounded under this
Chapter shall be established by resolution of the City Council. (Ord. 97-5, 8-
18-1997)
6-2-21: PROHIBITION OF FOWL, LIVESTOCK AND WILD ANIMALS:
No person shall keep, harbor, maintain upon his premises within the City any
fowl, livestock or wild animals, except for pets. If a person has any fowl,
livestock or wild animals on the effective date hereof, the person shall have
ninety (90) days from the effective date hereof to come into compliance with
this Section. (Ord. 97-5, 8-18-1997)
6-2-22: DISPOSITION OF IMPOUNDED ANIMALS:
All animals impounded under the provisions of this Chapter shall be disposed of
as provided by law; provided that no impounded dog shall be disposed of until
after written notice has been given by the Pound Master or his designee to the
owner of said dog as provided herein. If the dog is licensed under the
provisions of this Chapter and there is affixed to the collar of the dog a City
license tag, the notice shall be given to the owner at the address set forth in
the City licensing records. If the dog is not licensed and there is no license
tag attached to the collar of the dog, no notice need be given. The notice
shall contain a description of the dog impounded, the breed, sex and the date
the dog was impounded. The notice shall be served by mailing a copy thereof by
United States mail to the owner of the dog at the last address of the owner as
shown on the City's records. If no person appears and redeems the dog within
five (5) days from the date of mailing of the notice or within five (5) days
after the dog was impounded, whichever is later, the Pound Master shall cause
the dog to be disposed of as provided by law. Provided however, that any
interested person may redeem the impounded dog or any other animal upon payment
of all applicable fees. (Ord. 97-5, 8-18-1997)
6-2-23: COMMERCIAL ANIMAL ESTABLISHMENTS:
It is unlawful for any person, firm, corporation, or association to erect,
establish, maintain any commercial animal establishment or pet shop without
first obtaining a business license from the City. After inspection and approval
of the conditions of the commercial animal establishment by the Pound Master,
the required business license may be issued by the City. Such license shall be
issued pursuant to City licensing regulations, provided any inspection by the
Pound Master and other City officials does not reveal any violation of the
provisions of this Chapter, the City Building Codes and Zoning Ordinances and
any other ordinances, rules or regulations.
Every person within the City who owns, conducts, manages, a commercial animal
establishment for which a City business license or special use permit is
required shall comply with each of the following conditions:
   (A)   Housing facilities shall be structurally sound and shall be maintained
in good repair to protect animals from injury and restrict entrance of other
animals.
   (B)   All animals and all animal buildings or enclosures shall be maintained
in a clean and sanitary condition.
   (C)   All animals shall be supplied with sufficient good and wholesome food
and water as often as the feeding habits of the respective animals require.
   (D)   Animal buildings and enclosures shall be so constructed and maintained
as to prevent escape of animals.
   (E)   All reasonable precautions shall be taken to protect the public from
the animals and the animals from the public.
   (F)   Every building or enclosure wherein animals are maintained shall be
properly ventilated to prevent drafts and to remove odors. Heating and cooling
shall be provided as required according to the physical needs of the animals.
   (G)   All animal rooms, cages, and runs shall be of sufficient size to
provide adequate and proper housing for animals kept therein.
   (H)   All animal runs shall be of concrete and provided with adequate
drainage into an approved sewer or individual sewer disposal installation.
   (I)   All animals shall be taken to a licensed veterinarian for an
examination and treatment if so ordered by the Animal Control Officer.
   (J)   Every violation of applicable regulation shall be corrected within
reasonable time to be specified by the Animal Control Officer.
   (K)   Commercial animal establishments shall comply with all other
applicable Selma codes and ordinances.
   (L)   All commercial animal establishments may be inspected from time to
time by an animal control officer to investigate any complaints of violations
of the provisions of this Section.
Failure of the applicant for a license or special use permit to comply with any
one of the foregoing conditions shall be deemed just cause for the denial of
any business license, whether original or renewal and/or the issuance of a
citation for violations pursuant to provisions of this Section. (Ord. 97-5, 8-
18-1997)
6-2-24: PERMIT REQUIREMENTS:
Application for all kennel or breeder permits pursuant to this Chapter shall be
filed with the Police Department on a form prescribed by the Police Department.
Fees charged for these permits shall be set annually by resolution of City
Council. The kennel and breeder permits shall be issued for the calendar year
or any part thereof and are effective from January 1 of each year and expire on
December 31 of that same year. Renewal and payment of the permit are due and
payable on January 1 of each year. The Finance Department shall collect a
delinquent penalty in an amount equal to the amount as established for license
penalties. Any or all of the permits within this Code may be immediately
suspended for any violations of the permit. (Ord. 97-5, 8-18-1997)
6-2-25: KENNEL PERMIT:
It shall be unlawful for any person(s) to own, maintain, or harbor any more
than five (5) dogs combined within the City limits without first obtaining a
kennel permit from the Pound Master. A kennel permit shall permit no more than
ten (10) dogs to be kept, harbored or maintained upon a person's premises
within the incorporated area of the City subject to approval of the Pound
Master. The kennel permit fee shall be set by resolution of the City Council.
The applicant for a kennel permit must comply with the following conditions
before issuance of a permit:
   (A)   Zoning conformance must first be established for each kennel
construction/use proposal prior to proceeding with environmental health,
sanitation, and construction evaluations of the proposal.
   (B)   Complete plans and specifications of the kennel facilities shall be
submitted to and be approved by both the Building Official and the Health
Officer prior to the construction.
   (C)   Kennel buildings (pens) shall not be located within fifty feet (50')
of any property line nor forty feet (40') from any habitable building.
   (D)   Unless served by a public sewer, separate sewage disposal systems for
kennels with a one thousand five hundred (1,500) gallon septic tank must be
installed to serve the manure flushing process.
   (E)   Leach lines or seepage pits must meet all minimum setback
requirements, and an area for one hundred percent (100%) replacement of leach
system must be set aside which must also meet all minimum setback requirements.
   (F)   Kennel buildings must be constructed with masonry walls, sloped to
drain concrete floors, soundproofing, including double pane windows and
adequate ventilation as determined by the Building Official.
   (G)   Dogs must be placed in the masonry kennel building from six o'clock
(6:00) P.M. to seven o'clock (7:00) A.M.
   (H)   The entire kennel and pen area must be screened from view by a solid
six foot (6') high fence. Dogs may at no time run loose or be outside of this
fenced area unless on a leash.
   (I)   Minimum dog run size (horizontal dimension) will be four feet by ten
feet (4' x 10') inside kennel area and four feet by twelve feet (4' x 12')
outside kennel area.
   (J)   Feed storage, medicated feed, medicine and supplies must be kept safe
from children and others in a separate locked rodent-proof room or secured
place. All feed shall be kept in rodent-proof containers which are placed
eighteen inches (18") above the floor surfaces.
   (K)   Separate hand washing and toilet room facilities must be available in
the kennel area.
   (L)   Pens must be clean and sanitary at all times with an effective fly and
odor control program submitted to the Animal Control Officer for staff's
approval.
   (M)   No portion of the kennel or its dog occupants will be allowed to
become a nuisance.
   (N)   No exterior lighting shall interfere with neighboring residential
properties.
   (O)   Maximum dog occupancy of each and all portions of the kennel
facilities shall be as determined by the Health Officer or any special land use
persons.
   (P)   In lieu of any the foregoing requirements, the owner may propose an
alternative which meets the intent of these requirements. The owner must prove
the equivalent adequacy of the alternative. The approval of alternatives is
required prior to issuance of a permit.
Upon completion of the above requirements and final construction approval by
the Building Division of the Community Development Department, a kennel license
shall be obtained from the Finance Department of the City.
The permit will be for a calendar year, or any part thereof in which the permit
is required, with the permit fee due and payable on January 1 of each year.
(Ord. 97-5, 8-18-1997)
6-2-26: BREEDER PERMIT:
It shall be unlawful for any person to breed two (2) or more litters of dogs in
one calendar year from one premises without first obtaining a breeder permit.
The fees for a breeder permit shall be set by resolution of the City Council
and must be submitted to the Department of Finance. Breeding permit
requirements are as follows:
   (A)   No offspring can be sold/adopted until they reach between six to eight
(6-8) weeks of age;
   (B)   No offspring can be sold/adopted until vaccinated against common
diseases;
   (C)   The breeder permit holder must display the permit number when
advertising the animals for sale/adoption. (Ord. 97-5, 8-18-1997)
6-2-27: BREEDER ADVERTISING:
It shall be unlawful for any breeder to advertise for the sale/adoption of a
litter of dogs in the City without including in the advertisement a City
breeder permit number. (Ord. 97-5, 8-18-1997)
6-2-28: REPORTING OF DOG RECORDS:
Every commercial animal establishment, breeders, kennels and others who sell or
adopt animals must keep permanent records of all dogs sold or adopted and
forward such information on a monthly basis to the Pound Master for licensing
and confirmation of rabies vaccination. (Ord. 97-5, 8-18-1997)
6-2-29: SPAY/NEUTER COMPLIANCE FOR SHELTER ANIMALS:
A spay or neuter deposit will be required upon the purchase of any unaltered
dog from the City Animal Shelter pursuant to Food and Agriculture Code section
30503. The deposit will be applied to the spay or neuter surgery of the animal.
Any dog sold from the City Animal Shelter shall be spayed or neutered within
thirty (30) days of adoption for animals more than six (6) months of age. For
animals less than six (6) months old, they shall be spayed or neutered within
thirty (30) days of reaching six (6) months of age for females and within
thirty (30) days of reaching eight (8) months of age for males. An extension of
time to perform surgery may be granted by the Pound Master if a veterinarian
provides a medical determination that the surgery cannot be performed as
scheduled and must be postponed. (Ord. 97-5, 8-18-1997)
6-2-30: POTBELLIED PIGS AS HOUSEHOLD PETS:
Under the following conditions, potbellied pigs may be kept as household pets:
   (A)   An owner of a potbellied pig shall secure a license for their
potbellied pig in the same manner as specified in Section
6-2-15 of this Chapter.
   (B)   Potbellied pigs may only be kept as pets at single-family detached
residential dwelling units with individual fenced yards.
   (C)   A maximum of one potbellied pig may be kept at any residence as
described above. A potbellied pig will substitute for a dog when enumerating
the permissible total number of dogs per residence under Section
 6-2-9 of this Chapter or other applicable section.
   (D)   Yards and other enclosing structures where potbellied pigs are kept
shall be built and maintained so as to keep the animals effectively confined.
   (E)   Yards and structures where potbellied pigs are kept shall be
maintained free of nuisances such as odors, flies, and accumulated waste
material.
   (F)   Tusks (canine teeth) of potbellied pigs shall be removed or kept
trimmed below the level of adjacent teeth.
   (G)   Female potbellied pigs shall be spayed prior to five (5) months of age
and male potbellied pigs shall be neutered prior to seven (7) weeks of age; or,
if older animals are brought to a residence in the City for pet purposes,
spaying and neutering shall be done within two (2) weeks of being brought to
residential property within City limits. No breeding of, nor raising litters
of, potbellied pigs shall be allowed at any residence.
   (H)   Potbellied pigs shall be registered/certified by the Potbellied Pigs
Registry Service, Incorporated or the North American Potbellied Pig Association
as purebred potbellied pigs.
   (I)   Each pet potbellied pig shall annually be examined by a licensed
veterinarian, who will certify the following and prepare a written record of
these certifications:
      1.   Documentation showing that the animal is registered or certified by
either the Potbellied Pig Registry Service, Incorporated or the North American
Potbellied Pig Association, accompanied by a photograph which can be used to
identify the animal described in the registration/certification papers;
      2.   The age of the potbellied pig;
      3.   Verification that the animal has been neutered (if male) or spayed
(if female);
      4.   Verification that the potbellied pig has current negative blood
tests for brucellosis and pseudorabies;
      5.   Verification that the animal's tusks have been removed, or have been
trimmed so that the ends of the tusks will remain below the height of adjacent
teeth until the next scheduled trimming;
      6.   Verification that the potbellied pig has a current negative test for
ova and parasites and/or the animal is being treated with an effective
deworming program to prevent tapeworm infection;
      7.   Verification that the potbellied pig is in good health, with no
symptoms of communicable swine diseases or zoonoses;
      8.   The actual weight of the potbellied pig. This certification document
or veterinary record shall be legibly signed by the veterinarian, and shall
include the printed name, address, license number and business telephone number
of the veterinarian.
   (J)   The most recent veterinary certification, as described in subsection
(H) of this Section, shall be kept at the premises where any pet potbellied pig
is being maintained, and shall be promptly presented upon request, so that the
elements in this documentation may be verified by representatives of City Code
Enforcement, County or State Health Services, animal health/veterinary, and/or
animal welfare agencies.
   (K)   The weight of a pet potbellied pig shall not exceed one hundred twenty
(120) pounds. (Ord. 97-5, 8-18-1997)
6-2-31: PROHIBITION OF DANGEROUS OR VICIOUS ANIMALS:
It shall be unlawful for a person to keep a dangerous or vicious animal. Any
animal which has been found to be dangerous or vicious pursuant to the
Ordinance Code of the City, or any other county or city ordinance or any state
statute, shall be conclusively presumed to be dangerous or vicious. (Ord. 97-5,
8-18-1997)
6-2-32: PROCEDURE TO DETERMINE IF ANIMAL IS DANGEROUS/VICIOUS:
   (A)   The Animal Control Officer shall determine whether an animal is
dangerous or vicious whenever it has attacked, bitten or caused injury to any
human or other animal. Within two (2) business days after an animal which is
wearing a license tag is impounded pursuant to this Chapter, the Animal Control
Officer shall mail a notice of the Animal Control Officer's determination that
the animal is dangerous or vicious and of the owner's right to a hearing on the
issue of whether or not the animal is dangerous/vicious. The Hearing Officer
shall be the Pound Master or his designee.
   (B)   The owner of an animal confined or impounded pursuant to this Section
may, within the time period provided for application for redemption of the
animal, request a hearing to determine whether or not the animal is dangerous/
vicious.
   (C)   When a hearing is requested pursuant to subsection (B) of this
Section, the Animal Control Officer shall set a date and time for such a
hearing and send a notice thereof by regular mail at least five (5) business
days, including Saturday, before such date to the owner at the address set
forth on his or her request and shall also notify the victim and the Hearing
Officer. (Ord. 97-5, 8-18-1997)
6-2-33: IMPOUND NOTICE:
Within two (2) business days after an animal which is wearing a license tag is
impounded, the Animal Control Officer shall mail a notice of the impounding to
the owner of the animal at the address shown on the application for the license
which is on file in the office of the Pound Master, and advise the owner of the
procedure whereby he may regain custody of the animal. A fee shall be paid by
the owner to the City any time that the Animal Control Officer transports an
animal to the City Animal Shelter. A fee for boarding the animal shall also be
charged. The fees shall be determined by City resolution based upon the cost of
providing the service. (Ord. 97-5, 8-18-1997)
6-2-34: CONDUCT OF HEARING:
   (A)   A hearing requested in accordance with subsection
6-2-32(B) of this Chapter shall be conducted before a person appointed a
Hearing Officer. The Animal Control Officer shall send notice to victims
requesting this hearing.
   (B)   The hearing shall be open to the public. The owner may be represented
by counsel. The Hearing Officer shall hear all pertinent evidence offered by
all interested persons. The technical rules of evidence shall not be applicable
to the hearing, except that the Hearing Officer's decision may not be based
wholly on hearsay evidence. Each side shall have the right to call and examine
witnesses; to introduce exhibits; to cross-examine opposing witnesses on any
matter relevant to the issues at the hearing even though the matter was not
covered in the direct examination; to impeach any witness regardless of which
party first called him or her to testify, and to rebut the evidence against him
or her. If the owner does not testify on his or her behalf, he or she may be
called and examined as if under cross-examination, except where criminal
charges under Section
6-2-38 of this Chapter are pending against the owner or if it is possible that
such charges may be brought against the owner. All persons giving evidence
shall be sworn before testifying. The owner may employ a shorthand reporter to
record the hearing.
   (C)   Any animal which has attacked, bitten or caused injury to a human
being or other animal is presumed to be dangerous or vicious and the burden is
on the owner to present evidence that the animal is not dangerous/vicious.
   (D)   In making a determination that an animal is or is not dangerous/
vicious, evidence of the following shall be considered:
      1.   Any previous history of the animal attacking, biting or causing
injury to a human being or other animal;
      2.   The nature and extent of injuries inflicted and the number of
victims involved;
      3.   The place where the bite, attack or injury occurred;
      4.   The presence or absence of any provocation for the bite, attack or
injury;
      5.   The extent to which property has been damaged or destroyed;
      6.   Whether the animal exhibits any characteristics of being trained for
fighting or attack or other evidence to show such training or fighting;
      7.   Whether the animal exhibits characteristics or aggressive or
unpredictable temperament or behavior in the presence of human beings or dogs
or other animals;
      8.   Whether the animal can be effectively trained to change its
temperament or behavior;
      9.   The manner in which the animal has been maintained by its owner or
custodian;
      10.   Any other relevant evidence concerning the maintenance of the
animal; and
      11.   Any other relevant evidence regarding the ability of the owner or
custodian to protect the public safety in the future if the animal is permitted
to remain in the City. (Ord. 97-5, 8-18-1997)
6-2-35: HEARING DECISION:
   (A)   At the conclusion of the hearing, the Hearing Officer may determine:
      1.   That the animal is not a dangerous or vicious animal and should be
returned to its owner;
      2.   That the animal is not dangerous or vicious, but the attack, bite or
injury was the result of improper or negligent training, handling or
maintenance and that the license should be revoked and proper training of the
owner and the dog be required pursuant to Section
6-2-37 of this Chapter.
      3.   That the animal is a dangerous or vicious animal and it should be
humanely destroyed no sooner than the fifth business day following the mailing
of notice of the Hearing Officer's decision, pursuant to Section 6-2-36 of this
Chapter.
   (B)   The decision of the Hearing Officer shall be in writing and shall be
delivered personally to the owner or mailed to him or her by regular mailing at
the address appearing on the request for hearing. A copy of the decision shall
be mailed to the Animal Control Officer.
   (C)   Judicial review of a decision of the Hearing Officer made after a
hearing pursuant to section 1094.6 of the California Code of Civil Procedure
where and to the extent said section may be applicable. (Ord. 97-5, 8-18-1997)
6-2-36: DISPOSITION OF A DANGEROUS OR VICIOUS ANIMAL:
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to own, possess, harbor or keep
any animal declared to be dangerous or vicious pursuant to Section
6-2-31 of this Chapter and subsection
6-2-35(A)3 of this Chapter.
   (B)   Any animal declared to be dangerous/vicious, if not already impounded,
shall be immediately surrendered to the Animal Control Officer, and it is the
duty of the Animal Control Officer to take up and impound any such animal.
   (C)   Any animal declared to be dangerous or vicious shall be humanely
destroyed. The Animal Control Officer shall sign an order authorizing the
destruction of the animal within two (2) business days after the time for
judicial review, as provided by Section
 6-2-35 of this Chapter, has passed without a request for judicial review being
filed, or after the fifth business day after the Hearing Officer's decision
affirming that the animal is dangerous or vicious has been served upon the
Animal Control Officer. (Ord. 97-5, 8-18-1997)
6-2-37: PROCEDURE IF ANIMAL IS NOT FOUND DANGEROUS/VICIOUS:
If it is determined that the animal is not dangerous or vicious, but that the
bite, attack or injury was the result of improper or negligent training,
handling or maintenance, then the following conditions will be enforced:
   (A)   Training will be required of the owner and the animal.
   (B)   The current license will be revoked and a "provisional" dog license
will be issued during a probationary period.
   (C)   After successful completion of the probationary period, the dog shall
be issued a current City dog license.
   (D)   Any violation of the probation terms set forth by the Hearing Officer
will result in immediate impoundment. The animal will be declared to be
dangerous or vicious and humanely destroyed no sooner than five (5) business
days after mailing a notice of violation of probation and impoundment. (Ord.
97-5, 8-18-1997)
6-2-38: PENALTIES FOR ANIMAL BITES AND ATTACKS:
   (A)   In any case wherein an animal attacks a human being or another animal,
then such act shall constitute a separate and distinct violation, and shall be
punishable as follows:
      1.   Any person whose animal attacks a human being without causing bodily
injury, or attacks another animal, shall be guilty of an infraction and shall
be punished upon a first conviction by a fine of one hundred dollars ($100.00)
and for a second conviction within a period of one year by a fine of two
hundred dollars ($200.00) and for a third or subsequent conviction within one
year, by a fine of three hundred dollars ($300.00).
      2.   Any person whose animal attacks a human being causing bodily injury
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished by a fine of not more
than five hundred dollars ($500.00) or by imprisonment in the County jail for
not more than six (6) months, or by both such fine and imprisonment.
      3.   After each attack or bite, the Animal Control Officer shall
determine whether a dog is dangerous or vicious pursuant to Section
6-2-32 of this Chapter. (Ord. 97-5, 8-18-1997)
6-2-39: PENALTIES:
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in Section
6-2-37 of this Chapter, any person violating any provision of this Chapter
shall be deemed guilty of an infraction and shall be subject to the following
fines:
      1.   Fifty dollars ($50.00) upon the first offense.
      2.   One hundred dollars ($100.00) upon the second offense in a twelve
(12) month period.
      3.   Two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) upon the third offense in a
twelve (12) month period.
If any violation is continued, each day's violation shall be deemed a separate
violation. Any person found guilty of more than three (3) violations of this
Chapter within a twelve (12) month period shall be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor and fined up to one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) or imprisoned for
a term not to exceed thirty (30) days for each misdemeanor conviction. The
person shall also pay any and all expenses, including shelter, food,
veterinarian expenses for identification or certification or boarding
associated with the seizure of the animal. (Ord. 97-5, 8-18-1997)
CHAPTER 3
APPOINTMENT OF ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER
SECTION:
6-3-1: Purpose
6-3-2: Authority Of Animal Control Officer
6-3-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to authorize a duly appointed animal control
officer that has been appointed by the Humane Society, Society For Prevention
Of Cruelty To Animals or public pound with which the city of Selma has a
contract for the impoundment, care and protection, and prevention of cruelty to
animals within the limits of the city of Selma to exercise all of the powers
and responsibilities and duties of an "animal control officer" as defined in
section
 6-2-1 of this title and, in connection therewith, to issue appropriate
citations in accordance with this code, including administrative citations and
the power to serve warrants as specified in sections 1523 and 1530 of the Penal
Code during the course and within the scope of the employment of the animal
control officer who has been certified as meeting the requirements of
Corporations Code section 14502 by the Humane Society, Society For Prevention
Of Cruelty To Animals and/or public pound which the city of Selma has
contracted to provide the same or similar services. (Ord. 2014-8, 9-2-2014)
6-3-2: AUTHORITY OF ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER:
   (A)   The Chief of Police for the City of Selma is the head animal control
officer for the City. The Chief of Police shall be responsible for delegating
all animal control duties, and no person shall perform animal control duties
within the City of Selma, unless authorized by the Chief of Police. Any person
serving as an animal control officer for the City, must be appointed by the
Chief of Police, and will be subject to control by the Chief of Police. If the
Chief of Police appoints an animal control officer, that person will be
authorized to perform all duties of an animal control officer, including
enforcement of all provisions of chapter 2 of this title; the power to serve
warrants as specified in Penal Code sections 1523 and 1530; and to issue
administrative citations for any violation of the provisions of chapter 2 of
this title.
   (B)   Further, all complaints of animal cruelty shall initially be
investigated by the Selma police department or an officer thereof and shall be
dealt with by the animal control officer in the manner prescribed by the police
department. Nothing in this chapter or section is intended to or shall affect
the authority of the chief of police of the city of Selma, or of any peace
officer employed by the city of Selma to enforce state and local animal control
laws and ordinances as deemed necessary by the chief of police or the peace
officer. (Ord. 2014-8, 9-2-2014; amd. Ord. 2023-7, 1-16-2024)
CHAPTER 4
DEADLY WEAPONS
SECTION:
6-4-1: Loitering While Carrying Concealed Weapon Prohibited
6-4-2: Sale, Transfer, or Possession of Deadly Weapons Prohibited
6-4-3: Firearms; Sale to Minors
6-4-4: Definitions
6-4-5: Discharge Unlawful, Exceptions
6-4-6: Possession of Firearms by Persons Under 18 Years of Age 6-4-7: Nuisances
6-4-1: LOITERING WHILE CARRYING CONCEALED WEAPON PROHIBITED:
   (A)   As used in this Section, but in no wise limited thereto, "Dangerous or
Deadly Weapon" shall mean any knife with a blade three inches (3") or more in
length; any spring-blade, switch-blade, or snap-blade knife or other similar
type knife; a knife any blade of which is automatically released by a spring
mechanism or other mechanical device; any ice pick, or similar sharp, stabbing
tool; any straight edge razor or any razor blade fitted to a handle; any
cutting, stabbing, bludgeoning weapon or device capable of inflicting grievous
bodily harm.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person, while carrying concealed upon his
person any dangerous or deadly weapon, to loaf or loiter upon any public
street, sidewalk, or alley, or to wander about from place to place, with no
lawful business thereby to perform, or to hide, lurk or loiter upon or about
the premises of another.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person who has concealed upon his person
or who has in his immediate physical possession any dangerous or deadly weapon
to engage in any fight or to participate in any other rough or disorderly
conduct upon any public place or way or upon the premises of another.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any person who has concealed upon his person
any dangerous or deadly weapon to loiter about any place where intoxicating
liquors are sold or any other place of public resort.
   (E)   The foregoing restrictions shall not be deemed to prohibit the
carrying of ordinary tools or equipment carried in good faith for uses of
honest work, trade or business or for the purpose of legitimate recreation.
6-4-2: SALE, TRANSFER, OR POSSESSION OF DEADLY WEAPONS PROHIBITED:
Notwithstanding any provision in this Chapter to the contrary, no person shall
sell, offer for sale, expose for sale, keep, carry, possess, loan, transfer or
give to any other person, any spring-blade, switch-blade, snap-blade knife, or
other similar type knife or any knife any blade of which is automatically
released by a spring mechanism or other mechanical device. (Ord. 492; 12-17-56)
6-4-3: FIREARMS; SALE TO MINORS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to sell or give to any minor under the age
of eighteen (18) years, any revolver or pistol of any kind from or by means of
which any bullet, shot or other missile of any kind may be fired or projected
by means of percussion caps, cartridges or any explosive substances whatever. 1
 
Notes
1 1. For Statute authority see Pen. C., Sec. 12001-12021.
6-4-4: DEFINITIONS:
The word "Firearm" as used in Sections
6-4-5,
6-4-6 and
6-4-7, shall mean any gun, rifle, shotgun, air gun, B-B gun, pellet gun,
crossbow, bow and arrow, tube,launcher, sling, or any other instrument used for
discharging projectiles capable of doing bodily harm.
6-4-5: DISCHARGE UNLAWFUL, EXCEPTIONS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to fire or discharge a firearm within the
City limits of the City of Selma, except in the case of (a) a public officer or
member of the armed forces in the lawful discharge of his duties, or (b) a
person necessarily acting in the lawful defense of person or property, or (c) a
shooting gallery, practice range, or skeet field conducted at a fixed location
and with adequate safeguards, for which a permit has been issued by the Chief
of Police, or (d) a pistol for shooting blank cartridges when used as a
starting gun for athletic contests or as a stage property for a dramatic
production, or (f) a construction gun, rivet gun or "driveit" gun, or (g) in
connection with a parade or other military ceremonial events, and the like.
6-4-6: POSSESSION OF FIREARMS BY PERSONS UNDER 18 YEARS OF AGE:
It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of eighteen (18) years to
have a firearm in his possession within the City limits of the City of Selma at
anytime, except when (a) he is in the company of one of his parents, or (b)
within the walls of his home, or (c) he is handling merchandise in the course
of services of a carrier or the post office or a licensed retail merchant, or
(d) in connection with starting guns, he is acting as an equipment athletic
manager or starter in an athletic contest, or (e) in connection with stage
properties for dramatic productions, or (f) in connection with a drill,
demonstration, or parade under the jurisdiction and control of a public school
or a branch or reserve force of the armed forces of the State of California or
the United States, or (g) in connection with a shooting gallery, practice
range, training school, or skeet field conducted at a fixed location and with
adequate safeguards, for which a permit has been issued by the Chief of Police,
and under the control of qualified supervisors or instructors approved by the
Chief of Police, or (h) when he is in the company of a police officer, or
qualified supervisor or instructor approved by the Chief of Police.
6-4-7: NUISANCES:
Any firearm that has been discharged unlawfully or possessed unlawfully, as
provided in Sections
6-4-5 and
 6-4-6 hereinabove, is hereby declared to be a public nuisance, and any police
officer of the City of Selma is empowered to seize the same and remove it from
the possession of the owner or possessor thereof, and upon the order of the
Chief of Police, the same shall be destroyed. (Ord. 727; 2-18-75)
CHAPTER 5
PICKETING
SECTION:
6-5-1: Unlawful Picketing or Harassment
6-5-1: UNLAWFUL PICKETING OR HARASSMENT:
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to watch, beset or picket the
premises of another where any person is employed or any approach thereto, or
any place where such employee lodges or resides, or any approach thereto for
the purpose of inducing any such employee, by compulsion, threats, coercion,
intimidation, or by any act of violence, or by putting the employee in fear, to
quit his employment or to refrain from seeking or freely entering into
employment.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to watch, beset, or picket the
premises of another, or any approach thereto, for the purpose of inducing
others to refrain from entering the premises, or from patronizing, transacting
business within or negotiating with the owner or occupant of the premises.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person, in association or agreement with
one (1) or more persons, to assemble, congregate, or meet together in the
vicinity of any premises where other persons are employed or upon the streets,
approaches or places adjacent thereto, for the purpose of inducing any such
employee, by compulsion, threats, coercion, intimidation, or by any act of
violence, or by putting the employee in fear, to quit his employment therein,
or to refrain from seeking or freely entering into employment therein.
   (D)   It shall, be unlawful for any person, in association or agreement with
one (1) or more persons, to assemble, congregate, or meet together in the
vicinity of the premises of another, or upon the streets, approaches, or places
adjacent thereto, for the purpose of inducing others to refrain from entering
the premise or from patronizing, transacting business with, or negotiating with
the owner or occupant of the premises.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful for any person to utter to, or within the hearing
of, another, any derogatory, profane, indecent, opprobrious epithets or
language, or to use any gesture, or to make demonstrations of any kind, for the
purpose of inducing any persons, by means of compulsion, coercion,
intimidation, threats, acts of violence, or fear, to quit his employment, or to
refrain from seeking or freely entering into employment, or to refrain from
patronizing, negotiating with or transacting business, with any other person.
   (F)   It shall be unlawful for any person to form or to aid in forming, or
to ride in, any parade, or procession of two (2) or more vehicles formed or
moving along the public streets for the purpose of inducing any person, by
means of compulsion, coercion, intimidation or fear from entering into, or
carrying on his employment, upon or about any place of business, packing shed,
dwelling or any other premises or place of employment.
   (G)   It shall be unlawful for any person to loiter, stand or sit upon any
public street, alley, sidewalk or crosswalk so as to in any manner hinder or
obstruct the free passage therein or thereon of persons or vehicles passing or
attempting to pass along or over the same, or so as to in any way or manner
annoy or molest persons passing along or over the same. (Ord. 306, 7-12-37)
CHAPTER 6
CURFEW
SECTION:
6-6-1: Curfew for Minors
6-6-2: Responsibility of Parents
6-6-1: CURFEW FOR MINORS:
   (A)   No person under the age of eighteen (18) years shall loiter, idle,
wander, stroll or play in or upon the public streets, highways, roads, alleys,
parks, playgrounds or other public grounds, public places and public buildings,
places of amusement and eating places, vacant lots or any unsupervised place
between the hours of ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. and five o'clock (5:00) A.M. of
the following day. The provisions of this Section do not apply when the minor
is accompanied by his or her parent, guardian or other adult person having the
care and custody of the minor, or when the minor is upon an emergency errand
directed by his or her parent, guardian or other adult person having the care
and custody of the minor, or when the minor is returning directly home from a
meeting, entertainment, recreational activity, dance or when the person is
going directly to or returning directly from work.
   (B)   Any minor under the age of eighteen (18) years found in violation of
this Chapter shall be immediately apprehended and taken to the proper detention
place or parental pickup station for minors and there detained until the
arrival of the parent, guardian or proper person to care for said minor. (Ord.
94-4, 4-4-94)
6-6-2: RESPONSIBILITY OF PARENTS:
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any parent, guardian or other adult person
having the care and custody of the minor to permit the minor to loiter, idle,
wander, stroll or play in or upon the public streets, highways, roads, alleys,
parks, playgrounds, or other public grounds, public places and public
buildings, places of amusement and eating places, vacant lots or any
unsupervised place between the hours of ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. and five
o'clock (5:00) A.M. of the following day unless the minor is lawfully upon the
streets or places as permitted by the preceding Section of this Chapter.
   (B)   Every parent, guardian or other person having the legal care, custody
or control of any person under the age of eighteen (18) years who permits such
person to violate the provisions of this Chapter is guilty of a misdemeanor.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any parent, guardian or person having a minor
in his or her charge, after receiving notice of the apprehension, arrest or
detention of said minor, to fail or neglect to go in person or send some
suitable person after said minor so detained.
   (D)   Every parent, guardian or other having the legal care, custody or
control of any person under the age of eighteen (18) who is convicted of
violating this Chapter shall be liable for the expense of a police response and
the cost of transporting the minor to a parental pickup station. The expense of
police response shall include, but will not be limited to, the costs of
providing police, firefighting, rescue and emergency medical services at the
scene of the incident, as well as the salaries of the personnel responding to
the incident. (Ord. 94-4, 4-4-94)
CHAPTER 7
UNCLAIMED PROPERTY
SECTION:
6-7-1: Auction by Chief of Police
6-7-2: Property to be Held Six Months
6-7-3: Notice of Auction
6-7-4: Disposition of Receipts
6-7-5: Disposal of Unsold Property
6-7-1: AUCTION BY CHIEF OF POLICE:
The Chief of Police shall from time to time hold a public auction at which lost
or unclaimed property in the possession of the City may be sold to the highest
bidder.
6-7-2: PROPERTY TO BE HELD SIX MONTHS:
Only those articles or items of lost or unclaimed property of which the City
has had possession for a period of not less than six (6) months shall be sold
at public auction.
6-7-3: NOTICE OF AUCTION:
The Chief of Police shall give notice of the holding of a public auction by one
(1) publication of a notice thereof, at least five (5) days before the time
fixed therefor, in a newspaper of general circulation in the City.
6-7-4: DISPOSITION OF RECEIPTS:
All funds realized at such public auction shall be delivered with an accounting
thereof to the Treasurer who shall then deposit the funds in the General Fund
of the City.
6-7-5: DISPOSAL OF UNSOLD PROPERTY:
Any item or article of lost or unclaimed property upon which no bid was made at
public auction may be given away or destroyed at the option of the Chief of
Police. (1963 Code)
CHAPTER 8
ABANDONED CONTAINERS
SECTION:
6-8-1: Unlawful Act
6-8-1: UNLAWFUL ACT:
It shall be unlawful for any person to leave or permit to remain outside of any
dwelling, building or other structure, or within any unoccupied or abandoned
building, structure or dwelling under his control, in a place accessible to
children, any abandoned or discarded ice box, refrigerator or other container
which has a door or lid, snaplock or other locking device which may not be
released from the inside, without first removing said door or lid, snap lock or
other locking device. 1
(1963 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. For Statute authority see Pen. C., Sec. 402b.
CHAPTER 9
PLASTIC BAGS OR COVERINGS
SECTION:
6-9-1: Definition
6-9-2: Warning Required
6-9-3: Certain Bags a Nuisance
6-9-1: DEFINITION:
The words "plastic coverings", "plastic pag", or "plastic package" when used in
this Chapter shall mean any covering, package or bag made of plastic material
sufficiently thin and pliable to respond to static electricity created by
contact with the human body to the extent that it clings to the human skin or
body. (1963 Code)
6-9-2: WARNING REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to have in his possession, or to deliver as
a cover or wrapper, any plastic bag that is of sufficient size to fit over a
child's head, or any bag which, when open has an opening larger than twenty
five (25) square inches or a capacity of more than one hundred twenty five
(125) cubic inches, unless there is at all times clearly printed on such bag or
covering, or on a paper attached to such bag or covering, words in letters at
least one-fourth inch (1/4") high as follows:
   WARNING:   To avoid danger of suffocation keep this bag (or covering) away
from babies and children. Do not use in cribs, beds, carriages or play pens.
This is not a toy.
(1963 Code)
6-9-3: CERTAIN BAGS A NUISANCE:
Any plastic bag, covering or package not carrying or accompanied by the printed
warning as provided in Section
 6-9-2 of this Chapter is hereby declared a nuisance. (1963 Code)
CHAPTER 10
PUBLIC DANCES
SECTION:
6-10-1: Definition
6-10-2: Permit Required
6-10-3: Unlawful to Assist at Unlicensed Dance
6-10-4: Obscene Dances
6-10-1: DEFINITION:
For the purpose of this Chapter the term "public dance" shall mean any dance or
ball to which the general public is admitted and shall include, but is not
limited to any live performance by a musician, including a live performance by
a singer. In the case of societies or clubs the term shall mean any dance or
ball to which persons are admitted other than bona fide members of the society
or club. (Ord.93-2, 3-1-93)
6-10-2: PERMIT REQUIRED:
It is hereby declared to be unlawful for any person in control of any room,
place or hall situated within the City to conduct, engage in or permit a public
dance in such place, room or hall without a permit so to do from the Chief of
Police.
   (A)   The Chief of Police shall establish rules and regulations concerning
the granting of a permit for a public dance. Those rules shall be consistent
with the provisions of this Chapter, including but not limited to each of the
following:
      1.   No permit shall be issued for a public dance to be held on property
upon which a public dance has already been held within the preceding ninety
(90) days, if both of the following conditions apply:
         (a)   
         (b)   
      2.   While a permit shall be required for a public dance which is
conducted by an organization described in subsection
5-7-3(H), for the purposes described and, which is described in that subsection
and which would otherwise require such a permit, the fee for obtaining a public
dance permit by such entity for such an activity shall be waived.
      3.   The circumstances under which private security will be required to
be provided as a condition to the issuance of a permit for a public dance.
   (B)   Said applicant shall comply with all fire, zoning and police
regulations of said City. If the property upon which the public dance is to be
held is subject to a conditional use permit, then the applicant shall comply
with applicable conditions set forth in the conditional use permit, if any, in
holding said public dance. Notwithstanding the foregoing or any other provision
of this Chapter, it shall not be necessary for a public dance permit to be
obtained in order to hold a public dance under any of the following
circumstances:
      1.   If the public dance is sponsored by and held on the property of a
church, mosque, temple, synagogue or other place of worship; or
      2.   If the public dance is sponsored by and held on the property of a
public or private school for minor children; or
      3.   If the public dance is upon property which meets both of the
following requirements:
         (a)   
         (b)   
   (C)   Should any proposed holder of such a permit for a public dance or
holder of such a permit wish to appeal the ruling of the Chief of Police
regarding the granting of a permit or revocation of a permit or of enforcing
any of the rules established by the Chief of Police, said person may appeal to
the Council by giving written notice of said appeal to the Clerk setting forth
therein the reasons for said appeal, and the Clerk shall thereupon set the
matter for hearing before the Council, and the decision of the Council in said
matter shall be final. (Ord. 93-2, 3-1-93)
6-10-3: UNLAWFUL TO ASSIST AT UNLICENSED DANCE:
No person shall act as floor manager, doorkeeper or in any official capacity at
any public dance or hall unless a permit has been procured from the Chief of
Police as herein provided. (1963 Code)
6-10-4: OBSCENE DANCES:
It shall be unlawful for any person to dance in an obscene or vulgar manner or
for any person holding a permit to conduct a public dance to allow any obscene
or vulgar dance to be performed. (1963 Code)
CHAPTER 11
USE OF PUBLIC FLAG POLES AND STAFFS
SECTION:
6-11-1: Misuse Unlawful
6-11-2: Exception
6-11-1: MISUSE UNLAWFUL:
It shall be unlawful for any person to raise or display any flag, banner,
standard, device, emblem or other article except the flag of the United States
of America or the official bear flag of the State of California upon or from
any flag pole or staff designed and intended for the display of the flag of the
United States of America or the official bear flag of the State of California
and located upon any public grounds or within any public buildings belonging to
or in the possession of the United States of America, the State of California,
the County of Fresno, City of Selma, or any public district or agency.
6-11-2: EXCEPTION:
The prohibition of Section
 6-11-1 shall not apply to those ceremonial occasions when the flag or other
colors of a friendly foreign power, the United Nations, any other state of the
United States, or the official flag or colors of any military organization of
the United States or the State of California, are displayed with the
authorization of the public agency owning or in possession of the flag pole or
staff involved and in strict accordance with the laws or regulations of this
State, the United States of America or any department or agency thereof
relating thereto. (Ord. 683; 4-5-71; Eff. 5-5-71)
CHAPTER 12
BINGO
SECTION:
6-12-1: Intent and Purpose
6-12-2: Definitions
6-12-3: Bingo Permitted
6-12-4: Permit Application
6-12-5: Content of Application
6-12-6: Consent to Investigation
6-12-7: Reference of Application
6-12-8: Investigation by Chief of Police
6-12-9: Investigation by Planning and Building Inspectors
6-12-10: Investigation by Fire Chief
6-12-11: Denial of Permit
6-12-12: Appeal
6-12-13: Issuance of Permit
6-12-14: Posting of Permit
6-12-15: Permit Nontransferable
6-12-16: Conditions of Operation
6-12-17: Operators
6-12-18: Ownership of Equipment
6-12-19: Financial Interest
6-12-20: Special Fund Required
6-12-21: Records
6-12-22: Quarterly Report
6-12-23: Changes in Conditions During Permit Period
6-12-24: Restrictions on Time for Conducting Bingo Games
6-12-25: Suspension or Revocation
6-12-26: Renewal
6-12-1: INTENT AND PURPOSE:
It is the purpose and intent of this Chapter to authorize the playing of the
game of chance generally known as "bingo" subject to and pursuant to the
restrictions contained in Article IV, Section 19c of the Constitution of the
State of California and Section 326.5 of the Penal Code of the State of
California. Definitions, conditions and restrictions set forth in the Chapter
are intended to comply with and implement the Constitutional and Penal Code
provisions. To the extent that any provision of the Chapter is substantially
the same as that contained in Section 326.5 of the Penal Code and violation
thereof be deemed a violation of the Penal Code and punishable hereunder, such
provision of this Chapter shall be deemed explanatory only.
6-12-2: DEFINITIONS:
   BINGO: A game of chance in which prizes are awarded on the basis of
designated numbers or symbols on a card which conform to numbers or symbols
selected at random.
   CITY CLERK, CHIEF OF POLICE, PLANNING AND BUILDING INSPECTOR or FIRE CHIEF:
The City Clerk, Chief of Police, Planning and Building Inspector or Fire Chief
of the City or their respective authorized agents.
   NONPROFIT ORGANIZATION: Any tax-exempt organization or senior citizens
organization as such terms are defined in this Section.
   SENIOR CITIZEN: Any person of age sixty (60) or older or any person age
fifty (50) or older who no longer engages in full-time employment.
   SENIOR CITIZENS ORGANIZATIONS: Any organization meeting the following
criteria:
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of the organization is to improve the social,
recreational, economic, medical and/or housing conditions of senior citizens.
   (B)   Membership. The membership in the organization shall be limited to
senior citizens and their spouses.
   (C)   Formal Organization. The organization shall have a duly adopted
constitution or by-laws stating the purpose of the organization and the
qualifications of membership and providing for the election of officers.
   TAX-EXEMPT ORGANIZATION: Any organization exempted from the payment of bank
or corporation taxes by Section 23701b (fraternal beneficiary societies, orders
or organizations) or Section 23701d (religious, charitable, scientific,
literary, educational and humanitarian corporations) of the California Revenue
and Taxation Code.
6-12-3: BINGO PERMITTED:
A nonprofit organization having in effect a permit therefor from the City Clerk
pursuant to the provisions of this Chapter may conduct a bingo game for
charitable purposes subject to all conditions and restrictions contained in
Section 326.5 of the California Penal Code and this Chapter. (Ord. 789, 6-5-78)
6-12-4: PERMIT APPLICATION:
A nonprofit organization may apply to the City Clerk for a permit to conduct a
bingo game. Each such organization must have its principal and permanent
meeting place in the corporation limits of the City; must maintain a bonafide
membership of at least twenty (20) members; and, must have been organized and
established in the City's corporate limits for a minimum of one year
continuously preceding the filing of the application for the permit. The
application shall be upon a form provided therefor by the City Clerk and shall
be accompanied by a fee equal to the actual cost of issuing such permit as may
be determined from time to time by the City Council. Notwithstanding the actual
cost of issuing such permit, the fee shall not exceed fifty dollars ($50.00),
unless a higher maximum fee is authorized by law. If the applicant is a tax-
exempt organization, it shall accompany the application with a certificate or
letter from the State Franchise Tax Board stating that the applicant is exempt
from the payment of the bank or corporation taxes. If the applicant is a senior
citizens organization, it shall provide proof to the satisfaction of the City
Clerk that it satisfies the criteria for a "senior citizens organization" as
set forth in Section
 6-12-2. Such proof may include but is not limited to a copy of the
organization's constitution and/or by laws.
No organization may receive more than one permit at any one time. One permit
may be issued to two (2) or more qualifying applicants as a joint venture.
(Ord. 869, 7-2-84)
6-12-5: CONTENT OF APPLICATION:
   (A)   The application for a permit for conducting bingo games shall contain
the following:
      1.   The name of the organization proposing to conduct such games
together with the names, signatures and addresses of all the officers of the
organization;
      2.   The address of the premises where the bingo games are proposed to be
conducted;
      3.   The names of the owner(s) and, if any, lessee(s) of the premises
where the bingo games are proposed to be conducted;
      4.   The principal purpose for which the premises are used by the
organization together with the length of time for which the premises have been
so used;
      5.   The name and address of the person responsible for the operation of
the bingo game and name and address of those persons assisting therein;
      6.   The day and hours of proposed operation of bingo games; and
      7.   Such further information as may be required by the City Clerk.
   (B)   Said application shall be signed by a principal officer of the
applicant under penalty of perjury.
6-12-6: CONSENT TO INVESTIGATION:
The filing of an application for a permit shall be deemed a consent by the
applicant for the Chief of Police to make an investigation to determine if all
the statements on the application are true, to investigate the officers of the
applicant and the person who will be responsible for the operation of the bingo
games and those persons who will assist therein as to any criminal record which
they may have, and to disclose such information to the City Clerk and, upon
appeal, to the Council. The application shall also be deemed consent for the
Fire Chief and the Planning and Building Inspector to inspect said premises and
report thereon.
6-12-7: REFERENCE OF APPLICATION:
Immediately upon receipt of a proper application, the City Clerk shall furnish
copies thereof to the Chief of Police, Planning and Building Inspector and the
Fire Chief, each of whom shall make an investigation as specified in this
Chapter and report back to the City Clerk within forty five (45) calendar days
after the receipt by the City Clerk of such application with a recommendation
thereon. Failure of the Chief of Police, Planning and Building Inspector or
Fire Chief to report back to the City Clerk within the forty five (45) day
period shall be treated by the City Clerk as a recommendation to issue the
permit.
6-12-8: INVESTIGATION BY CHIEF OF POLICE:
The Chief of Police shall determine if all the statements on the application
are true and shall obtain the criminal record, if any, of the principal
officers of the organization, each person who will be responsible for the
operation of the bingo game and those persons who will assist therein. He shall
recommend the issuance of the permit, except:
   (A)   In the event that he finds any of the statements on the application to
be false, he may recommend against its issuance; and
   (B)   In the event that he finds any officer of the organization or any
person who will be responsible for the operation of the bingo game or any
person who will assist therein to have been convicted within the last ten (10)
years of crimes involving lotteries, gambling, larceny, perjury, bribery,
extortion or fraud, he shall recommend against its issuance.
6-12-9: INVESTIGATION BY THE PLANNING AND BUILDING INSPECTOR:
The Planning and Building Inspector shall investigate the premises and
surroundings for the safety of the structure, adequacy of parking facilities
and any other condition which, in the opinion of the Inspector might endanger
the public health, safety or well-being or constitute a nuisance. Should he
find that such a potential danger or nuisance exists, the Inspector may at his
discretion recommend denial of the permit or the attachment thereto of such
conditions as will in his opinion adequately protect the public health, safety
and well-being and preclude the existence of a nuisance; otherwise he shall
recommend its issuance.
6-12-10: INVESTIGATION BY FIRE CHIEF:
The Fire Chief shall investigate the premises as to the safety of the structure
and for fire hazards and shall determine the maximum number of persons who may
be present in the premises during the conducting of bingo games. In the event
he finds any condition to exist which might endanger the public health, safety
or well-being from the standpoint of structural safety or fire danger, he may
recommend against the issuance of the permit or recommend the attachment
thereto of such conditions as will in his opinion adequately safeguard the
public health, safety and well-being; otherwise he shall recommend its
issuance.
6-12-11: DENIAL OF PERMIT:
In the event the Chief of Police, Planning and Building Inspector or Fire Chief
recommends against the issuance of the permit, the City Clerk shall refuse to
issue such permit and one-half (1/2) of any permit fee paid shall be refunded
to the organization that filed the application.
6-12-12: APPEAL:
   (A)   Any applicant or permittee may appeal to the City Council from any
order or action of the City Clerk respecting the issuance, denial,
modification, suspension or revocation of any permit.
6-12-13: ISSUANCE OF PERMIT:
In the event the City Clerk does not receive a recommendation against the
issuance of the permit, he shall issue the same for a period of one year, which
permit shall contain the following information:
   (A)   The name and nature of the organization to whom the permit is issued;
   (B)   The address where the bingo games are authorized to be conducted;
   (C)   The maximum occupancy of the room in which the bingo games are to be
conducted;
   (D)   The date of the commencement of the permit;
   (E)   The date of the expiration of the permit;
   (F)   The days and hours during which bingo may be conducted; and
   (G)   Such conditions as may have been recommended by the City Clerk, Chief
of Police, Planning and Building Inspector or Fire Chief.
6-12-14: POSTING OF PERMIT:
A permittee shall keep the permit posted in a conspicuous place within the room
in which bingo is being played during the conduct of any such game. The
permittee shall produce and exhibit the same whenever requested to do so by the
City Clerk, Chief of Police, Planning and Building Inspector or Fire Chief.
6-12-15: PERMIT NONTRANSFERABLE:
Any permit granted under this Chapter shall not be transferable either as to
the permittee or the location. Any use of the permit other than by the named
permittee or other than at the address where the bingo games are authorized to
be conducted shall render the permit invalid.
6-12-16: CONDITIONS OF OPERATION:
It is unlawful for any bingo game to be operated in violation of any of the
following conditions:
   (A)   All bingo games shall be open to the public, not just to the members
of the nonprofit organization;
   (B)   No person shall be allowed to participate in a bingo game, unless the
person is physically present at the time and place in which the bingo game is
being conducted; (Ord. 789, 6-5-78)
   (C)   The total value of prizes awarded during the conduct of any bingo
games shall not exceed two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) in cash or kind, or
both, for each separate game which is held. (Ord. 841, 5-17-82)
   (D)   Attendance at any bingo game shall be limited to the occupancy
capacity of the room as set forth in the permit;
   (E)   No permittee shall issue chips or money to a patron on credit or a
loan, including but not limited to IOU's and checks to be held, nor shall
patrons be allowed to play on credit;
   (F)   No person who is obviously intoxicated shall be allowed to participate
in a bingo game; (Ord. 789, 6-5-78)
   (G)   No permittee shall conduct any bingo game except between the hours of
twelve noon and twelve midnight, nor shall any permittee conduct bingo games
for more than six (6) hours during any twenty four (24) hour period, nor shall
any permittee conduct bingo games more than ten (10) days in any one month.
(Ord. 841, 5-17-82)
   (H)   No person shall violate any condition attached to the permit;
   (I)   The permittee shall post and keep posted in a conspicuous place within
the room in which bingo is being played the rules and regulations of said game;
   (J)   No person shall conduct any bingo game after the permit therefor has
expired or during any period which it is suspended;
   (K)   The permittee shall conduct a bingo game only on property owned or
leased by it, and which property is used by such organization for an office or
for performance of the purposes for which the organization is organized.
Nothing in this subsection shall be construed to require that the property
owned or leased by the organization be used or leased exclusively by such
organization.
   (L)   The permittee shall keep a written record of the name, address, phone
number and date of birth of each person receiving a prize, valued at more than
ten dollars ($10.00), for three (3) years, which records shall be made
available to the Chief of Police upon request.
6-12-17: OPERATORS:
Any bingo game shall be operated and staffed only by members of the permittee.
Such members shall not receive a profit, wage or salary from any bingo game.
Only the permittee shall operate such game or participate in the promotion,
advertising, supervision, or other phase of the game, and no wage, salary or
other payment may be made on account thereof from funds received from such
games.
6-12-18: OWNERSHIP OF EQUIPMENT:
All equipment used by the permittee in conducting the bingo game shall be owned
by the permittee.
6-12-19: FINANCIAL INTEREST:
No individual, corporation, partnership or other legal entity except the
permittee authorized to conduct the bingo game shall have or hold a financial
interest in the conduct of such bingo game or the proceeds therefrom.
6-12-20: SPECIAL FUND REQUIRED:
With respect to organizations exempt from payment of bank or corporation taxes
by Section 23701d of the Revenue and Taxation Code, all profits derived from a
bingo game shall be kept in a special fund or account and shall not be
commingled with any other fund or account. Such profits shall be used only for
charitable purposes. With respect to other organizations authorized to conduct
bingo games pursuant to this Chapter, all proceeds derived from a bingo game
shall be kept in a special fund or account and shall not be commingled with any
other fund or account. Such proceeds shall be used only for charitable
purposes, except as follows:
   (A)   Such proceeds may be used for prizes.
   (B)   A portion of such proceeds, not to exceed ten percent (10%) of the
proceeds after the deduction for prizes, or five hundred dollars ($500.00) per
month, whichever is less, may be used for rental of property, overhead, and
administrative expenses.
6-12-21: RECORDS:
Each permittee conducting a bingo game shall maintain detailed records of all
proceeds, profits, expenditures, prizes and other expenses relating to the
operation of the bingo game. Such records shall be retained for a period of
three (3) years and as long thereafter as may be required by any State or
Federal law. Such records, including related bank accounts, shall be open for
inspection at any time by the Chief of Police, City Clerk or any State or
Federal official in the performance of his duties.
6-12-22: QUARTERLY REPORT:
Within fifteen (15) days after March 31, June 30, September 30 and December 31
during the permit period, the permittee shall file a report under the penalty
of perjury with the City Clerk containing the following information:
   (A)   Any changes in or additions to the information required in the
application;
   (B)   The total amount of money received from the operation of bingo games
during the previous three (3) month period;
   (C)   The total amount paid out in prizes;
   (D)   Detailed costs to the permittee of the operation of the bingo games;
and
   (E)   All disbursements from the fund.
6-12-23: CHANGES IN CONDITIONS DURING PERMIT PERIOD:
Any change during the permit period in the organization of the permittee, its
principal officers, the staff operating or assisting in the operation of the
bingo game, or the condition of the premises shall be immediately reported to
the City Clerk who shall refer such changes to the appropriate official who
shall make an investigation thereof and, if he deems appropriate, recommend the
suspension and revocation of the permit or the imposition of additional
conditions thereto, which suspension, revocation, or additional conditions
shall be appealable to the City Council.
6-12-24: RESTRICTIONS ON TIME FOR CONDUCTING BINGO GAMES:
Any permit issued under this Chapter may be modified to further restrict the
time for conducting bingo games as set forth in subsection (G) of Section
6-12-16 by the City Clerk upon the Clerk's own recommendation or upon the
recommendation of the Chief of Police, the Planning and Building Inspector or
the Fire Chief, which recommendation must be based upon good cause. The
modified permit shall have the same force and effect as a new permit. Such
modification shall take effect and shall result in the automatic revocation of
the prior permit fifteen days after the notice thereof unless the permittee
appeals the modification to the City Council. The original permit shall remain
in effect pending decision by the Council.
6-12-25: SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION:
Any permit issued under this Chapter shall be immediately suspended by the City
Clerk upon the Clerk's own recommendation or upon the recommendation of the
Chief of Police, the Planning and Building Inspector or the Fire Chief, based
upon either a violation of this Chapter by the permittee or its agent or the
discovery of some condition which would have been grounds for denial of the
permit application. Such suspension shall result in the automatic revocation of
the permit fifteen (15) days after the notice thereof unless the permittee
appeals the suspension and revocation to the City Council. The suspension shall
remain in effect pending decision by the Council.
6-12-26: RENEWAL:
A permittee desiring to continue conducting a bingo game shall at least forty
five (45) calendar days before the expiration of the permit make application to
the City Clerk for a renewal. The application for renewal shall be accompanied
by the same fee and proofs and shall be processed in all respects as an
original application. (Ord. 789, 6-5-78)
CHAPTER 13
PARADE REGULATIONS
SECTION:
6-13-1: Definitions
6-13-2: Permit Required
6-13-3: Permit, Issuance of
6-13-4: Notice of Revocation of Permit; Appeals
6-13-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this Article, the following term is defined:
   PARADE: Any march or procession consisting of persons, animals or vehicles,
or combination thereof, except funeral processions, upon any public street,
sidewalk, alley or other public place, which does not comply with normal and
usual traffic regulation or controls.
6-13-2: PERMIT REQUIRED:
No person shall conduct, manage or participate in any parade without a written
permit from the Chief of Police. "Persons" shall include corporation or
association. All applications for permits shall be filed with the Chief of
Police at least ten (10) days prior to the proposed date.
6-13-3: PERMIT, ISSUANCE OF:
   (A)   No permit shall be issued authorizing the conduct of a parade which
the Chief of Police finds is proposed to be held for the sole purpose of
advertising any product, goods, wares, merchandise, or event, and is designed
to be held purely for private profit.
   (B)   The Chief of Police shall issue the permit if he finds that:
      1.   The conduct of such parade will not substantially interrupt the safe
and orderly movement of other traffic contiguous to its route;
      2.   The conduct of such parade will not require the diversion of so
great a number of police officers of the City to properly police the line of
movement and the areas contiguous thereto, as to prevent normal police
protection to the City;
      3.   The conduct of such parade will not interfere with the movement of
fire-fighting equipment en route to a fire;
      4.   The conduct of such parade is not reasonably likely to cause injury
to persons or property; to provoke disorderly conduct or create a disturbance;
      5.   The concentration of persons, animals and vehicles at assembly
points of the parade will not unduly interfere with proper fire and police
protection of, or ambulance service to, areas contiguous to such assembly
areas; and
      6.   Such parade shall move from its point of origin to its point of
termination expeditiously and without stopping en route.
      7.   The applicant has executed and filed with the Chief of Police a
written guarantee to save the City harmless from all liability and/or damage as
a result of granting the permit.
   (C)   Contents of Permit:
      1.   Date.
      2.   Organization applying for.
      3.   Event.
      4.   Route.
      5.   Starting time.
6-13-4: NOTICE OF REVOCATION OF PERMIT; APPEALS:
The Chief of Police shall act upon the application for a parade permit within
five (5) days after filing thereof. If the Chief of Police disapproves the
application, he shall send by certified mail or personally deliver to the
applicant within five (5) days after the date upon which the application was
filed a notice of his action stating the reasons for his denial of the permit.
Any person aggrieved shall have the right to appeal the denial of a parade
permit to the City Council by filing a written notice thereof with the City
Clerk within five (5) days of the notice of such action. The decision of the
Council after a hearing on such appeal shall be final. (Ord. 808, 11-5-79)
CHAPTER 14
CRIMES AGAINST PRIVATE PROPERTY
(Rep. by Ord. 97-5, 8-18-1997)
CHAPTER 15
POLICE DEPARTMENT CANINE UNITS
SECTION:
6-15-1: Unlawful to Interfere with Canine Units
6-15-1: UNLAWFUL TO INTERFERE WITH CANINE UNITS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to wilfully or maliciously by any means,
torture, tease, torment, beat, kick, strike, mutilate, injure, disable, or kill
any dog used by the City Police Department while any such dog is in the
performance of the functions or duties of the Police Department or to wilfully
interfere with any such dog while it is being used in the performance of any of
the functions or duties of the Department. (Ord. 823, 5-4-81)
CHAPTER 16
POOL HALLS
SECTION:
6-16-1: Pool Hall Regulations
6-16-1: POOL HALL REGULATIONS:
The place where the billiard, bagatelle or pool table(s) are kept, shall be, at
all times, quiet and orderly. No person(s) under the age of fifteen (15) years
shall be permitted to engage in any game of any kind therein, or to be in such
place unless accompanied by a parent or guardian; that all entrance doors
containing glass are so constructed that they afford persons outside the place
a clear and unobstructed view of the interior of the place and the business
therein conducted at all hours of the day and night, both when the same is open
for business and when closed, and that no curtain, screen, ground glass or
frosted glass, blinds, shutters, partition, or any obstruction shall at any
time be permitted or maintained in any room or part of the building used for
the business of the aforesaid, which shall in any manner obstruct or interfere
with such view; and that the person(s) in charge of each business shall not
permit any person(s) under the age of eighteen (18) years to remain in said
business after ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. of any day; and that the place shall be
closed at the hour of twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight of each day; and that no
business or games shall be conducted therein during the hours while closed.
(Ord. 835, 12-21-81)
CHAPTER 17
NOISE REGULATIONS
SECTION:
6-17-1: Title
6-17-2: Definitions
6-17-3: Decibel Measurement Criteria
6-17-4: Monitoring Procedures
6-17-5: Excessive Noise Prohibited
6-17-6: Prima Facie Violation
6-17-7: Schools, Hospitals And Churches
6-17-8: Public Address Systems
6-17-9: Exceptions
6-17-10: Permits
6-17-11: Penalty (Rep. by Ord. 2001-8, 11-19-2001)
6-17-12: Injunction
6-17-1: TITLE:
This chapter shall be known as the NOISE ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF SELMA. (Ord.
840, 4-19-1982)
6-17-2: DEFINITIONS:
Unless the particular provisions or the context requires, the definitions and
provisions contained in this section shall govern the construction, meaning and
application of words and phrases used in this chapter, and except to the extent
that a particular word or phrase is otherwise specifically defined in this
section, the definitions and provisions contained in title I, chapter 3 of this
code shall also govern the construction, meaning and application of words and
phrases used in this chapter. The definition of each word or phrase shall
constitute, to the extent applicable, the definition of each word or phrase
which is derivative from it, or from which it is a derivative, as the case may
be.
   AMBIENT NOISE: The all encompassing noise associated with a given
environment, being usually a composite of sounds from many sources near and
far. For the purpose of this chapter, "ambient noise level" is the level
obtained when the noise level is averaged over a period of fifteen (15)
minutes, without inclusion of the offending noise, at the location and time of
day at which a comparison with the offending noise is to be made. Where the
ambient noise level is less than that designated in this section, however, the
noise level specified herein shall be deemed to be the ambient noise level for
that location.
            Sound
District Time Level
              Decibels
                                   Sound
District    Time                     Level
                                     Decibels
                                     
Residential 10:00 P.M. to 7:00 A.M.  50
Residential 7:00 P.M. to  10:00 P.M. 55
Residential 7:00 A.M. to  7:00 P.M.  60
Commercial  10:00 P.M. to 7:00 A.M.  60
Commercial  7:00 A.M. to  10:00 P.M. 65
Industrial  Anytime                  70
 
   DECIBEL: A unit of sound level when the base of the logarithm is the tenth
root of ten (10) and the quantities concerned are proportional to power.
   EMERGENCY WORK: Work necessary to restore property to a safe condition
following a public calamity, work required to repair structures or otherwise
protect persons or property from an imminent exposure to danger or damage, or
work by private or public utilities when restoring or repairing utility
service.
   FREQUENCY: "Frequency" of a function periodic in time means the reciprocal
of the primitive period. The unit is the hertz and shall be specified.
   HERTZ: The complete sequence of values of a periodic quantity which occurs
during a period.
   MICROBAR: A unit of pressure commonly used in acoustics and is equal to one
dyne per square centimeter.
   PERIOD: "Period" of a periodic quantity means the smallest increment of time
for which the function repeats itself.
   PERIODIC QUANTITY: Oscillating quantity, the values of which recur for equal
increments of time.
   SOUND LEVEL (Noise Level): In decibels (dB) is the sound pressure level as
measured with the "A" weighting and slow response by a sound level meter.
   SOUND LEVEL METER: An instrument including a microphone, an amplifier, an
output meter, and frequency weighting networks for the measurement of sound
levels which satisfies the pertinent specifications published by the American
National Standards Institute, New York, New York, in "American Standard Sound
Level Meters for Measurement of Noise and Other Sounds". S1.4-1971, or the most
recent revision thereof.
   MOTOR VEHICLES: Includes, but is not limited to, minibikes and go-carts.
   SOUND AMPLIFYING EQUIPMENT: Any machine or device for the amplification of
the human voice, music or any other sound. "Sound amplifying equipment" shall
not include standard automobile radios or tape players when used and heard only
by the occupants of the vehicle in which the automobile radio is installed.
"Sound amplifying equipment", as used in this Chapter, shall not include
warning devices or radios on authorized emergency vehicles, or horns or other
warning devices on any vehicle, which are used only for traffic safety
purposes.
   SOUND TRUCK: Any motor vehicle, or any other vehicle regardless of motive
power, whether in motion or stationary, having mounted thereon, or attached
thereto, any sound amplifying equipment.
6-17-3: DECIBEL MEASUREMENT CRITERIA:
Decibel measurement made pursuant to the provisions of this Chapter shall be
based on a reference sound pressure of 0.0002 microbars as measured with a
sound level meter using the "A" weighted network.
6-17-4: MONITORING PROCEDURES:
The following procedures shall be employed for monitoring and evaluating noise
in the community unless otherwise specified in this Chapter:
   (A)   The evaluation shall be conducted anytime of the day or night when the
offending noise source is being operated.
   (B)   For outside measurements, the location selected for monitoring shall
be at a point at least ten feet (10') from any building, wall or obstruction
(trees, bushes, etc.) whenever possible. In cases where no point on the
property line satisfies this criteria, readings will be taken as far as
possible from the nearest obstruction and such distance will be noted. For
inside measurements, the monitoring location shall be at least three feet (3')
from any wall.
   (C)   The sound level meter shall be equipped with an omnidirectional
microphone.
   (D)   No individual other than the operator shall be within ten feet (10')
of the sound level meter during the sample period.
   (E)   The ambient noise level shall be determined with the offending noise
source not in operation, in the following manner:
      1.   Calibrate the sound level meter in accordance with the
manufacturer's instructions.
      2.   Set the sound level meter on the "A" weighted network at slow
response.
      3.   Without the offending noise source in operation, set the microphone
in a vertical position on the complaint party's property with the microphone
head approximately four feet (4') above the ground or floor. The operator shall
face the noise source and record the meter's instantaneous response (reading)
observed at fifteen (15) second intervals for a period of fifteen (15) minutes.
The arithmetical average (mean) reading is interpreted as the ambient noise
level of that sampling point.
   (F)   With the offending noise source in operation, the operator shall again
record the instantaneous response at the same location at fifteen (15) second
intervals for a fifteen (15) minute period, or for a noise source of less than
fifteen (15) minutes, the operator shall record the instantaneous response at
fifteen (15) second intervals for the time the offending noise source is in
operation. The arithmetical average (mean) response level recorded while the
offending noise source is in operation is interpreted as the offending noise
level.
6-17-5: EXCESSIVE NOISE PROHIBITED:
No person shall make, cause or suffer or permit to be made or caused upon any
premises or upon any public street, sidewalk, alley or place within the City,
any sound or noise which causes discomfort or annoyance to any reasonable
person of normal sensitiveness residing or working in the area, unless such
noise or sound is specifically authorized by or in accordance with this
Chapter. The provisions of this Section shall apply to, but shall not be
limited to, the control, use and operation of the following noise sources:
   (A)   Radios, musical instruments, phonographs, television sets, tape decks
or other machines or devices used for the amplification, production or
reproduction of sound or the human voice.
   (B)   Animals or fowl creating, generating or emitting any cry or behavioral
sound.
   (C)   Machinery or equipment, such as fans, pumps, air conditioning units,
engines, turbines, compressors, generators, motors or similar devices,
equipment or apparatus.
   (D)   Construction equipment or work, including the operation, use or
employment of pile drivers, hammers, saws, drills, derricks, hoists or similar
construction equipment or tools.
6-17-6: PRIMA FACIE VIOLATION:
Any noise or sound exceeding the ambient noise level at the property line of
any person offended thereby, or, if a condominium or apartment house, within
any adjoining living unit, by more than five (5) decibels shall be deemed to be
prima facie evidence of a violation of Section
6-17-5.
6-17-7: SCHOOLS, HOSPITALS AND CHURCHES:
No person shall create any noise on any street, sidewalk or public place
adjacent to any school, institution of learning or church while the same is in
use, or adjacent to any hospital, which noise unreasonably interferes with the
workings of such institution or which disturbs or unduly annoys patients in the
hospital, provided conspicuous signs are displayed in such street, sidewalk or
public place indicating the presence of a school, church or hospital.
6-17-8: PUBLIC ADDRESS SYSTEMS:
No person, other than personnel of law enforcement or governmental agencies,
shall install, use or operate within the City a loudspeaker or sound amplifying
equipment in a fixed or movable position or mounted upon any sound truck for
the purposes of giving instructions, directions, talks, addresses, lectures or
transmitting music to any person or assemblages of persons in or upon any
street, alley, sidewalk, park or other public property without first filing an
application statement and obtaining approval thereof as set forth in this
Section.
   (A)   Application Statements; Filing: Every user of such sound amplifying
equipment shall file an application statement with the Police Chief five (5)
days prior to the date on which the sound amplifying equipment is intended to
be used, which statement shall contain the following information:
      1.   The name, address and telephone number of both the owner and user of
the sound amplifying equipment;
      2.   The maximum sound producing power of the sound amplifying equipment
which shall include the wattage to be used, the volume in decibels of sound
which will be produced, and the approximate distance for which sound will be
audible from the sound amplifying equipment;
      3.   The license and motor number if a sound truck is to be used;
      4.   A general description of the sound amplifying equipment which is to
be used;
      5.   The dates and times such equipment is intended to be used;
      6.   A statement as to the purpose for which the sound amplifying
equipment is to be used.
   (B)   Application Statements; Approval: The Police Chief shall return to the
applicant within five (5) working days an approved copy of the application
statement unless he finds that:
      1.   Use of the equipment would constitute a detriment to traffic or
pedestrian safety; or
      2.   The application statement required reveals that the applicant would
violate any provisions of this Chapter or City Code.
   (C)   Disapproval: In the event the application statement is disapproved,
the Police Chief shall endorse upon the statement his reasons for disapproval
and return it forthwith to applicant.
   (D)   Revocation or Suspension: Any application statement approved hereunder
shall be revocable and may be revoked by the Police Chief when a fact is found
to exist which would have been a ground for refusal to approve same or when
there has been a violation of any of the terms of this Chapter. Said statement
may be reinstated by the Police Chief upon terms or conditions reasonably
calculated to alleviate the dereliction.
   (E)   Appeal: Any person aggrieved by any action of the Police Chief
regarding an application statement may appeal such decision to the Council by
filing a written appeal within ten (10) days with the City Clerk, who shall
deliver a copy thereof to the Police Chief and set the matter for public
hearing. The hearing shall be formal, except that the formal rules of evidence
shall not apply. The Council may continue the hearing from time to time and
shall render its decision within three (3) days after the close thereof. The
Council may:
      1.   Reinstate or approve the application statement;
      2.   Delete, alter or improve any term or condition reasonably calculated
to alleviate any dereliction; or
      3.   Revoke the approval of the application statement.
   (F)   Regulations: The commercial and noncommercial use of such sound
amplifying equipment shall be subject to the following regulations:
      1.   The only sound permitted shall be either music or human speech, or
both.
      2.   The operation of such sound amplifying equipment shall only occur
between the hours of seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. and ten o'clock (10:00) P.M.
each day.
      3.   No sound emanating from such sound amplifying equipment shall exceed
fifteen (15) decibels above the ambient noise as measured at any property line.
      4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this subsection,
such sound amplifying equipment shall not be operated within two hundred feet
(200') of churches, schools or hospitals.
      5.   In any event, the volume of sound shall be so controlled that it
will not be unreasonably loud, raucous, jarring, disturbing or cause annoyance
or discomfort to reasonable persons of normal sensitiveness within the area of
audibility.
   (G)   Duration of Application Statement: Application statements approved
pursuant to this Section shall be valid for the period specified thereon by the
Police Chief, which period shall not exceed one year. Statements approved
hereunder for a full year shall be automatically renewed from year to year
without further application or filing; provided, that the Police Chief may fix
an earlier termination date for any such statement at any time following the
initial renewal thereof, whenever he deems it in the public interest to do so,
by mailing, at least five (5) days prior to the date so fixed, a written notice
of such fact to the applicant at the address shown in his application.
   (H)   Any application statement requesting approval for the use of a
loudspeaker or sound amplifying equipment in any City park, shall be filed with
and approved by the Director of Recreation, rather than the Police Chief. In
all other respects, the procedures set forth in this Section shall be followed.
The Director of Recreation shall notify the Police Chief of each such
application statement he approves.
6-17-9: EXCEPTIONS:
   (A)   The provisions of this Chapter shall not apply to:
      1.   Construction, repair or remodeling work accomplished pursuant to a
building, electrical, plumbing, mechanical or other construction permit issued
by the City or other governmental agency, or to site preparation and grading,
provided such work takes place between the hours of seven o'clock (7:00) A.M.
and ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. on any day.
      2.   Emergency work.
      3.   Any act or acts which are prohibited by any law of the State of
California or the United States.
   (B)   Machinery and equipment installed in or affixed to realty on the
effective date of this Chapter and having a fair market value of five hundred
dollars ($500.00) or less on said date need not be brought into conformity
herewith until __________. All other machinery and equipment installed in or
affixed to realty on the effective date of this Chapter need not be brought
into conformity herewith until _____________.
6-17-10: PERMITS:
A permit may be issued authorizing noises prohibited by this Chapter whenever
it is found that the public interest will be served thereby or that extreme
hardship will result from the strict enforcement hereof, as follows:
   (A)   Application for Permit: Application for permits shall be in writing,
and shall contain the following information:
      1.   The name, address and telephone number of the applicant.
      2.   A general description of the equipment, apparatus, or other sound
sources to be utilized, and the area in which it will be utilized.
      3.   An estimate of the maximum sound level which will be generated by
the equipment, apparatus or sound source to be utilized and the basis for such
estimate.
      4.   The inclusive dates and times between which the sound will be
generated.
      5.   Facts showing that the public interest will be served by the
issuance of such permit or that extreme hardship will accrue to the applicant
if such permit does not issue.
   (B)   Criteria: Applications shall be filed with the city administrator, who
shall approve or disapprove same within five (5) working days of the date of
filing. The criteria which shall be considered by the city administrator in
determining whether the requested permit shall be issued will include, but not
be limited to, the following:
      1.   The level of the noise for which the permit is sought.
      2.   The ambient noise level in the vicinity where the sound source will
be utilized.
      3.   The proximity of the noise to residential sleeping facilities.
      4.   The nature and zoning of the area within which the noise will
emanate.
      5.   The density of the inhabitation of the area within which the noise
will emanate.
      6.   The time of day or night the noise will occur.
      7.   The duration of the noise.
      8.   Whether the noise will be recurrent, intermittent or constant.
   (C)   Issuance Of Permit: The city administrator shall issue the requested
permit unless he finds, considering the aforementioned criteria, that the
public interest will suffer thereby and that such public detriment exceeds the
hardship to be suffered by the applicant if the permit is not issued. In the
event the city administrator disapproves the application, he shall return same
to the applicant with a statement of the reasons for such action.
In approving a permit hereunder, the city administrator may impose such
conditions as he deems necessary to protect the public interest.
   (D)   Revocation Or Suspension: Any permit issued hereunder shall be
revocable and may be revoked by the city administrator when a fact is found to
exist which would have been a ground for refusal to approve same or when there
has been a violation of any of the terms or conditions thereof.
   (E)   Appeal: Any person aggrieved by any action of the city administrator
denying, revoking or imposing any condition on a permit may appeal such
decision to the city council by filing a written appeal within ten (10) days of
such action with the city clerk. When a proper appeal has been filed, the
decision of the city administrator shall be set aside and a hearing shall be
set before the council, noticed, and held, all in accordance with the rules of
a public hearing. The council may continue the hearing from time to time and
shall render its decision within three (3) days after the close thereof. The
council may:
      1.   Direct the issuance of the permit;
      2.   Delete, alter or impose any term or condition on the permit
reasonably calculated to alleviate any dereliction or protect the public
interest; or
      3.   Uphold the denial of the permit. (Ord. 840, 4-19-1982)
6-17-11: PENALTY:
(Rep. by Ord. 2001-8, 11-19-2001)
6-17-12: INJUNCTION:
In addition to other remedies provided by law, the operation or maintenance of
any device, instrument, vehicle or machinery in violation of any provision of
this chapter, which operation or maintenance causes discomfort or annoyance to
reasonable persons of normal sensitiveness or which endangers the comfort,
repose, health or peace of residents in the area, shall be deemed, and is
declared to be, a public nuisance and may be subject to abatement summarily by
a restraining order or injunction issued by a court of competent jurisdiction.
(Ord. 840, 4-19-1982)
CHAPTER 18
PUBLIC SAFETY ALARM SYSTEMS
SECTION:
6-18-1: Title
6-18-2: Purpose
6-18-3: Definitions
6-18-4: Unlawful Alarms
6-18-5: Enforcement
6-18-1: TITLE:
This chapter shall be referred to as the PUBLIC SAFETY ALARM SYSTEMS ORDINANCE.
(Ord. 2008-9, 11-17-2008)
6-18-2: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to set forth regulations governing burglary,
robbery, disturbance, fire, and medical alarm systems within the city to reduce
false alarms and to provide the authority to establish fines for false alarms.
(Ord. 2008-9, 11-17-2008)
6-18-3: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following words and phrases shall have the
meanings respectively ascribed to them by this section:
   ALARM SYSTEM: Any equipment designed or intended to notify persons of an
emergency at a particular location to which the police department is expected
to respond; or for detection of an unauthorized entry or attempted entry into
premises or a structure; or for alerting others to the commission of an
unlawful act, or both.
Alarm systems include, but are not limited to, silent alarms, audible alarms,
and direct dial telephone devices. The following devices shall not constitute
alarm systems within the meaning of this chapter:
   (A)   Alarm devices affixed to motor vehicles, trailers or trailer coaches 1
, vessels or aircraft;
   (B)   Alarm devices installed on a temporary basis by the police department.
   ALARM USER: Any person who owns or is entitled to the possession of any
premises or structure on which an alarm system has been installed.
   AUDIBLE ALARM: A device designed for the detection of an unauthorized entry
on, or an attempted entry into premises or a structure; or for alerting others
of the commission of an unlawful act, or any equipment designed or intended to
notify persons of an emergency at a particular location to which the police
department is expected to respond, and which, when activated generates an
audible sound on or off the premises.
   AUTOMATIC DIALING SYSTEM: Any alarm system which automatically sends over
regular telephone lines, by direct connection or otherwise, a prerecorded voice
message indicating the existence of an emergency situation that the alarm
system is designed to detect.
   DIRECT CONNECT ALARMS: An alarm system that is capable of transmitting a
signal to an agency maintained by a local governmental entity, including the
city of Selma or its police department.
   EXCESSIVE FALSE ALARMS: Those false alarms exceeding one within a calendar
year.
   FALSE ALARM: The activation of an alarm system through mechanical failure,
malfunction, improper installation or maintenance, or the negligence of the
owner, lesser or his or her employees or agents, which activates a response by
law enforcement or other emergency response providers when an emergency
condition does not exist; provided, however, alarms caused by acts of nature,
bona fide power outages, or fire shall not be considered false alarms. (Ord.
2008-9, 11-17-2008)
 
Notes
1 1. As defined in Veh.C. §§415, 630 and 635.
6-18-4: UNLAWFUL ALARMS:
   (A)   Excessive False Alarms: It shall be unlawful for any person to use,
operate or maintain an alarm system within the city that emits excessive false
alarms.
   (B)   Unlawful Alarms In Excess Of Fifteen Minutes: It shall be unlawful for
any audible alarm to not automatically cease transmission within fifteen (15)
minutes of activation. Should the alarm fail to silence after twenty (20)
minutes, and the police department is unable to contact the user or his
representative, the police department will cause an alarm agent or company to
respond and silence the alarm. All costs for silencing the alarm shall be the
responsibility of the alarm user. The costs to silence the alarm shall be a
charge against the alarm user and shall constitute a debt of that person and is
collectible by the city in the same manner as in the case of an obligation
under a contract, express or implied.
   (C)   Direct Dial Or Connection To Police Department: It shall be unlawful
for automatic dialing systems, direct connection alarms or other direct dial
alarms to dial or connect to the Selma police department directly. (Ord. 2008-
9, 11-17-2008)
6-18-5: ENFORCEMENT:
   (A)   False Alarms: Three (3) or more false alarms in any calendar year
shall result in the imposition of a fine as determined by resolution of the
city council. All fines shall be payable to the city of Selma. An invoice shall
be mailed to the alarm user within thirty (30) days of the false alarm. The
fine is due and owing not later than thirty (30) days after the date of mailing
of the invoice. The date of mailing shall appear on the invoice.
   (B)   Violation Of Chapter: Except as otherwise specifically provided,
pursuant to the provisions of Government Code section 36900, violation of any
of the provisions contained in this chapter shall constitute an infraction
punishable by fines as determined by resolution of the city council.
   (C)   Remedies Cumulative: All remedies set forth in this chapter are
cumulative and use of one or more remedies shall not bar the use of any other
remedy for the purpose of enforcing the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 2008-
9, 11-17-2008)
CHAPTER 19
ABANDONED AND INOPERABLE VEHICLES
SECTION:
6-19-1: Legislative Findings
6-19-2: Definitions
6-19-3: Exceptions
6-19-4: Other Laws And Ordinances
6-19-4.1: Parking On Private Property Visible From Public Streets
6-19-5: Enforcement
6-19-6: Entering Property
6-19-7: Voluntary Compliance
6-19-8: Notice Of Intention To Abate
6-19-9: Request For Hearing
6-19-10: Failure To Request Hearing; Removal; Costs
6-19-11: Public Hearing
6-19-12: Conduct Of Hearing
6-19-13: Decision By Enforcement Authority
6-19-14: Appeal
6-19-15: Removal Of Vehicle
6-19-16: Reconstruction Of Vehicle
6-19-17: Notice To Department Of Motor Vehicles
6-19-18: Collection Of Costs
6-19-19: Unclaimed Personal Property
6-19-20: Penalties
6-19-1: LEGISLATIVE FINDINGS:
Pursuant to the determination made and the authority granted by the state
legislature under section 22660 of the Vehicle Code of the state to remove
abandoned, wrecked, dismantled or inoperative vehicles or parts thereof from
private and public property as public nuisances, the city council hereby makes
the following findings and declarations:
The accumulation and storage of abandoned, wrecked, dismantled or inoperative
vehicles or parts thereof on private or public property, not including
highways, is hereby found to create a condition tending to reduce the value of
private property, to promote blight and deterioration, to invite plundering, to
create fire hazards, to constitute an attractive nuisance creating a hazard to
the health and safety of minors, to create a harborage for rodents and insects
and to be injurious to the health, safety and general welfare. Therefore, the
presence of an abandoned, wrecked, dismantled or inoperative vehicle or part
thereof, on private or public property, not including highways, except as
expressly hereinafter permitted, is hereby declared to constitute a public
nuisance which may be abated as such in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter. (Ord. 2004-12, 11-1-2004)
6-19-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter:
   ABANDON: To desert, surrender, forsake or cede voluntary relinquishment of
possession of a thing by the owner with intention of terminating his ownership,
but without vesting it in any other person.
   ADMINISTRATIVE COSTS: The costs to the city of performing the acts required
under this chapter. The city council hereby determines that the administrative
costs are in the amount of one hundred dollars ($100.00) for each vehicle
removed if the vehicle is removed by or on behalf of the city without a hearing
pursuant to section
6-19-10 of this chapter. In those cases in which the enforcement authority
conducts a hearing pursuant to section
6-19-11 of this chapter, he/she shall fix and determine the administrative
costs which shall be the actual cost to the city of performing all of the acts
pertaining to the specific vehicle which is the subject of the hearing.
   CITY: The city of Selma.
   COST OF REMOVAL: The actual cost to the city of having the vehicle removed.
   DISMANTLED VEHICLE: Any vehicle that is partially or wholly disassembled.
   ENFORCEMENT AUTHORITY: Shall be the city of Selma's designee from code
enforcement and Selma police department to conduct any inquiries and all
hearings.
   HIGHWAY: A way or place of whatever nature publicly maintained and opened to
the use of the public for purposes of vehicular travel. The term "highway"
includes streets.
   INOPERATIVE VEHICLE: One which:
   (A)   Has no engine; or
   (B)   Has no operative cooling system; or
   (C)   Has no transmission; or
   (D)   Has no drive shaft; or
   (E)   Has no gasoline tank; or
   (F)   Is missing one or more wheels; or
   (G)   Has no windshield; or
   (H)   Cannot be started and caused to move under its own power a distance of
at least two hundred (200) yards within twenty four (24) hours.
   (I)   Is not currently registered with the department of motor vehicles.
Where the owner or other person in possession of any vehicle described above
contends that such vehicle is inoperative only due to the fact that it is under
repair, proof that missing parts have been ordered within a reasonable time, or
are being repaired, may be accepted by the enforcement authority as a basis for
withholding further action under the provisions of this chapter for a
reasonable time.
   OWNER OF LAND: The owner of the land on which the vehicle, or parts thereof,
is located, as shown on the last equalized assessment.
   OWNER OF VEHICLE: The last registered owner and the legal owner of record.
   PRIVATE PROPERTY: Property that belongs absolutely to an individual and that
person has the exclusive right of disposition. Property of a specific, fixed,
and tangible nature, capable of being possessed and transmitted to another,
such as houses, lands, vehicles, etc.
   PUBLIC PROPERTY: Does not include "highway".
   VEHICLE: A device by which any person or property may be propelled, moved or
drawn upon a highway, except a device moved by human power or used exclusively
upon stationary rails or tracks. The term "vehicle" also includes any part or
portion of a vehicle which is less than a whole vehicle, and all of the
provisions of this chapter apply to a part or portion of a vehicle which is
less than a whole vehicle. (Ord. 2004-12, 11-1-2004)
6-19-3: EXCEPTIONS:
This chapter shall not apply to:
   (A)   A vehicle which is completely enclosed within a building in a lawful
manner so that it is not visible from the street or other public or private
property.
   (B)   A vehicle which is stored or parked in a lawful manner on private
property in connection with the business of a licensed dismantler, licensed
vehicle dealer or a junkyard, or when such storage or parking is necessary to
the operation of a lawfully conducted business or commercial enterprise.
   (C)   Nothing in this section shall authorize the maintenance of a public or
private nuisance as defined under provisions of law other than chapter 10
(commencing with section 22650) of division 11 of the Vehicle Code of the state
and this chapter. (Ord. 2004-12, 11-1-2004)
6-19-4: OTHER LAWS AND ORDINANCES:
This chapter is not the exclusive regulation of abandoned, wrecked, dismantled
or inoperative vehicles within the city. It shall supplement and be in addition
to the other regulatory statutes and ordinances heretofore or hereafter enacted
by the state, the city, or any other legal entity or agency having
jurisdiction. (Ord. 2004-12, 11-1-2004)
6-19-4.1: PARKING ON PRIVATE PROPERTY VISIBLE FROM PUBLIC STREETS:
It shall be unlawful to park or store a vehicle on any portion of private
property visible from a public street or from private property, unless said
vehicle is operative and is parked on a driveway. For the purposes of this
section, the word "driveway" shall mean and refer to a poured in place asphalt
or concrete slab which covers less than fifty percent (50%) of the required
front yard area and is connected to a public right of way by a curb cut. A
driveway may also be considered to be that portion of the property by which a
reasonable and prudent observation, is designed or clearly intended to be used
for off street parking on private property. (Ord. 2007-13, 11-19-2007)
6-19-5: ENFORCEMENT:
Except as otherwise provided herein, the provisions of this chapter shall be
administered and enforced by the enforcement authority or other persons
authorized by him/her to administer and enforce this chapter. (Ord. 2004-12,
11-1-2004)
6-19-6: ENTERING PROPERTY:
   (A)   Right To Enter: The enforcement authority and other persons authorized
by him/her may enter upon private or public property to examine a vehicle and
to obtain information as to the ownership and identity of a vehicle when
enforcing this chapter.
   (B)   Contract To Remove: If the city enters into a contract with any person
to remove or cause the removal of vehicles which have been declared to be
public nuisances pursuant to this chapter, such persons may enter upon private
or public property to remove such vehicles.
   (C)   Misdemeanor: Every person is guilty of a misdemeanor who in any way
denies, obstructs or hampers the entrance of the persons mentioned in this
section upon private or public property to carry out the aforementioned duties
or who denies, obstructs or hampers the performance of such duties by such
persons after they have entered the property. (Ord. 2004-12, 11-1-2004)
6-19-7: VOLUNTARY COMPLIANCE:
If it appears to the enforcement authority that an abandoned, wrecked,
dismantled or inoperative vehicle is located on private or public property, he/
she may follow such administrative procedures to secure voluntary removal of
such vehicle as appear advisable in each individual case prior to giving a
notice of intention to abate pursuant to section
6-19-8 of this chapter. (Ord. 2004-12, 11-1-2004)
6-19-8: NOTICE OF INTENTION TO ABATE:
If the enforcement authority cannot secure voluntary removal of the vehicle,
pursuant to section
6-19-7 of this chapter, he/she shall give written notice of intention to abate
and remove the vehicle. The ten (10) day notice shall contain a statement of
the hearing rights of the owner of the vehicle. The statement shall include
notice to the property owner that the property owner may appear in person at a
hearing or may present a sworn written statement denying responsibility for the
presence of the vehicle on the land with reasons for such denial, in lieu of
appearing. The notice of intention to abate shall be mailed, certified mail, to
the owner of the land as shown on the last equalized assessment roll and to the
last registered and legal owners of record of the vehicle unless the vehicle is
in such condition that identification numbers are not available to determine
ownership. The notice of intention to abate will also be mailed to the office
of the department of the California highway patrol as per section 22669 of the
Vehicle Code. (Ord. 2004-12, 11-1-2004)
6-19-9: REQUEST FOR HEARING:
The registered or legal owner of the vehicle or the owner of the land on which
the vehicle is located may request a hearing on the question of abatement and
removal of the abandoned, wrecked, dismantled or inoperative vehicle and on the
question of assessment of the administrative costs and cost of removal against
the property on which it is located. Such request for a hearing shall be in
writing and shall be filed with the enforcement authority not more than ten
(10) days after the date on which the notice of intention described in section
 6-19-8 of this chapter was mailed by the enforcement authority. If the owner
of the land on which the vehicle is located files with the enforcement
authority a sworn statement denying responsibility for the presence of the
vehicle on his/her land within said ten (10) day period, said statement shall
be construed as a request for a hearing which does not require the presence of
the owner submitting said statement. (Ord. 2004-12, 11-1-2004)
6-19-10: FAILURE TO REQUEST HEARING; REMOVAL; COSTS:
If no hearing is requested within the time limits specified in section
6-19-9 of this chapter, the enforcement authority shall cause the vehicle to be
removed and taken to a junkyard, automobile dismantling yard or refuse disposal
site. In addition, the owner shall be required to pay the administrative costs
and the cost of removal, in the amounts set forth in section
6-19-2 of this chapter. The enforcement authority shall send a request for
payment of said costs to the owner of the property by regular mail and if he/
she does not pay said costs within thirty (30) days after the date on which the
letter was mailed, the procedure set forth in subsection 6-19-18(B) of this
chapter shall be followed. (Ord. 2004-12, 11-1-2004)
6-19-11: PUBLIC HEARING:
If a public hearing has been requested in accordance with the provisions of
section
6-19-9 of this chapter, a public hearing shall be held on the question of
abatement and removal of a vehicle as an abandoned, wrecked, dismantled or
inoperative vehicle and the assessment of the administrative costs and cost of
removal against the property on which it is located. The enforcement authority
shall cause notices of the time and place of the hearing to be sent by regular
mail to the owner of the land as shown on the last equalized county assessment
roll, the last registered and legal owners of record of the vehicle unless the
vehicle is in such condition that identification numbers are not available to
determine ownership and the California highway patrol, identifying vehicle.
Said notices shall be mailed at least ten (10) days before the date of the
hearing. (Ord. 2004-12, 11-1-2004)
6-19-12: CONDUCT OF HEARING:
The public hearings under this chapter shall be conducted by the enforcement
authority. The enforcement authority shall hear all pertinent evidence offered
by all interested persons, including testimony on vehicle condition and its
location on private or public property. The technical rules of evidence shall
not be applicable to the hearing. The owner of the land on which the vehicle is
located may appear in person at the hearing or present a sworn written
statement for consideration at the hearing. The owner of the land may deny
responsibility for the presence of the vehicle on the land, with his/her
reasons for such denial. (Ord. 2004-12, 11-1-2004)
6-19-13: DECISION BY ENFORCEMENT AUTHORITY:
   (A)   Order To Remove: At the conclusion of the public hearing, the
enforcement authority may find that a vehicle has been abandoned, wrecked,
dismantled, or is inoperative on private or public property and order the same
removed from the property as a public nuisance and disposed of, in accordance
with section
6-19-15 of this chapter, and may determine that the administrative costs and
the cost of removal are to be charged against the owner of the land on which
the vehicle is located.
   (B)   Costs Waived: If it is determined by the enforcement authority that
the vehicle was placed on the land without the consent of the landowner and
that he/she has not subsequently acquiesced in its presence, the enforcement
authority shall not assess administrative costs and the cost of removal of the
vehicle against the property upon which the vehicle is located or otherwise
attempt to collect such costs from such landowner.
   (C)   Other Action: The enforcement authority may impose such conditions and
take such other action as he/she deems appropriate under the circumstances to
carry out the purposes of this chapter if, in his/her opinion, the
circumstances justify such action.
   (D)   Written Notice: Code enforcement officer or appointed designee of
enforcement authority shall give written notice of his/her decision to all of
the interested persons to whom the notice of hearing was mailed. (Ord. 2004-12,
11-1-2004)
6-19-14: APPEAL:
Within ten (10) days, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays, after
notice of the decision of the code enforcement officer has been mailed to the
interested parties, any person affected by the decision may file with the clerk
of the city council a written notice of appeal from said decision. The city
council shall thereafter set the matter for hearing. The clerk of the city
council shall give written notice of the hearing to all of the persons
mentioned in section
6-19-8 of this chapter. At the time and place set for the hearing, the city
council shall hear the matter de novo and all of the provisions of section
6-19-12 of this chapter shall be applicable to said hearing. The decision of
the city council after such hearing upon the appeal is final and conclusive as
to all things involved in the matter. The clerk of the city council shall give
written notice of the decision of the city council to all of the persons to
whom notice of the hearing was mailed. (Ord. 2004-12, 11-1-2004)
6-19-15: REMOVAL OF VEHICLE:
   (A)   Order To Remove: At any time after the enforcement authority orders an
abandoned, wrecked, dismantled or inoperative vehicle to be removed, pursuant
to section
6-19-13 of this chapter, any interested party may cause such vehicle to be
removed. If the enforcement authority has assessed administrative costs and the
cost of removal against the property on which the vehicle is located, and the
vehicle is voluntarily removed without the cost to the city, only the
administrative costs shall thereafter be collected from the owner of the land.
   (B)   City To Remove:
      1.   If no appeal has been filed and the vehicle has not been removed
within ten (10) days, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays, after
the notice of the decision of the enforcement authority was mailed to the
interested parties, the enforcement authority shall cause the vehicle to be
removed and taken to a junkyard, automobile dismantling yard or refuse disposal
site.
      2.   If an appeal has been filed, and the vehicle has not been removed
within ten (10) days, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays, after
the notice of the decision of the city council was mailed to the interested
parties, the enforcement authority shall cause the vehicle to be removed and
taken to a junkyard, automobile dismantling yard or refuse disposal site. (Ord.
2004-12, 11-1-2004)
6-19-16: RECONSTRUCTION OF VEHICLE:
After a vehicle has been removed pursuant to the provisions of this chapter, it
shall not thereafter be reconstructed or made operable, unless it qualifies as
a historical vehicle, pursuant to section 5004, California Vehicle Code. (Ord.
2004-12, 11-1-2004)
6-19-17: NOTICE TO DEPARTMENT OF MOTOR VEHICLES:
Within five (5) days after the date of removal of the vehicle pursuant to the
provisions of this chapter, the enforcement authority shall give notice of the
removal to the department of motor vehicles of the state identifying the
vehicle removed and transmit to said department any evidence of registration
available, including, but not limited to, registration certificates,
certificates of title and license plates. (Ord. 2004-12, 11-1-2004)
6-19-18: COLLECTION OF COSTS:
   (A)   Notice To Owner: If the enforcement authority has caused the vehicle
to be removed from the property, and he/she has assessed administrative costs
and the cost of removal against the owner of the property on which the vehicle
is located, the enforcement authority shall mail a notice to the owner of the
property of the administrative costs to be paid by the owner of the property.
If the vehicle is voluntarily removed by any interested party prior to the date
of hearing, there shall be no administrative costs assessed or charged.
   (B)   Unpaid Costs: If the costs referred to in subsection (A) of this
section are not paid within thirty (30) days after the date on which the notice
referred to therein is mailed to the owner of the property, the city council
may direct the county auditor to place the unpaid costs on the county tax roll
as a special assessment against the property pursuant to section 25845 of the
Government Code of the state. The assessment shall be transmitted to the tax
collector for collection. (Ord. 2004-12, 11-1-2004)
6-19-19: UNCLAIMED PERSONAL PROPERTY:
Prior to the removal of the vehicle or part thereof as provided in this
chapter, the enforcement authority shall inventory any unclaimed personal
property found in such vehicle. The inventory shall be conducted in the
presence of the owner of the vehicle or the owner of the land upon which the
vehicle is located, if such persons can be located with reasonable effort. The
enforcement authority shall retain and dispose of such property in the same
manner as any property found or abandoned in the city of Selma. (Ord. 2004-12,
11-1-2004)
6-19-20: PENALTIES:
   (A)   Failure To Remove: It shall be unlawful and a misdemeanor for any
person to fail or refuse to remove an inoperative, abandoned, wrecked or
dismantled vehicle or part thereof or refuse to abate such nuisance when
ordered to do so in accordance with the abatement provisions of this chapter or
state law where such law is applicable. Notwithstanding the classification of a
violation of this chapter as a misdemeanor, at the time an action is commenced
to enforce the provisions of this chapter. The trial court, upon recommendation
of the prosecuting attorney and with the consent of the defendant, may reduce
the charged offense from a misdemeanor to an infraction pursuant to section 19
(c) of the California Penal Code.
   (B)   Misdemeanor: Any person convicted of a misdemeanor under this chapter
shall be subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. Each day that a violation continues shall be regarded as a
new and separate offense.
   (C)   Infraction: Any person convicted of any infraction of this chapter
shall be subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. Each day that a violation continues shall be regarded as a
new and separate offense. (Ord. 2004-12, 11-1-2004)
CHAPTER 20
ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
SECTION:
6-20-1: Definitions
6-20-2: Possession Of Open Alcoholic Beverage Container Prohibited
6-20-3: Alcoholic Beverage Consumption Prohibited In Public Places
6-20-4: Pioneer Village; Alcoholic Beverages
6-20-5: Alcoholic Beverage Consumption At The Selma Arts Center
6-20-1: DEFINITIONS:
Whenever in this chapter the following terms are used, they shall have the
meanings respectively described to them:
   ALLEY: Every way set apart for public travel except streets.
   SIDEWALK: That portion of a street between the curb lines and the adjacent
property lines set aside for pedestrian travel.
   STREET OR HIGHWAY: A way or place, of whatever nature, publicly maintained
for purposes of vehicular traffic. (Ord. 93-8, 10-4-1993, eff. 11-4-1993)
6-20-2: POSSESSION OF OPEN ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE CONTAINER PROHIBITED:
It is unlawful for any person to have in his possession or on his person any
bottle, glass, can or other receptacle containing any alcoholic beverage
including wine or beer, which has been opened or a seal broken or the contents
of which have been partially removed, on any street, highway, alley or sidewalk
within the city. This section shall not be deemed to make punishable any act or
acts which are prohibited by any law of the state. (Ord. 93-8, 10-4-1993, eff.
11-4-1993)
6-20-3: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE CONSUMPTION PROHIBITED IN PUBLIC PLACES:
It is unlawful for any person to consume any alcoholic beverages, as defined in
the California Business And Professions Code: a) upon any public place; b)
while on private property opened to public view without the express permission
of the owner, his agent, or the person in lawful possession thereof. This
section shall not be construed or interpreted as applicable to any act or acts
prohibited or punishable by state law, but shall be limited to permitted
subjects of local regulation not preempted by state law.
For purposes of this section only, "public place" shall mean any alley, street,
highway, sidewalk, park, parkway, city parking lot, playground, school grounds,
bus station, or in any place on public property opened to the general public,
which place is not licensed for the consumption of such alcohol on the
premises. (Ord. 93-8, 10-4-1993, eff. 11-4-1993)
6-20-4: PIONEER VILLAGE; ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES:
No person shall have in his or her possession, or consume any beer, wine, or
other intoxicating beverage on the grounds of Pioneer Village or in any of the
structures therein, unless such possession and/or consumption is in conjunction
with a public or private event, gathering, or function approved for the
consumption of alcohol by the Community Services Director by application and
rental or use agreement. Any event, gathering, or function that involves the
consumption of alcohol must obtain a day license from the California Department
of Alcoholic Beverage Control and shall be subject to all rules and regulations
of Pioneer Village. The Community Services Director and Chief of Police may
impose conditions on any event, gathering, or function that involves the
consumption of alcohol to protect the public health and safety. This section
shall not be deemed to make punishable any act or acts which are prohibited by
any law of the state. (Ord. 93-8, 10-4-1993, eff. 11-4-1993; amd. Ord. 2021-1,
7-6-2021)
6-20-5: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE CONSUMPTION AT THE SELMA ARTS CENTER:
The city of Selma or a nonprofit corporation duly organized and existing for
the purpose of soliciting funds, donations, grants, and/or charitable
contributions for the improvement or operation of the Selma Arts Center, or for
promoting the activities or functions to be carried on at the Selma Arts
Center, or for any other reason related to the operation of the Selma Arts
Center, shall be permitted to sponsor, conduct and hold events, gatherings and
functions that involve the possession, consumption or service for consumption
of alcoholic beverages on the premises of the Selma Arts Center or any adjacent
or accessible sidewalk, street, alley, or city owned parking lot or other
public property owned by the city of Selma that would otherwise be prohibited
by this chapter. The chief of police may impose any condition deemed necessary
to protect the public health and safety including, but not limited to, the
establishment of appropriate barricades, safety controls or establishment and
implementation of any regulation deemed necessary to protect the public health
and safety. (Ord. 2013-1, 2-19-2013)
CHAPTER 21
GRAFFITI
SECTION:
6-21-1: Definitions
6-21-2: Sale, Exchange Or Transfer Of Aerosol Paint Containers Or Wide Tipped
Marker Pens To Minors
6-21-3: Possession By Minors
6-21-4: Display Of Aerosol Spray Paint Cans By Licensed Business Persons
6-21-5: Signs Required
6-21-6: Removal
6-21-7: Responsibility
6-21-8: Penalties (Rep. by Ord. 2001-8, 11-19-2001)
6-21-9: Alternatives
6-21-10: Effect Of Provisions On State Penal Code
6-21-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following terms and phrases as used in this chapter shall mean:
   AEROSOL SPRAY PAINT CONTAINER: Any aerosol or pressurized container of paint
and/or any wide tipped marker pens exceeding four (4) millimeters in width,
containing anything other than a solution which can be removed with water when
dry.
   GRAFFITI: Any unauthorized inscription, work, figure, design, writing or
picture which is marked, etched, scratched, drawn or painted upon any public
property or any structure, wall, fence, sidewalk, sign, public utility box or
any structural component of any building, bridge, structure or any facility in
public view to any person utilizing any public street in the city, including,
but not limited to, any roadway, parkway, sidewalk or alley. (Ord. 93-11, 1-18-
1994)
6-21-2: SALE, EXCHANGE OR TRANSFER OF AEROSOL PAINT CONTAINERS OR WIDE TIPPED
MARKER PENS TO MINORS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to sell, exchange, give, loan or otherwise
transfer or cause or permit to be sold, exchanged, given, loaned or otherwise
transferred any aerosol spray paint container or wide tipped marker pen, to any
person under the age of eighteen (18) years. (Ord. 93-11, 1-18-1994)
6-21-3: POSSESSION BY MINORS:
It is unlawful for any individual under the age of eighteen (18) years, who is
in a public place or on private property, without the consent of the owner,
tenant or operator thereon, and who is not accompanied by a responsible adult,
to possess an aerosol spray paint container or wide tipped marker pen. (Ord.
93-11, 1-18-1994)
6-21-4: DISPLAY OF AEROSOL SPRAY PAINT CANS BY LICENSED BUSINESS PERSONS:
Every person who owns, conducts, operates or manages a retail commercial
establishment selling aerosol spray paint containers, or wide tipped marker
pens, shall store or cause such aerosol spray paint containers or marker pens
to be stored in an area viewable by, but not accessible to the public in the
regular course of business without employee assistance, pending legal sale or
disposition of such marker pens or paint containers. (Ord. 93-11, 1-18-1994)
6-21-5: SIGNS REQUIRED:
Any person engaged in the retail sale of aerosol spray paint containers and/or
wide tipped marker pens, shall display at the location of retail sales a sign
clearly visible and legible to employees and customers which states as follows:
It is unlawful for any person to sell, lend or give to any individual under the
age of eighteen (18) years, who is not accompanied by a responsible adult, an
aerosol or pressurized container of paint or wide-tipped marker pens exceeding
four (4) millimeters in width, containing anything other than a solution which
can be removed with water when dry.
(Ord. 93-11, 1-18-1994)
6-21-6: REMOVAL:
   (A)   General: Any person applying graffiti within the City shall have the
duty to remove same in a manner approved by the City and the property owner
within 24-hours after notice by the City or a public or private owner of the
property involved. Failure of any such person to remove graffiti shall
constitute an additional violation of this Chapter. Consistent with Civil Code
§ 1714.1 where graffiti is applied by minors, the parent or guardian shall be
responsible for such removal or payment of cost thereof.
   (B)   Public Property: Whenever the City Manager or his designee
representative determines that graffiti exists upon property owned by the City,
it shall be removed as soon as possible. When the property is owned by a public
entity other than the City, the removal of the graffiti may be authorized by
the City Manager or his representative and the removal undertaken by the City
only after securing the consent of the public entity having jurisdiction over
the property.
   (C)   Property Owner Responsibility: Any person who is the owner of or is in
possession and control of real property or who is otherwise primarily
responsible for control of the property or repair or maintenance of the
property in the City of Selma that has been defaced with graffiti who receives
a notice to remove graffiti issued by the City, by personal delivery or by
certified mail or by a posting in a conspicuous place on the property where the
graffiti is located, shall be required within ten (10) days of such notice to
cause the graffiti to be removed. The notice shall include a form which when
executed will provide consent and a general release of liability to the City
allowing the City to enter upon the property and remove the graffiti. If the
consent and general release from liability is executed and the City is notified
of its execution, the City will enter upon the property for purpose of
removing, repairing, or painting over the graffiti free of charge. The notice
shall apprise the property owner or other lessee or person in possession of
real property that if the consent and release is not executed the graffiti must
be removed, repaired or painted over by the property owner or person in
possession. Failure to remove, or failure to execute the consent and release of
liability form that will accompany the notice and allowing the City remove,
repair or paint over the graffiti, within ten (10) days of the date of the
service of the notice shall result in the imposition of daily fines in the
amount of one hundred dollars ($100.00) per day for each day the property
remains defaced for a period of ten (10) days after service by personal
delivery or by certified mail or by posting at a conspicuous place on the
property where the graffiti is located, written notice to the owner and to any
lessee, occupant or other person having possession of the real property that
graffiti must be removed within such ten (10) day period. When daily fines so
imposed equal or exceed one thousand five hundred dollars ($1,500.00), the City
Attorney is authorized to file a civil suit for the recovery of such fines or
penalties and an order of the court allowing the City to enter upon the
property and remove, repair or paint over the graffiti or mandating that the
owner do so within a specified time following entry of the abatement order in
any such action.
   (D)   Responsible Party For Real Property: Notwithstanding any term or
provision to the contrary in any oral or written lease or rental agreement,
property management, maintenance, or similar agreement granting possession or
control of real property to another, the owner or owner's of real property in
the City of Selma in the possession or under the control of any other person,
lessee, tenant, property manager, caretaker or custodian of any type shall be
deemed to have consented to the removal of graffiti from the real property
either by the City or by such lessee, tenant, property manager, caretaker,
custodian or other person in possession or control of the real property upon
that person's giving consent to or conducting the removal of graffiti from the
real property. It shall be unlawful for any owner of real property of the City
of Selma to take any adverse action against any person lawfully in possession
or control of the property for having complied with or attempting to comply
with an notice to remove graffiti on the property issued by the City of Selma.
(Ord. 2018-5, 5-7-2018; amd. Ord. 2025-04, 4-15-2025)
6-21-7: RESPONSIBILITY:
Any individual who is found guilty of violation of subsection
 6-21-6(A) of this chapter shall pay restitution to the property owner, in
addition to authorized penalties. If the violator is a minor, the parent or
guardian shall be responsible for payment of restitution. If unable to pay, the
juvenile may be permitted to work off his/her payment under the direction of at
least one parent or guardian by painting out any graffiti. (Ord. 93-11, 1-18-
1994)
6-21-8: PENALTIES:
(Rep. by Ord. 2001-8, 11-19-2001)
6-21-9: ALTERNATIVES:
Nothing in the foregoing sections shall be deemed to prevent the City from
commencing a civil or criminal proceeding to abate a public nuisance under
applicable Civil or Penal Code provisions as an alternative to the proceedings
set forth herein. (Ord. 93-11, 1-18-1994)
6-21-10: EFFECT OF PROVISIONS ON STATE PENAL CODE:
No portion of this chapter is intended to supersede any California Penal Code
sections which govern similar actions, such as section 594.1 of the Penal Code.
It is intended that this chapter be construed as supplementing State law
concerning graffiti and the sale and possession of aerosol spray paint
containers. (Ord. 93-11, 1-18-1994)
CHAPTER 22
MINORS
SECTION:
6-22-1: Liability of Parents for Wilful Misconduct of Minor
6-22-2: Defacement of Property With Paint; Parental Responsibility
6-22-1: LIABILITY OF PARENTS FOR WILFUL MISCONDUCT OF MINOR:
Any act of wilful misconduct of a minor which results in injury or death to
another person or in any injury to the property of another shall be imputed to
the parent or guardian having custody and control of the minor for all purposes
of civil damages, and the parent or guardian having custody and control shall
be jointly and severally liable with the minor for all damages resulting from
the wilful misconduct.
The joint and several liability of the parent or guardian having custody and
control of a minor under this Section shall not exceed ten thousand dollars
($10,000.00) for each tort of the minor, and in the case of an injury to a
person, imputed liability shall be further limited to medical, dental and
hospital expenses incurred by the injured person, not to exceed ten thousand
dollars ($10,000.00). The liability imposed by this Section is in addition to
any liability now imposed by law. (Ord. 94-5, 4-4-94)
6-22-2: DEFACEMENT OF PROPERTY WITH PAINT; PARENTAL RESPONSIBILITY:
Any act of wilful misconduct of a minor which results in the defacement of
property of another with paint or a similar substance shall be imputed to the
parent or guardian having custody and control of the minor for all purposes of
civil damages, including court costs and attorney's fees, to the prevailing
party, and the parent or guardian having custody and control shall be jointly
and severally liable with the minor for any damages resulting from the wilful
misconduct, not to exceed ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00) for each tort of
the minor. (Ord. 94-5, 4-4-94)
CHAPTER 23
RECOVERY OF EXPENSE FOR RESPONSE TO ALCOHOL OR DRUG RELATED INCIDENTS
SECTION:
6-23-1: Legislative Intent
6-23-2: Definitions
6-23-3: Liability for City Expense
6-23-4: Limit on Liability
6-23-5: Evidence Not Admissible in Criminal Proceedings
6-23-1: LEGISLATIVE INTENT:
It is the intent of this Chapter for the City to recover the expenses of an
emergency response to any incident involving persons who operate a motor
vehicle, a boat or vessel, or a civil aircraft while under the influence of an
alcoholic beverage or any drug, or the combined influence of an alcoholic
beverage and any drug, as authorized under Government Code sections
53150–53158. (Ord. 94-4, 4-4-94)
6-23-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this Chapter, the following words and phrases shall have
the meanings respectively ascribed to them herein:
   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE: Includes alcohol, spirits, liquor, wine, beer or any
liquid or solid containing alcohol, spirits, wine or beer, and which contain
one-half (1/2) of one percent (1%) or more of alcohol by volume and which is
fit for beverage purposes either alone or when diluted, mixed or combined with
other substances.
   DRUG: Includes any controlled substance or immediate precursor which is
listed in any schedule in California Health and Safety Code section 11054,
11055, 11056, 11057 or 11058.
   EXPENSE OF A POLICE RESPONSE: The costs incurred by the City in responding
directly to an incident involving persons who operate a motor vehicle, a boat
or vessel, or a civil aircraft while under the influence of an alcoholic
beverage or any drug, or the combined influence of an alcoholic beverage and
any drug. It includes the cost of providing police, firefighting, rescue and
emergency medical services, together with the salaries of the responding police
personnel, damages and clean up to City property and injuries to City
personnel.
   VEHICLE: A device by which any person or property which may be propelled or
moved, including, but not limited to, a motor vehicle, a boat or vessel, or a
civil aircraft. (Ord. 94-4, 4-4-94)
6-23-3: LIABILITY FOR CITY EXPENSE:
   (A)   A person who operates a vehicle, while under the influence of an
alcoholic beverage or any drug, or the combined influence of an alcoholic
beverage and any drug, whose negligent operation of the vehicle caused by that
influence proximity causes any incident resulting in an appropriate emergency
response, and any person whose intentional wrongful conduct proximity causes
any incident resulting in an appropriate emergency response, is liable for the
expense of the police response.
   (B)   The expense of police response is a charge against the person liable
for the expense. If the person liable is a minor, the parents or guardian of
the minor are liable.
   (C)   The charge is a debt and the City may collect the debt in the same
manner as in the case of an obligation under an express or implied contract.
The debt bears interest at the rate of nine percent (9%) a year. Interest
accrues from the due date stated on the billing. (Ord. 94-4, 4-4-94)
6-23-4: LIMIT ON LIABILITY:
The liability under this Chapter for the expense of police response may not
exceed one thousand dollars ($1,000.00). (Ord. 94-4, 4-4-94)
6-23-5: EVIDENCE NOT ADMISSIBLE IN CRIMINAL PROCEEDINGS:
The testimony, admission or statement made by a person in a proceeding to
collect the expense of a police response is not admissible in a criminal
proceeding arising out of the same incident. (Ord. 94-4, 4-4-94)
CHAPTER 24
EXPOSURE OF MINORS TO TOBACCO PRODUCTS
SECTION:
6-24-1: Purpose
6-24-2: Definitions
6-24-3: Cigarettes Or Tobacco, Sale Of To Minors
6-24-4: E-Cigarettes, Sales To Minors
6-24-5: Use Of Electronic Or Vapor Cigarettes Prohibited
6-24-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to provide minimum standards to safeguard the
life, health, property, and public welfare in keeping with the character of the
city by establishing standards to control exposure of minors to tobacco
products and to regulate the manner in which tobacco products are sold. (Ord.
99-6, 5-17-1999)
6-24-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, words and phrases shall be given their
customary and usual meanings and shall be interpreted and construed
accordingly, unless a different meaning is expressly ascribed thereto.
E-CIGARETTE OR Battery powered devices that convert liquid nicotine and/or propylene glycol
VAPOR          and/or vegetable glycerin into a mist or vapor that is inhaled.
CIGARETTE:
ELECTRONIC     Any such device, whether manufactured, distributed, marketed, or sold as an
SMOKING        electronic cigarette, an electronic cigar, an electronic cigarillo, an
DEVICE:        electronic pipe, an electronic hookah, or any other product name or descriptor.
               Any person in the service of another under any contract of hire, express or
               implied, oral or written, where the employer has the power or right to control
EMPLOYEE:      and direct the employee in the material details of how the work is to be
               performed. Employee also includes any person volunteering his or her time or
               service.
MINOR:         Any person under eighteen (18) years of age.
TOBACCO        Any item designed or marketed for the consumption, use, or preparation of
PARAPHERNALIA: Tobacco Products.
               (A)   Any product containing, made, or derived from tobacco or nicotine that is
               intended for human consumption, whether smoked, heated, chewed, absorbed,
               dissolved, inhaled, snorted, sniffed, or ingested by any other means, including,
               but not limited to cigarettes, cigars, little cigars, chewing tobacco, pipe
               tobacco, snuff; or
               (B)   Any electronic device that delivers nicotine or other substances to the
               person inhaling from the device, including, but not limited to an electronic
TOBACCO        cigarette, electronic cigar, electronic pipe, or electronic hookah.
PRODUCT:       (C)   Notwithstanding any provision of subsections (A) and (B) to the contrary,
               "Tobacco Product" includes any component, part, or accessory intended or
               reasonably expected to be used with a Tobacco Product, whether or not sold
               separately.
               "Tobacco Product" does not include any product that has been approved by the
               United States Food and Drug Administration for sale as a tobacco cessation
               product or for other therapeutic purposes where such product is marketed and
               sold solely for such an approved purpose.
               A retail or wholesale business or any person that sells, offers for sale or
TOBACCO STORE  offers to exchange for any form of consideration, tobacco, tobacco products, or
OR TOBACCO     tobacco paraphernalia and has fifteen percent (15%) or more of its square feet
SHOP:          in the establishment used for the sale or display of tobacco, tobacco products
               or tobacco paraphernalia.
               Only store employees have access to the tobacco product and assist a customer by
VENDOR ASSIST: supplying the product. The customer does not take possession of the product
               until it is purchased. (Ord. 2013-11, 12-2-2013; amd. Ord. 2022-1, 3-21-2022)
 
6-24-3: CIGARETTES OR TOBACCO, SALE OF TO MINORS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to sell or give away, directly or
indirectly, to any person under the age of eighteen (18) years any cigarettes,
tobacco or any compounds of tobacco used in filling up or making up of a
cigarette or to give or sell any cigarette papers to minors. (Ord. 2001-8, 11-
19-2001)
6-24-4: E-CIGARETTES, SALES TO MINORS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to sell or give away, directly or
indirectly, to any person under the age of eighteen (18) years any e-cigarette
or any compound used to consume vapor from e-cigarettes. (Ord. 2013-11, 12-2-
2013)
6-24-5: USE OF ELECTRONIC OR VAPOR CIGARETTES PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to use e-cigarettes or vapor cigarettes
anywhere in the city where the use of tobacco is prohibited. (Ord. 2013-11, 12-
2-2013)
CHAPTER 25
SOCIAL HOST; CONSUMPTION OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
BY UNDERAGE PERSON(S)
SECTION:
6-25-1: Short Title
6-25-2: Findings And Intent
6-25-3: Purpose
6-25-4: Definitions
6-25-5: Consumption Of Alcohol By Underage Person(s)
6-25-6: Prima Facie Evidence
6-25-7: Separate Violation For Each Incident
6-25-8: Penalties For Violation And Enforcement Remedies
6-25-9: Reservation Of Legal Options
6-25-1: SHORT TITLE:
This chapter shall be known and cited as the SOCIAL HOST ORDINANCE. When used
in this chapter, "this chapter" means the social host ordinance. (Ord. 2008-8,
9-15-2008)
6-25-2: FINDINGS AND INTENT:
The council finds and determines as follows:
   (A)   The occurrence of parties on private property where alcohol is served
to or consumed by underage person(s) is harmful to the underage person(s) and a
threat to public health, safety, quiet enjoyment of property, and the general
welfare, of the communities where such parties are held.
   (B)   Underage person(s) often obtain alcoholic beverages at parties held at
private residences or at rented residential and commercial premises that are
under the control of a person who knows or should know of the underage service
and/or consumption. Person(s) responsible for the occurrence of parties on
private property over which they have possession or control have failed to
ensure that alcoholic beverages are neither served to nor consumed by underage
person(s) at these parties.
   (C)   Control of parties on private property where underage person(s) are
being served or consuming alcohol is necessary because such activity poses a
threat to the peace, health, safety, or general welfare of the public. Police
ability to abate gatherings where alcohol is served to or consumed by underage
person(s) on private property will result in a decrease in abuse of alcohol by
underage person(s), physical altercations and injuries, neighborhood vandalism,
and excessive noise disturbance thereby improving public safety.
   (D)   Problems associated with such parties at which alcoholic beverages are
served to or consumed by underage person(s) are difficult to prevent and deter
unless law enforcement has the legal authority to direct the host to disperse
the party.
   (E)   Law enforcement, fire and other emergency response services personnel
have and are required to respond, sometimes on multiple occasions, to parties
on private property at which alcoholic beverages are served to or consumed by
underage person(s). Responses to such parties result in a disproportionate
expenditure of public safety resources and cause a drain on staff, leaving
other areas of the city with inadequate protection.
   (F)   Person(s) held responsible for abetting or tolerating parties will be
more likely to properly supervise and stop such conduct at parties held on
private property under their possession and control. The prohibitions found in
this chapter are reasonable and expected to deter the consumption of alcoholic
beverages by underage person(s) by holding person(s) who knowingly allow
service to or consumption by underage person(s) responsible. (Ord. 2008-8, 9-
15-2008)
6-25-3: PURPOSE:
The council finds and declares that the purpose of this chapter is:
   (A)   To protect public health, safety and general welfare;
   (B)   To enforce laws prohibiting the service to and consumption of alcohol
by underage person(s); and
   (C)   To reduce the costs of providing law enforcement, fire and other
emergency response services to parties by imposing a civil fee against social
hosts and landowners (including landlords) and for the recovery of costs
associated with providing law enforcement, fire and other emergency response
services to parties where alcoholic beverages are served to or consumed by
underage person(s). (Ord. 2008-8, 9-15-2008)
6-25-4: DEFINITIONS:
The following terms as used in this chapter shall have the meanings ascribed to
them in this section as follows:
   ALCOHOL: Ethyl alcohol, hydrated oxide of ethyl, or spirits of wine, from
whatever source or by whatever process produced.
   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE: Includes alcohol, spirits, liquor, wine, beer, and every
liquid or solid containing alcohol, spirits, wine, or beer, and which contains
one-half of one percent or more of alcohol by volume and which is fit for
beverage purposes either alone or when diluted, mixed, or combined with other
substances.
   JUVENILE: Any person under eighteen (18) years of age.
   PARTY OR PARTIES: An assembly of two (2) or more individuals for any
purpose, unless all of the individuals attending the assembly are members of
the same household or immediate family.
   PERSON(S): Includes, but is not limited to, any business, corporation, or
other organization.
   PRIVATE PROPERTY: A hotel or motel room or bed and breakfast unit, home,
yard, apartment, condominium, mobile home, cottage, cabin, trailer, tent or
other dwelling unit, abandoned or vacant warehouse or other building or a hall
or meeting room, whether occupied on a temporary or permanent basis, whether
occupied as a dwelling or for a party or other social function, and whether
owned, leased, rented or used with or without compensation.
   RESPONSIBLE PERSON: A person or persons with a right of possession in the
residence or other private property on which a party is conducted, including,
but is not limited to:
   (A)   An owner of the private property;
   (B)   A tenant or lessee of the private property;
   (C)   The person(s) in charge of the private property; and
   (D)   The person(s) who organizes, supervises, officiates, conducts or
controls the party or any other person(s) accepting responsibility for such
party.
   UNDERAGE PERSON(S): Any person under twenty one (21) years of age. (Ord.
2008-8, 9-15-2008)
6-25-5: CONSUMPTION OF ALCOHOL BY UNDERAGE PERSON(S):
Except as permitted by article I, section 4 of the California constitution, it
is unlawful for any person to:
   (A)   Knowingly permit, allow, or host a party on his or her private
property or premises under his or her control where underage person(s) are
present and alcoholic beverages are being served to or consumed by any underage
person(s).
   (B)   This section shall not apply to conduct involving the service to or
consumption of alcoholic beverages, which occurs exclusively between an
underage person(s) and his or her parent or legal guardian or during the course
of a religious ceremony conducted by an ordained minister.
   (C)   This section shall not apply to any location or place regulated by the
California department of alcohol and beverage control. (Ord. 2008-8, 9-15-2008)
6-25-6: PRIMA FACIE EVIDENCE:
Whenever a responsible person is present at a private property at the time an
underage person(s) is being served or consumes any alcoholic beverage thereon,
it shall be prima facie evidence that such person(s) had the knowledge or
should have had the knowledge specified in section
6-25-5 of this chapter. (Ord. 2008-8, 9-15-2008)
6-25-7: SEPARATE VIOLATION FOR EACH INCIDENT:
Each incident in violation of section
6-25-5 of this chapter shall constitute a separate offense. An "incident"
refers to each time law enforcement, fire, or other emergency personnel respond
to a party, i.e., if a response is required multiple times to the same party on
the same date, each response shall be a separate offense. (Ord. 2008-8, 9-15-
2008)
6-25-8: PENALTIES FOR VIOLATION AND ENFORCEMENT REMEDIES:
   (A)   A violation of this section shall constitute a misdemeanor punishable
by a fine of one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) or by imprisonment for a period
not to exceed six (6) months, or by both fine and imprisonment. (Ord. 2008-8,
9-15-2008)
6-25-9: RESERVATION OF LEGAL OPTIONS:
   (A)   The city of Selma does not waive its right to seek other legal
remedies or procedures. This section in no way limits the authority of peace
officers or private citizens to make arrests for any criminal offense arising
out of conduct currently regulated, nor do they limit in any way the
prosecution's ability to initiate and prosecute a criminal prosecution for any
violation of a criminal offense arising out of the same circumstances.
   (B)   If any section, subsection, sentence, clause or phrase or word of this
chapter is for any reason held to be unconstitutional by a court of competent
jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the validity of the remaining
portions of this chapter. The Selma city council hereby declares that it would
have passed and adopted this chapter and each and all provisions thereof
irrespective of the fact that any one or more of said provisions be declared
unconstitutional. (Ord. 2008-8, 9-15-2008)
CHAPTER 26
NONCONSENSUAL TOWING CONTRACTS
SECTION:
6-26-1: Definitions
6-26-2: Authority To Award
6-26-3: Nonexclusive Remedies
6-26-1: DEFINITIONS:
   FRANCHISE AGREEMENT: An agreement between the city of Selma and a franchisee
awarding a nonexclusive franchise to franchisee for nonconsensual towing
subject to the terms and conditions of the franchise agreement.
   NONCONSENSUAL TOWING: The towing of vehicles in circumstances not requiring
the owner's consent. (Ord. 2009-7, 8-17-2009)
6-26-2: AUTHORITY TO AWARD:
The city council of the city of Selma may award nonexclusive, nonconsensual
franchises in the city pursuant to the following:
   (A)   The granting of a nonconsensual towing franchise shall be done by a
franchise agreement approved by resolution of the city council of the city of
Selma and executed by the city manager or his or her designee.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in the business of
nonconsensual towing within the city unless such person is an employee or agent
of the city, or is a party, or agent or employee of a party, to a "franchise
agreement" as defined in this chapter.
   (C)   That all nonexclusive, nonconsensual towing franchises shall be
subject to the terms and conditions specified in the franchise agreement(s),
this code, applicable resolutions, and any other federal, state or local law.
   (D)   The city of Selma may award any number of franchises subject to
applicable state or federal law. The city of Selma may limit the number of
franchises awarded based upon, but not limited to, the number of franchises
necessary or required, as determined by the city manager or his or her
designee, to effectively nonconsensually tow vehicles as necessary or required
by this chapter or any other law.
   (E)   The city of Selma may, by resolution of the city council set and/or
amend, from time to time, a referral fee to be paid by franchisees for each tow
in an amount not to exceed the actual costs borne by the city related to
nonconsensual towing of vehicles as described in this chapter.
   (F)   In granting a nonexclusive, nonconsensual towing franchise, the city
council of the city of Selma may provide for such other and additional terms
and conditions as the council deems necessary to protect the public health,
safety, and welfare. (Ord. 2009-7, 8-17-2009)
6-26-3: NONEXCLUSIVE REMEDIES:
Nothing in this chapter precludes the city of Selma from using any other
available method to lawfully tow vehicles without the consent of the owner,
including, but not limited to, chapter 19 of this title. (Ord. 2009-7, 8-17-
2009)
CHAPTER 27
REGULATION OF CONSUMPTION OF MARIJUANA
SECTION:
6-27-1: Purpose
6-27-2: Regulation Of Consumption Of Recreational Or Medical Marijuana
6-27-3: Cost Recovery For Response Required For Marijuana Related Activity
6-27-4: Penalty
6-27-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to protect the health, safety and general
welfare of the public within the jurisdiction of the city of Selma. The city
council of the city of Selma finds that the use of marijuana may be injurious
to members of the public, including minors, who are not permitted to consume
marijuana. (Ord. 2016-8, 12-5-2016)
6-27-2: REGULATION OF CONSUMPTION OF RECREATIONAL OR MEDICAL MARIJUANA:
No person shall smoke, ingest, or otherwise consume marijuana or marijuana
products, whether recreational or medical, in the city of Selma, unless such
smoking, ingesting or consumption occurs entirely within a private residence.
"Within a private residence" shall mean inside habitable areas and shall not
include garages, whether attached or detached, and other accessory buildings,
unless those buildings are at all times fully enclosed during the consumption.
Medical marijuana may also be consumed within a clinic, healthcare facility,
residential care facility, or residential hospice licensed pursuant to
applicable provisions of the California Health And Safety Code. All consumption
shall be done in a manner so as not to cause a nuisance to nearby residents
with noxious odors or other adverse health and safety impacts. (Ord. 2016-8,
12-5-2016)
6-27-3: COST RECOVERY FOR RESPONSE REQUIRED FOR MARIJUANA RELATED ACTIVITY:
In the event it is determined by the appropriate department head of the city
that a call for service or response to any event or disturbance, including, but
not limited to, any fire, provision of medical assistance, or response by law
enforcement is the result of use or consumption of medical or nonmedical
marijuana, or is caused by any activity related to nonmedical or medical
marijuana including sale, transport, distribution, cultivation or processing of
marijuana or marijuana products, the department head may issue an invoice or
bill in the form of a citation to the person responsible for creating or
causing the event or disturbance in the amount of the actual cost incurred by
the department as a result. The invoice or bill so issued shall conform to the
extent practicable to the provisions of title I, chapter 20 of this code and
shall be subject to an appeal as provided by section
1-20-9 of this code. Following the conclusion of any such appeal, in the event
the validity of the invoice or bill is affirmed on appeal, or if the bill or
invoice is not timely appealed, the bill or invoice may be collected in the
manner provided by section
1-20-11 of this code, or by action in the courts on the debt thereby created.
Title I, chapter 20 of this code shall govern the time and manner by which an
appeal of any invoice or bill is taken. (Ord. 2016-8, 12-5-2016)
6-27-4: PENALTY:
Violations of this chapter shall be a misdemeanor and constitute a public
nuisance and shall be enforced in accordance with the procedures set forth in
title I, chapter 4 of this code or other applicable section of this code. (Ord.
2016-8, 12-5-2016)
CHAPTER 28
AGGRESSIVE SOLICITATIONS; PROHIBITED LOCATIONS
SECTION:
6-28-1: Definitions
6-28-2: Aggressive Or Abusive Solicitation Prohibited
6-28-3: All Solicitation Prohibited At Specified Locations
6-28-1: DEFINITIONS:
   AGGRESSIVE OR ABUSIVE MANNER: A solicitation via any of the following acts
or conduct:
      (A)   Intentionally coming within three feet (3') of a solicited person
unless and until that person has indicated, by word or conduct, that he or she
wishes to make a donation;
      (B)   Intentionally blocking the path of or impeding the passage or free
use of a sidewalk or public right of way by a solicited person;
      (C)   Intentionally falling behind, beside or in front of a solicited
person after that person has indicated, by word or conduct, that he or she does
not wish to make a donation;
      (D)   Continuing to request a donation from a solicited person after that
person has indicated, by word or conduct, that he or she does not wish to make
a donation;
      (E)   Approaching a solicited person when that person is entering or
exiting a motor vehicle or assisting another in doing so;
      (F)   Rending any service to a motor vehicle, including, but not limited
to, any cleaning, washing, protecting, guarding or repairing of said vehicle or
any portion thereof, without the consent of the owner, operator or occupant of
such vehicle, and thereafter requesting payment for the performance of such
service, regardless of whether such vehicle is stopped, standing, or parked;
      (G)   Threatening a solicited person, by word or conduct, with physical
harm or violence;
      (H)   Using profane or abusive language toward a solicited person;
      (I)   Intentionally touching or attempting to touch a solicited person
without that person's consent;
      (J)   Any other words or conduct that would cause a reasonable person, in
the position of the solicited person, to fear for his or her safety, the safety
of his or her property or the safety of another person accompanying the
solicited person;
      (K)   Intentionally blocking the path of a motor vehicle.
   AUTOMATED TELLER MACHINE OR ATM: An electronic information processing device
which accepts or dispenses cash in connection with a credit, deposit, savings,
or convenience account.
   BANK: A member bank of the federal reserve system, and any bank, banking
association, trust company, savings bank, or other banking institution
organized or operated under the laws of the United States, and any bank
deposits of which are insured by the federal deposit insurance corporation.
   CHECK CASHING BUSINESS: Any person duly licensed as a check seller, bill
payer, or prorater or who operates a business that conducts deferred deposit
transactions pursuant to California Financial Code sections 12000 et seq., and
23000 et seq., and California Civil Code section 1789.30, or any other similar
business.
   CREDIT UNION: A federal credit union and any state chartered credit union
the accounts of which are insured by the administrator of the national credit
union administration.
   PUBLIC PLACE: A place, whether publicly or privately owned, to which the
public or a substantial group of persons has access, and includes, but is not
limited to: any street, highway, sidewalk, parking lot, plaza, transportation
facility, school, place of amusement, park, playground, doorway, entrance,
lobby, or other portion of any business establishment including an apartment
house or hotel not constituting a room or apartment designed for actual
residents.
   SAVINGS AND LOAN ASSOCIATION: A federal and savings and loan association and
any "insured institution" is defined by section 401 of the national housing
act, as it may be amended, and any federal credit union as defined in section 2
of the federal credit union act, or as it may be amended.
   SOLICITATION: Any request, by words or physical gesture, made in person
seeking an immediate donation or contribution of money or other item of value.
For the purposes of this chapter, a donation also includes the purchase of an
item for an amount far exceeding its value under circumstances where a
reasonable person would understand that the purchase is a donation or
contribution. For the purposes of this chapter, solicitation includes to
solicit or beg. Solicitation, for the purposes of this chapter, does not
include a person who is soliciting by use of passive displays or a sign or
other indication that he or she is seeking donations or contributions, or when
he or she does not address the solicitation to any specific person other than
in response to an inquiry by that person. (Ord. 2014-2, 2-18-2014)
6-28-2: AGGRESSIVE OR ABUSIVE SOLICITATION PROHIBITED:
   (A)   No person shall solicit, ask, or beg in an aggressive or abusive
manner in any public place. (Ord. 2014-2, 2-18-2014)
6-28-3: ALL SOLICITATION PROHIBITED AT SPECIFIED LOCATIONS:
   (A)   Prohibited Locations: All solicitation is prohibited in the following
specified locations:
      1.   Banks and ATMs. No person shall solicit within fifty feet (50') of
any entrance or exit of any bank, savings and loan association, credit union,
check cashing business during its business hours or within fifty feet (50') of
any automated teller machine during the time it is available for customer's
use;
      2.   Bus stop, public transportation vehicle, or facility;
      3.   Parking lot or structure or any street or highway median;
      4.   A queue or line of two (2) or more persons waiting to be admitted to
a retail or commercial establishment, a place of amusement, or waiting to
purchase an item or ticket;
      5.   An outside dining area or motor vehicle drive-through lane of a
restaurant or other dining establishment serving food for immediate
consumption.
   (B)   Motor Vehicles:
      1.   Solicitation Prohibited: No person shall approach an operator or
occupant of a motor vehicle (as detailed by the California Vehicle Code) for
the purpose of soliciting while such vehicle is located in any public place.
      2.   Exemptions: Subsection (B)1 of this section shall not apply to any
of the following:
         (a)   To solicitations related to business which is being conducted on
the subject premises by the owner, lawful tenants, or other authorized person;
         (b)   Solicitations related to emergency repairs requested by the
operator or other occupant of a motor vehicle or the lawful towing of a motor
vehicle;
         (c)   Solicitations related to onetime or annual fundraising by
community groups including: 1) sales of the Annual Kids Day newspaper
benefiting Children's Hospital Of Central California; 2) annual or occasional
fundraisers by the Selma Peace Officers or Selma Firefighters Associations; or
3) any other fundraising event approved by the city manager.
   (C)   Penalty: A violation of this chapter is subject to the penalties set
forth in title I, chapter 4 of this code.
   (D)   Nonexclusive: Nothing set forth in this chapter is intended to be an
exclusive penalty or remedy and does not prohibit the application of any other
penalty or remedy available under federal, state, or local law. (Ord. 2014-2,
2-18-2014)
CHAPTER 29
SMOKING AND TOBACCO PRODUCT USE
SECTION:
6-29-1: Definitions
6-29-2: Prohibition Of Smoking And Tobacco Product Use In Unenclosed Areas
6-29-3: Reasonable Smoking Distance Required
6-29-4: Other Requirements And Prohibitions
6-29-5: Penalties And Enforcement
6-29-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following words and phrases, whenever used in this chapter shall have the
meanings defined in this section unless the context clearly requires otherwise:
   ELECTRONIC SMOKING DEVICE: Means an electronic device that can be used to
deliver an inhaled dose of nicotine, or other substances, including any
component, part, or accessory of such a device, whether or not sold separately.
"Electronic smoking device" includes any such device, whether manufactured,
distributed, marketed, or sold as an electronic cigarette, an electronic cigar,
an electronic cigarillo, an electronic pipe, an electronic hookah, or any other
product name or descriptor.
   PUBLIC PLACE: Means any place, publicly or privately owned, which is open to
the general public regardless of any fee or age requirement.
   REASONABLE DISTANCE: Means a distance of twenty five feet (25') in any
direction from an area in which smoking is prohibited.
   RECREATIONAL AREA: Means any area that is owned, controlled or used by the
City of Selma and open to the general public for recreational purposes,
regardless of any fee or age requirement. The term "recreational area" includes
but is not limited to parks, picnic areas, playgrounds, sports fields, golf
courses, walking paths, gardens, hiking trails, bike paths, riding trails,
swimming pools, roller- and ice-skating rinks, skateboard parks, amusement
parks, and beaches. The term "recreational area" shall also include Pioneer
Village.
   SMOKE: Means the gases, particles, or vapors released into the air as a
result of combustion, electrical ignition, or vaporization, when the apparent
or usual purpose of the combustion, electrical ignition, or vaporization is
human inhalation of the byproducts, except when the combusting or vaporizing
material contains no tobacco or nicotine and the purpose of inhalation is
solely olfactory, such as, for example, smoke from incense. The term "smoke"
includes, but is not limited to, tobacco smoke, electronic smoking device
vapors, cannabis smoke, and crack cocaine smoke.
   SMOKING: Means inhaling, exhaling, burning, or carrying any lighted, heated,
or ignited cigar, cigarette, cigarillo, pipe, hookah, electronic smoking
device, cannabis or any plant product intended for human inhalation.
   TOBACCO PRODUCT: Means:
   (A)   Any product containing, made, or derived from tobacco or nicotine that
is intended for human consumption, whether smoked, heated, chewed, absorbed,
dissolved, inhaled, snorted, sniffed, or ingested by any other means,
including, but not limited to cigarettes, cigars, little cigars, chewing
tobacco, pipe tobacco, snuff; and
   (B)   Any electronic smoking device.
   (C)   Notwithstanding any provision of subsections (A) and (B) of this
definition to the contrary, "tobacco product" includes any component, part, or
accessory intended or reasonably expected to be used with a tobacco product,
whether or not sold separately. "Tobacco product" does not include any product
that has been approved by the United States Food and Drug Administration for
sale as a tobacco cessation product or for other therapeutic purposes where
such product is marketed and sold solely for such an approved purpose.
   UNENCLOSED AREA: Means any area that is not an enclosed area. (Ord. 2018-6,
5-7-2018)
6-29-2: PROHIBITION OF SMOKING AND TOBACCO PRODUCT USE IN UNENCLOSED AREAS:
   (A)   Smoking and the use of tobacco products is prohibited in the
unenclosed areas of the following places within the City of Selma:
      1.   Recreational areas;
      2.   Other public places, when being used for a public event, including
but not limited to a farmers' market, parade, craft fair, festival, or any
other event open to the general public, provided that smoking is permitted on
streets and sidewalks used only as pedestrian or vehicular thoroughfares,
unless otherwise prohibited by this chapter.
   (B)   Nothing in this chapter prohibits any person, employer, or nonprofit
entity with legal control over any property from prohibiting smoking and
tobacco product use on any part of such property, even if smoking or the use of
tobacco products is not otherwise prohibited in that area. (Ord. 2018-6, 5-7-
2018)
6-29-3: REASONABLE SMOKING DISTANCE REQUIRED:
   (A)   Smoking in all unenclosed areas shall be prohibited within a
reasonable distance from any doorway, window, opening, crack, or vent into an
enclosed area in which smoking is prohibited, except while the person smoking
is actively passing on the way to another destination.
   (B)   Smoking in unenclosed areas shall be prohibited within a reasonable
distance from any unenclosed areas in which smoking is prohibited under this
chapter, except while the person smoking is actively passing on the way to
another destination and provided smoke does not enter any unenclosed area in
which smoking is prohibited. (Ord. 2018-6, 5-7-2018)
6-29-4: OTHER REQUIREMENTS AND PROHIBITIONS:
   (A)   No person, employer, or nonprofit entity shall knowingly permit
smoking or the use of tobacco products in an area which is under the legal or
de facto control of that person, employer, or nonprofit entity and in which
smoking or the use of tobacco products is prohibited by law.
   (B)   No person, employer, or nonprofit entity shall knowingly or
intentionally permit the presence or placement of ash receptacles, such as, for
example, ash trays or ash cans, within an area under the legal or de facto
control of that person, employer, or nonprofit entity and in which smoking or
the use of tobacco products is prohibited by law, including, without
limitation, within a reasonable distance required by this chapter from any area
in which smoking or the use of tobacco products is prohibited. Notwithstanding
the foregoing, the presence of ash receptacles in violation of this subsection
shall not be a defense to a charge of smoking or the use of tobacco products in
violation of any provision of this chapter.
   (C)   No person shall dispose of used smoking or tobacco product waste
within the boundaries of an area in which smoking or tobacco product use is
prohibited, including within any reasonable distance required by this chapter.
   (D)   Except as otherwise provided by subsection (E) of this section, a
person, employer, or nonprofit entity that has legal or de facto control of an
area in which smoking and the use of tobacco products is prohibited by this
chapter shall post a clear, conspicuous and unambiguous "No Smoking" and "No
Use of Tobacco Products" or "Smokefree" and "Tobacco-Free" sign at each point
of ingress to the area, and in at least one other conspicuous point within the
area, unless the prohibition is established by law other than this chapter and
that law does not require the placement of signs. The signs shall have letters
of no less than one inch (1") in height and shall include the international "No
Smoking" symbol (consisting of a pictorial representation of a burning
cigarette enclosed in a red circle with a red bar across it). Signs posted on
the exterior of buildings to comply with this section shall include the
reasonable distance requirement. At least one sign with the City of Selma phone
number to which complaints can be directed must be placed conspicuously in each
place in which smoking is prohibited. For purposes of this section, the City
Manager or his/her designee shall be responsible for the posting of signs in
regulated facilities owned or leased in whole or in part by the City.
Notwithstanding this provision, the presence or absence of signs shall not be a
defense to a charge of smoking or the use of tobacco products in violation of
any other provision of this chapter.
   (E)   The City, or other sponsor of any public event occurring in open
public places shall establish temporary signage at such locations as required
by the City Manager or his/her designee notifying persons of the prohibition
against smoking at such public event.
   (F)   No person, employer, or nonprofit entity shall intimidate, threaten
any reprisal, or effect any reprisal, for the purpose of retaliating against
another person who seeks to attain compliance with this chapter.
   (G)   Each instance of smoking or tobacco product use in violation of this
chapter shall constitute a separate violation. For violations other than for
smoking, each day of a continuing violation of this chapter shall constitute a
separate violation. (Ord. 2018-6, 5-7-2018)
6-29-5: PENALTIES AND ENFORCEMENT:
   (A)   The remedies provided by this chapter are cumulative and in addition
to any other remedies available at law or in equity.
   (B)   Each incident of smoking or use of tobacco products in violation of
this chapter is an infraction subject to a one hundred dollar ($100.00) fine.
Other violations of this chapter may, at the discretion of the City Attorney,
be prosecuted as infractions or misdemeanors when the interests of justice so
require. Enforcement of this chapter shall be the responsibility of the City
Manager or his/her designee. In addition, any peace officer or Code enforcement
official also may enforce this chapter.
   (C)   Each incident of smoking or use of tobacco products in violation of
this chapter, and the fine imposed by this chapter may be enforced by issuance
of an administrative citation under title I, chapter 20 of this Code.
   (D)   Violations of this chapter are subject to a civil action brought by
the City of Selma, punishable by a civil fine not less than two hundred fifty
dollars ($250.00) and not exceeding one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) per
violation.
   (E)   Causing, permitting, aiding, abetting, or concealing a violation of
any provision of this chapter shall also constitute a violation of this
chapter.
   (F)   Any violation of this chapter is hereby declared to be a nuisance.
   (G)   In addition to other remedies provided by this chapter or by other
law, any violation of this chapter may be remedied by a civil action brought by
the City Attorney, including, but not limited to, administrative or judicial
nuisance abatement proceedings, Civil or Criminal Code enforcement proceedings,
and suits for injunctive relief. (Ord. 2018-6, 5-7-2018)
TITLE VII
FIRE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
FIRE CODE
SECTION:
7-1-1: Adoption Of The California Fire Code
7-1-2: Amendments, Additions, Deletions, And Fee Exceptions
7-1-1: ADOPTION OF THE CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE:
Pursuant to the provisions of section 50022.2 of the Government Code and
sections 17922, 17958.5, 17958.7 and/or 18941.5 of the Health And Safety Code
of the state of California, the city council of the city of Selma does hereby
adopt by specific reference thereto and incorporation herein by said reference,
the provisions, rules and regulations specified and set forth in the 2022
Edition of the California fire code with appendices, copies of which are on
file with the city of Selma, for public record and inspection. These are hereby
adopted by said council by reference as the fire code of the city of Selma and
made a part of this chapter as though set forth in full, subject, however, to
the amendments, additions, deletions and fee exceptions as set forth in this
chapter. This code shall be designated as title VII, chapter 1, the fire code
of the city of Selma. (Ord. 2016-7, 12-5-2016; amd. Ord. 2023-2, 4-17-2023)
7-1-2: AMENDMENTS, ADDITIONS, DELETIONS, AND FEE EXCEPTIONS:
The California fire code as adopted by this chapter is amended to include the
following provisions:
   (A)   Add To Appendix Chapter 1, Section 105: Permits: The provisions for
fire permit fees and all matters relating to permits shall be as set forth in
the latest resolution approved by the city council establishing a schedule of
fees and charges, or as otherwise provided for by title VII of the municipal
code.
   (B)   Add: Violation; Penalty: Any person operating or maintaining an
occupancy, premises or vehicle subject to the California fire code, who allows
a hazard to exist or fails to take immediate action to abate the hazard on such
occupancy, premises or vehicle when ordered or notified to do so. The remedies
provided by this chapter are cumulative and in addition to any other remedies
available at law or in equity. Violations of any provision of this chapter are
subject to administrative, criminal, civil or other penalties and enforcement
pursuant to title I, chapter 4 of the municipal code.
(Ord. 2016-7, 12-5-2016)
CHAPTER 2
AUTOMATIC FIRE SPRINKLER SYSTEMS
SECTION:
7-2-1: General Requirements
7-2-2: Exceptions
7-2-1: GENERAL REQUIREMENTS:
All buildings, hereafter erected, constructed, or moved in, of five thousand
(5,000) square feet or more in floor area, and all additions to existing
buildings hereafter erected, constructed, or moved in, when the addition to the
existing building results in a total combined floor area of five thousand
(5,000) square feet or more, shall be equipped with an approved automatic fire
sprinkler system in all occupancies as defined in the 2022 Edition of the
California building code and amendments thereto, except occupancies defined in
chapter 3 of the California building code, 2022 Edition, as R-3 and U, all of
which shall conform to the regulations of the California building code, 2022
Edition. The square footage shall be determined by measurement of the exterior
wall dimensions. When an addition results in a building with total combined
square footage of five thousand (5,000) square feet or more in floor area, the
entire building, existing and addition, shall be equipped with an approved
automatic fire sprinkler system. Other construction specifications shall be
required as deemed necessary for fire protection by the building official and/
or fire chief in all buildings, regardless of size and group occupancies. An
approved automatic fire sprinkler system shall be as defined and outlined in
chapter 9 of the 2022 Edition of the California building code and all
amendments thereto. (Ord. 2016-7, 12-5-2016; amd. Ord. 2023-2, 4-17-2023)
7-2-2: EXCEPTIONS:
Where an approved automatic fire sprinkler system is provided in buildings, the
following substitutions may be approved by the building official; provided that
these exceptions shall not apply to buildings covered by title 19 of the
California administrative code:
   (A)   Occupancy separations may be reduced by one hour.
   (B)   Exterior wall protection due to the proximity of property lines may be
reduced by fifty percent (50%).
   (C)   Party walls for adjacent property may be approved by the building
official subject to the following conditions:
      1.   Both buildings are equipped with approved automatic fire
extinguishing systems.
      2.   The party wall is a minimum of a two (2) hour fire rated wall.
      3.   The area of the combined buildings is within the allowable area for
a single building.
      4.   An approved party wall agreement signed by both property owners is
recorded in the county recorder's office.
   (D)   Vertical shaft enclosures may be reduced by one hour but in no case
less than one hour in buildings three (3) or more stories in height.
   (E)   Corridor protection may be reduced to thirty (30) minute wood frame
construction with twenty (20) minute labeled assemblies on all openings.
   (F)   Fire protection for exit enclosures and exterior smokeproof enclosures
may be reduced by fifty percent (50%) but in no case to less than one hour.
   (G)   Exit courts and passageways may be constructed with thirty (30) minute
fire protection with twenty (20) minute labeled assemblies in all openings.
   (H)   Fire protection for exterior walls, floors, ceilings may be reduced by
fifty percent (50%).
   (I)   Plumbing schedule 40 ABS and PVC-DWV piping installations may be used
in those structures where combustible construction is allowed. (Ord. 2016-7,
12-5-2016)
CHAPTER 3
FIREWORKS
SECTION:
General Provisions
7-3-1: Purpose
7-3-2: Sale Of Fireworks
7-3-3: Discharge Of Fireworks
7-3-4: Applicants
7-3-5: Permits For Retail Sale Of Fireworks
7-3-6: Insurance
7-3-7: Storage
7-3-8: Revocation
Dangerous Fireworks
7-3-9: Purpose
7-3-10: Definitions
7-3-11: Ban On Dangerous Fireworks
7-3-12: Issuance Of Administrative Citation; Service Procedures
7-3-13: Issuance Of Administrative Citation; Content
7-3-14: Administrative Fines For Dangerous Fireworks
GENERAL PROVISIONS
7-3-1: PURPOSE:
The City of Selma has determined that in order to protect the health, safety
and welfare of the citizens within the City and metropolitan area, it is
necessary to regulate the sale and discharge of safe and sane fireworks. (Ord.
2021-3, 6-21-2021)
7-3-2: SALE OF FIREWORKS:
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to sell, offer for sale, or display for
sale any "safe and sane fireworks" as defined with section 12529 of the
California Health and Safety Code (hereinafter referred to as "fireworks"),
within the City of Selma and metropolitan area without first obtaining a permit
therefor from the City Manager of the City of Selma, or designee, as provided
herein.
   (B)   Fireworks may be sold within the City of Selma and metropolitan area
only from June 28 to July 4 of any year. The hours of operation of any
fireworks stand shall be limited to twelve o’clock (12:00) noon to ten o’clock
(10:00) P.M. on June 28 and nine o’clock (9:00) A.M. to ten o’clock (10:00)
P.M. daily during the other days identified above. The sale of any fireworks
shall be made strictly in accordance with the provisions of this chapter and
the laws of the State of California. (Ord. 2021-3, 6-21-2021)
7-3-3: DISCHARGE OF FIREWORKS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to fire, set off, discharge, explode, use
to, cause to, or permit to be fired, set off, discharged, exploded or used, any
fireworks within the City of Selma and metropolitan area except for that period
beginning at twelve o’clock (12:00) noon on June 28 and ending at ten o’clock
(10:00) P.M. on July 4 of any year. (Ord. 2021-3, 6-21-2021)
7-3-4: APPLICANTS:
Applicants for a City of Selma fireworks permit must satisfy the following
requirements:
   (A)   No permit shall be issued to any person, except nonprofit associations
or corporations organized primarily for civic betterment or youth activities.
   (B)   Each such organization must have its principal and permanent meeting
place in the City's sphere of influence limits; must maintain a bona fide
membership of at least ten (10) members; and, must have been organized and
established in the City's sphere of influence limits for a minimum of one year
continuously preceding the filing of the application for the permit.
   (C)   No organization may receive more than one permit for fireworks sales
during any one calendar year. One permit may be issued to two (2) or more
qualifying applicants as a joint venture. The maximum number of permits that
may be issued during any one calendar year shall be ten (10) permits, until the
City's population has increased to thirty five thousand (35,000). Once the
City's population has increased to thirty five thousand (35,000), the maximum
number of permits that may be issued during any one calendar year shall be
increased by one for each additional population increase of three thousand five
hundred (3,500) persons.
   (D)   If the number of applicants exceed the number of permits to be issued,
the permittees during the preceding year shall have first priority for the
available permits, provided each permittee retains the same participating
organizations that operated under the permit during the preceding year. Each
participating organization in a joint venture shall be deemed a co-permittee
with the same duties and liabilities under the permit. If there are any
additional permits available, such additional permits shall be granted by a
drawing supervised by the City Clerk. (Ord. 99-4, 4-19-1999; amd. Ord. 2021-3,
6-21-2021)
7-3-5: PERMITS FOR RETAIL SALE OF FIREWORKS:
All applications for a fireworks permit shall comply with the provisions of
section 12500 et seq. of the California Health and Safety Code, subchapter 6,
article V, of title 19 of the California Administration Code, and any and all
rules and regulations established by the State of California and the City of
Selma. In addition, each applicant shall be governed by the following:
   (A)   An application for a fireworks permit shall be filed with the City
Manager, or designee, between March 1 and March 31 of each year, along with
payment of a non-refundable permit fee established by resolution of the City
Council, fireworks permits are not transferable.
   (B)   The City Manager, or designee, shall issue permits. Permits denied for
failure to comply with sections
7-3-4,
7-3-5 or
7-3-6 may be appealed to the City Manager or designee, and thereafter to the
City Council.
   (C)   No fireworks permit will be granted to an applicant if the following
items are not properly and completely prepared and presented to the City
Manager, or designee, on or before March 31 of the calendar year during which
the fireworks will be sold:
      1.   State Fire Marshal's license;
      2.   Temporary seller's permit from the State Board of Equalization;
      3.   Property owner's permission form (original) signed and currently
dated;
      4.   Storage of safe and sane fireworks form;
      5.   Address of property where stand will be located;
      6.   Certificate of insurance as required by the City of Selma; and
      7.   Certification of compliance with all applicable local laws.
The City Manager, or designee, may extend the March 31 filing date if the City
Manager, or designee, determines in his or her sole discretion, that an
applicant has attempted in good faith and with due diligence to satisfy all of
the requirements in subsections (A) and:
   (D)   Of this section and that as a result of action or inaction on the part
of other persons or entities, which are beyond the applicant's control, the
applicant has been unable to satisfy the requirements of subsections (A) and
(C) within the required time periods.
   (E)   No change of stand locations will be permitted without the prior
approval of the City Manager, or designee.
   (F)   All fireworks stands must be removed on or before twelve o’clock (12:
00) noon on July 7 of each respective year provided, however, that all unsold
fireworks stock and accompanying litter shall be removed from the stand on or
before ten o’clock (10:00) P.M. on the last day.
   (G)   No person shall sell, or offer for sale, any fireworks within a
distance of one hundred feet (100') of any pump or dispensing device of any
flammable liquids.
   (H)   No fireworks stand shall be located within thirty feet (30') of any
adjacent buildings, burnable materials, grass, paper, or like flammable
materials.
   (I)   No fireworks stand shall be located closer than ten feet (10') from
any public roadway or back of curb, or in any location which does not otherwise
meet the approval of the City Manager, or designee,
   (J)   No sale or display of fireworks will be allowed inside any permanent
building.
   (K)   Each fireworks stand shall have minimum of two (2) exits which shall
be located and provided on opposite sides. Each shall be at least thirty-two
inches (32") wide. Fireworks stands with only three (3) sides and open from the
back will not require exits.
   (L)   If stands are operated at night, only electric lights may be used.
   (M)   "No Smoking" signs shall be located on all sides of the stand. Each
sign all have the words "No Smoking" in red letters, not less than two inches
(2") in height, with a minimum one and one-half inch (1-½”) stroke on a white
background.
   (N)   One approved two and one-half (2-½) gallon pressurized, water-type
fire extinguisher and/or one five (5) pound multi-purpose ABC fire extinguisher
or garden hose fully charged with shutoff nozzle attached, shall be provided in
the stand's sale area. There shall be no exceptions to this requirement. The
fire extinguisher must be in operating condition, with an up-to-date inspection
tag indicating that the fire extinguisher has be serviced within the past year.
   (O)   Fireworks signs shall not create a traffic hazard and must be approved
by the City Manager, or designee.
   (P)   All permittees shall instruct all employees and persons who handle
fireworks in any capacity, of the hazards of fireworks and with these rules and
safety precautions governing fireworks.
   (Q)   All persons selling fireworks shall be trained in emergency
procedures, including the use of fire extinguishers.
   (R)   Persons employed for the sale of fireworks shall be at least eighteen
(18) years of age. Proof must be shown at any time when requested by the City
Manager, or designee.
   (S)   No person under sixteen (16) years of age shall purchase fireworks.
   (T)   No sleeping inside the fireworks stand will be permitted at any time.
   (U)   The stand and surrounding area shall be maintained in a clean, neat
and orderly condition at all times and be free from any condition that would
create a "fire nuisance."
   (V)   No person shall use or handle fireworks while under the influence of
intoxicating liquids or narcotics. Alcohol and narcotics are prohibited within
the fireworks stands.
   (W)   Smoking shall be prohibited where fireworks are stored or handled.
   (X)   No person, other than a member of the organization or a volunteer who
is associated with the organization having a permit, shall be permitted to sell
or to otherwise participate in the sale of fireworks.
   (Y)   No permit issued or authorized shall be transferable or assignable.
   (Z)   No person shall light, or cause to be lighted, any fireworks or other
combustible article within any stand or within two hundred feet (200') thereof.
   (AA)   The applicant's State license, City fireworks permit, and temporary
sales permit issued by the State Board of Equalization shall be displayed in a
prominent place in the fireworks stand. (Ord. 2021-3, 6-21-2021)
7-3-6: INSURANCE:
Prior to the issuance of a permit, the eligible organization shall procure a
certificate of insurance acceptable to the City of Selma. The certificate shall
name the City of Selma, its officers, agents and employees as additional
insureds in an amount of not less than one million dollars ($1,000,000.00)
combined bodily injury and property damage for each occurrence. The certificate
must specify the time, location and dates to be covered by the policy. (Ord.
2021-3, 6-21-2021)
7-3-7: STORAGE:
Safe and sane fireworks may be stored within the City pursuant to the following
provisions:
   (A)   Buildings or parts of buildings used for storage shall meet the zoning
requirements of the County and a permit to store shall be issued by the County.
   (B)   Signs with the wording "Fireworks - No Smoking", in letters a minimum
of four inches (4") high, shall be conspicuously located throughout the
building.
   (C)   Fire extinguishers, of the water pressure type, shall be located so
there is not more than fifty feet (50') of travel to any fireworks storage.
   (D)   Stacks of merchandise shall be limited in size to twelve thousand
(12,000) cubic feet, and each stack shall be separated from other stacks by
eight feet (8') wide aisles. (Ord. 99-4, 4-19-1999; amd. Ord. 2021-3, 6-21-
2021)
7-3-8: REVOCATION:
Any violation of these provisions, or any other City ordinance, or the terms
and conditions of the permit, of state law or administrative regulations, or
safety rules of the City Manager, or designee, shall be grounds for immediate
revocation of the permit. Any such violation shall be determined in the sole
discretion of the City Manager, or designee. The decision of the City Manager,
or designee, with regards to revocation may be appealed consistent with Selma
City Code section 1-20-1 et seq. (Ord. 2021-3, 6-21-2021)
DANGEROUS FIREWORKS
7-3-9: PURPOSE:
   (A)   This section authorizes the imposition of administrative fines on any
person who violates any provision of this article in order to encourage and
obtain compliance with the provisions of this article for the benefit and
protection of the entire community. This article governs the imposition,
enforcement, collection and administrative review of all administrative fines,
related to: the possession, use, storage, sale and/or display of those
fireworks classified as "dangerous fireworks" with the exception of a
pyrotechnic licensee when operating pursuant to that license; and the use of
"safe and sane fireworks" as defined in California Health and Safety Code
section 12500, et seq. Said administrative fines are imposed under authority of
Government Code section 53069.4, Health and Safety Code section 12557, the
police power of the City, and pursuant to California Attorney General Opinion
(No. 07-503, December 20, 2011).
   (B)   The issuance of citations imposing administrative fines may be
performed at the discretion of the officials of the City authorized hereunder;
and the issuance of a citation to any person constitutes but one remedy of the
City to redress violations of this article by any person. By adopting this
article, the City does not intend to limit its authority to employ any other
remedy, civil, or criminal, to redress any violation of this article by any
person, which this City may otherwise pursue. (Ord. 2021-3, 6-21-2021)
7-3-10: DEFINITIONS:
The following definitions apply to the use of these terms for the purposes of
this article:
DANGEROUS FIREWORKS: As defined in California Health and Safety Code sections
12505, includes the following:
   1.   Any fireworks which contain any of the following:
      (a)   Arsenic sulfide, arsenates, or arenites.
      (b)   Boron.
      (c)   Chlorates, except:
         (1)   In colored smoke mixture in which an equal or greater amount of
sodium bicarbonate is included.
         (2)   In caps and party poppers.
         (3)   In those small items (such as ground spinners) wherein the total
powder content does not exceed four grams of which not greater than fifteen
percent (15%) (or six hundred (600) milligrams) is potassium, sodium, or barium
chlorate.
      (d)   Gallates or gallic acid.
      (e)   Magnesium (magnesium-aluminum alloys, called magnalium, are
permitted).
      (f)   Mercury salts.
      (g)   Phosphorous (red or white except that red phosphorus is permissible
in caps and party poppers).
      (h)   Picrates or picric acid.
      (i)   Thiocyanates.
      (j)   Titanium, except in particle size greater than 100-mesh.
      (k)   Zirconium.
   2.   Firecrackers.
   3.   Skyrockets and rockets, including all devices which employ any
combustible or explosive material and which rise in the air during discharge.
   4.   Roman candles, including all devices which discharge balls of fire into
the air.
   5.   Chasers, including all devices which dart or travel about the surface
of the ground during discharge.
   6.   Sparklers more than ten inches (10") in length or one-fourth of one
inch (1/4") in diameter.
   7.   All fireworks designed and intended by the manufacturer to create the
element of surprise upon the user. These items include, but are not limited to,
auto-foolers, cigarette loads, exploding golf balls, and trick matches.
   8.   Fireworks known as devil-on-the-walk, or any other firework which
explodes through means of friction, unless otherwise classified by the State
Fire Marshal pursuant to this part.
   9.   Torpedoes of all kinds which explode on impact.
   10.   Fireworks kits.
   11.   Such other fireworks examined and tested by the State Fire Marshal and
determined by him, with the advice of the State Board of Fire Services, to
possess characteristics of design or construction which make such fireworks
unsafe for use by any person not specially qualified or trained in the use of
fireworks.
CITATION: An administrative citation issued pursuant to this article to remedy
a violation.
CITEE: Any person served with an administrative citation charging him or her as
a responsible person for violation.
CODE: The Selma City or Municipal Code.
CODE ENFORCEMENT OFFICER (CEO): Shall include, but not be limited to, the Selma
City Fire Chief, Fire Marshal, Police Chief, or their agents, designees or
assigns designated to enforce any provision of this article.
PERSON: A natural person or a legal entity that is also an owner, tenant,
lessee and/or other person with any right to possession or control of the
property where a violation of this article occurred.
RESPONSIBLE PERSON:
   1.   The person(s) who owns, rents, leases, or otherwise has possession of
the residence or other private property;
   2.   The person(s) in immediate control of the residence or other private
property; and
   3.   The person(s) who organizes, supervises, sponsors, conducts, allows,
controls, or controls access to the illegal discharge or illegal storage of
fireworks.
   4.   Every parent, guardian or other person, having the legal care, custody
or control of any person under the age of eighteen (18) years may be issued a
citation in accordance with the provisions of this article, in addition to any
citation that may be issued to the offending minor.
VIOLATION or VIOLATES: Refers to any violation of any provision of this
article, and/or the failure to comply with any additional requirement imposed
under California Health and Safety Code sections 12500, et seq. (Ord. 2021-3,
6-21-2021)
7-3-11: BAN ON DANGEROUS FIREWORKS:
   (A)   The City of Selma hereby prohibits the possession, use, storage sale,
display, giving, delivery, and/or transporting of twenty five (25) pounds or
less of "dangerous fireworks" in all zones in the City; with the exception of:
      1.   A pyrotechnic licensee operating pursuant to a valid City or state
issued license;
      2.   Or the use of "safe and sane fireworks" as defined in this article
and Health and Safety Code section 12500 et seq.
   (B)   Because of the serious threat of fire or injury posed by the use of
"dangerous fireworks" that can result from persistent or repeated failures to
comply with the provision of this article and the effect of such conditions or
activities on the safety and the use and enjoyment of surrounding properties
and to the public health, safety and welfare, this section imposes strict civil
liability upon the owners of residential real property for all violation of
this article existing on their residential real property. Each contiguous use,
display and/or possession shall constitute a separate violation and shall be
subject to a separate administrative fine. (Ord. 2021-3, 6-21-2021)
7-3-12: ISSUANCE OF ADMINISTRATIVE CITATION; SERVICE PROCEDURES:
Upon determining that a violation exists with respect to any property within
the incorporated area of the City, the code enforcement officer shall serve an
administrative citation upon one or more of the responsible persons. Service
shall be completed utilizing one of the below methods of service:
   (A)   Service: An administrative citation shall be served on the responsible
person by an enforcement officer in one of the following ways:
      1.   Personal Service: In any case where an administrative citation has
been issued, the enforcement officer may personally serve the responsible
person and obtain the signature of the responsible person on the administrative
citation. If personal service is affected, but the responsible person served
refuses or fails to sign the administrative citation, the failure or refusal to
sign shall not affect the validity of the service of the administrative
citation or of any of the subsequent proceedings. The enforcement officer shall
note on the administrative citation the failure or refusal of the responsible
person to sign the citation. The date of service under this subsection shall be
the date of actual service.
      2.   Service Of Citation By Mail: As an alternative to personal service,
the enforcement officer may serve the administrative citation by mail as
hereinafter set forth. The administrative citation shall be mailed to the
responsible person by certified mail, postage prepaid with a return receipt
requested. Simultaneously, the citation may be sent by first class mail. If the
citation is sent by certified mail and returned unsigned, then service shall be
deemed effective pursuant to first class mail, provided the citation sent by
first class mail is not returned by the United States Postal Service
undelivered. In the case of service by certified mail for which a signed
receipt is returned, the date of service shall be the date of signing of the
receipt. In the case of service by regular first-class mail, the date of
service shall be the date upon which such mail was deposited in the United
State Mail with postage prepaid, plus three (3) days.
      3.   Service Of Citation By Posting Notice: If the enforcement officer
does not succeed in serving the responsible person by personal service or by
mail as set forth above, the enforcement officer shall post the administrative
citation on any real property within the City in which the City has knowledge
that the responsible person has a legal interest, and such posting shall be
deemed effective service. The date of service of a posted notice or citation
shall be the date of actual posting, plus five (5) days.
      4.   The form of the administrative citation shall be approved by the
City Council.
   (B)   Administrative citations issued pursuant to this section shall be
considered citations issued to correct immediate dangers to health and/or
safety concerns of the City. Pursuant to this article, a citee shall not be
provided a notice of violation, or given a chance to abate the violation, prior
to issuance of an administrative citation. (Ord. 2021-3, 6-21-2021)
7-3-13: ISSUANCE OF ADMINISTRATIVE CITATION; CONTENT:
   (A)   Content: Each administrative citation may contain the following
information:
      1.   Date, approximate time, and address or definite description of the
location where the violation was observed;
      2.   The Code sections or provisions violated and a description of the
violation;
      3.   The date the notice of violation was served on the responsible
person and the time specified thereon to correct the violation;
      4.   A statement that the violation has not been corrected within a given
correction period, if any;
      5.   The amount of the fine;
      6.   An explanation of how and where the fine may be paid and the time
period within which it must be paid;
      7.   Consistent with Selma City Code section
1-20-1 et seq. an explanation of rights of appeal, including the time within
which the citation may be contested and the place to obtain a notice of appeal
form to contest the administrative citation; and
      8.   The name and signature of the enforcement officer and, if possible,
the signature of the responsible person;
      9.   The amount of the administrative fine for each violation, the
procedure in place to pay the fines, and any late fee and interest charge(s),
if not timely paid, and notice that if the City is required to take action to
collect such fines, the responsible person may be charged costs and attorney's
fees;
      10.   Any other information deemed necessary by the director for
enforcement or collection purposes.
      11.   In the event that the Selma Police Department is the issuing agency
for a violation of this chapter, a crime report will be submitted along with
the citation. (Ord. 2021-3, 6-21-2021)
7-3-14: ADMINISTRATIVE FINES FOR DANGEROUS FIREWORKS:
   (A)   Each person who violates any provision of this article as it relates
to "dangerous fireworks" shall be subject to the imposition and payment of an
administrative fine(s) as provided below:
 
Number of offense in Amount of              Late charge Total amount of penalty
1-year period        administrative penalty             plus late charge
First                $1,000.00              $100.00     $1,100.00
Second               $1,500.00              $200.00     $1,700.00
Third                $2,000.00              $300.00     $2,300.00
 
   (B)   In the case of a violation of any of the provisions listed above, the
administrative fine(s) shall be due and payable within thirty (30) calendar
days from the issuance of the administrative fine citation, and the citee shall
be required to abate the violation, and surrender all dangerous fireworks to
the City, immediately. For penalties not paid in full within that time, a late
charge in the amount set forth above is hereby imposed and must be paid to the
City by the citee.
   (C)   On the second and each subsequent time that a person is issued a
citation for the same violation in any twelve (12) month period, the fine is
increased as indicated in section
7-3-13(A) and the citee shall be liable for the amount of the new fine until it
is paid, in addition to being responsible for payment of previous fines.
   (D)   Upon confirmation of the citation or when the citation is deemed
confirmed, either by exhaustion of administrative remedies or by the citee's
own admission, all unpaid administrative fines, late fees and/or interest shall
constitute a judgment which may be collected in any manner allowed by law for
collection of judgments including but not limited to recordation to create a
lien on any real property owned by the responsible person. The City shall be
entitled to recover its attorney's fees and costs incurred in collecting any
administrative fines, late charges and/or interest.
   (E)   Payment of the administrative fine shall not excuse or discharge a
citee from the duty to immediately abate and correct violations of this
article, nor from any other responsibility or legal consequences for a
continuation or the repeated violations of this article. (Ord. 2021-3, 6-21-
2021)
CHAPTER 4
SMOKING IN THEATERS
(Rep. by Ord. 2001-8, 11-19-2001)
CHAPTER 5
GASOLINE SERVICE PUMPS
SECTION:
7-5-1: Construction of Pumps; Approval Required
7-5-1: CONSTRUCTION OF PUMPS; APPROVAL REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to construct, install or replace any
gasoline or distillate service pump, or any gasoline or distillate storage
tank, upon any public street or alley within the City, or upon any property of
the City without the consent and approval of the Council. (Ord. 255; 11-21-27)
CHAPTER 6
TRANSPORTATION AND HANDLING OF EXPLOSIVES
SECTION:
7-6-1: Definitions
7-6-2: Unlawful Transfer of Explosives
7-6-3: Vehicle to be Attended at all Times
7-6-4: Parking of Vehicles
7-6-5: Markers to be Placed
7-6-6: Unlawful to Drive Near Fire
7-6-7: Smoking Prohibited
7-6-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this Chapter the term "Vehicle" shall mean any conveyance of
any type whatsoever operated upon the streets or highways within the Corporate
Limits, which is marked or which is required to be marked, with any of the
following markings:
      EXPLOSIVES
      DANGEROUS
      COMPRESSED GAS
      DANGEROUS - RADIO-ACTIVE MATERIAL
      POISON GAS
7-6-2: UNLAWFUL TRANSFER OF EXPLOSIVES:
No explosives, poisons, acids or gases, of which the vehicle transporting the
same is required to bear the markings mentioned in Section
7-6-1 hereof, may be transferred from one (1) vehicle to another except in case
of breakdown or collision, and then only after notifying, and under the
supervision of the Police Department; provided, however, this Section shall not
be so construed so as to prohibit the transfer, pickup or delivery of articles
or materials, the storage of which is permitted.
7-6-3: VEHICLE TO BE ATTENDED AT ALL TIMES:
No loaded vehicle, except vehicles operated in delivery service under the
provisions of Section
7-6-2 hereof, shall be left unattended at any time within the Corporate Limits.
7-6-4: PARKING OF VEHICLES:
No vehicle shall be parked or left standing upon the traveled portion of any
street or highway. In the event conditions make it impracticable to move the
vehicle from the traveled portion of the street or highway, the vehicle shall
be parked so as to leave all possible width of the street or highway opposite
the vehicle for free passage of other conveyances and so as to provide a clear
view of the standing vehicle for as far as possible to the front and the rear.
7-6-5: MARKERS TO BE PLACED:
Whenever any motor vehicle is disabled upon any street or highway, the driver,
or other person in attendance of the vehicle, or both, shall immediately place
on the traffic side of the disabled vehicle, so as to give warning of danger, a
lighted red electric lantern, or a red emergency reflector, or, during the time
of day when lights are not required, red flags. If the vehicle contains
explosives, combustible liquid or gas, no signal producing a flame or arc shall
be used.
7-6-6: UNLAWFUL TO DRIVE NEAR FIRE:
No vehicle shall be driven past any open fire burning at or near any street or
highway.
7-6-7: SMOKING PROHIBITED:
No person shall smoke in, on, or around any such vehicle. (1963 Code)
CHAPTER 7
PROHIBITED BURNING
SECTION:
7-7-1: Burning Prohibited
7-7-1: BURNING PROHIBITED:
No person shall cause, allow, aid, suffer or maintain any open burning of any
kind or the burning of any waste materials or rubbish in any incinerator,
barrel, can, pit, fireplace or similar container or enclosure. No person in
charge or possession of any premises upon which such burning occurs, or any
premises immediately adjacent to any public place upon which such burning
occurs, shall fail to extinguish the fire, providing he has knowledge of the
fire and it is within his power to extinguish it.
   EXCEPTIONS: This Section shall not apply to the following:
   (A)   An indoor or outdoor barbecue or similar heating or cooking device
while being used for the heating or cooking of food for human consumption and
not being used primarily for the burning of waste materials or rubbish.
   (B)   A pathological-type incinerator or furnace used by a hospital,
veterinary hospital, crematorium or similar establishment for the incinerator
of body parts, bandages or related refuse.
   (C)   Comfort heating by use of a fireplace inside of a residence that is
not being used primarily for the burning of waste materials or rubbish.
   (D)   The personal use of cigarettes, cigars, or pipes.
   (E)   The using of matches for the lighting of authorized fire or fire fed
devices.
   (F)   The use of authorized lighting and heating devices such as candles,
water heaters and lanterns provided they are not likely to cause air pollution
or create fire hazards.
   (G)   Controlled fires for the purpose of training firefighters.
   (H)   When the material to be burned originates as the result of an
agricultural operation and originates on and is being burned on premises
constituting a separate parcel of land under one ownership of a gross size of
five (5) acres or more. Before any such burning shall take place a permit must
be obtained from the Selma Fire Chief specifying the time when said burning
will be permitted.
   (I)   No exceptions from this Section shall authorize or permit any act or
condition which is prohibited by the California Health and Safety Code Sections
24198 through 24323 (relating to Air Pollution Control Districts) or the rules
or regulations of any Air Pollution Control District established pursuant
thereto. (Ord. 670; 3-16-70; Eff. 4-16-70)
CHAPTER 8
FIRE DEPARTMENT SERVICE FEES AND COSTS
SECTION:
7-8-1: Short Title
7-8-2: Purpose And Intent
7-8-3: Fee Schedule Adoption
7-8-4: Fee Schedule
7-8-1: SHORT TITLE:
This chapter shall be known as the FEES FOR FIRE DEPARTMENT SERVICES AND COSTS
ORDINANCE and shall be so cited. (Ord. 2009-6, 7-27-2009)
7-8-2: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
It is the purpose and the intent of this chapter to establish fees to cover the
cost of services which the city of Selma fire department provides related to
motor vehicle accidents, collisions, motor vehicle fires, motor vehicle
extrications, and hazardous materials spills or discharge. (Ord. 2009-6, 7-27-
2009)
7-8-3: FEE SCHEDULE ADOPTION:
The city council shall adopt and amend, from time to time, a schedule of fees
as described in this chapter by resolution. (Ord. 2009-6, 7-27-2009)
7-8-4: FEE SCHEDULE:
Fees to cover the costs of services provided by this chapter are as follows:
   (A)   Motor Vehicle Accidents, Fires, And Extrications: The following fees
shall be charged for recovery of costs associated with motor vehicle accidents,
motor vehicle fires, and extrications:
      1.   Fees Charged: The fee for services provided by the city of Selma
fire department in connection with response to motor vehicle accidents,
collisions, motor vehicle fires, and extrications shall be determined on a case
by case basis by the fire chief, his/her designee or third party billing
service, in an amount not to exceed the amount reasonably borne by the city to
provide such services, including, but not limited to, reasonable costs of
collecting said fees, including reasonable attorney fees. Said fees shall be
charged according to the usual, customary and reasonable fees as set by a
schedule of fees adopted by resolution of the city council of the city of Selma
which may, from time to time, be amended by resolution of the city council of
the city of Selma. The fee shall not be charged to any person who is a resident
of the city of Selma.
   (B)   Hazardous Materials: The following fees shall be charged by the city
of Selma fire department for the following services:
      1.   Hazardous materials mitigation and/or cleanup shall be determined on
a case by case basis by the fire chief, his/her designee or third party billing
service in an amount not to exceed the amount reasonably borne by the city to
provide such services outside the city limits of the city of Selma, including,
but not limited to, reasonable costs of collecting said fees, including
reasonable attorney fees. The term "hazardous materials" shall have the same
meaning as the term "hazardous waste" as defined by the California department
of health pursuant to Health and Safety Code section 25141. Said fees shall be
charged at the usual, customary and reasonable rate as set by a schedule of
fees adopted by resolution of the city council of the city of Selma which may
be amended, from time to time, by resolution of the city council. The fee shall
not be charged to any person who is a resident of the city of Selma.
   (C)   Persons Subject To Charges: The foregoing fees shall be charged, as
determined by the fire chief or his or her designee or third party billing
service to any person or persons whose negligent or wilful act is the cause of
any motor vehicle fire, motor vehicle accident or collision or technical rescue
and to any person or persons who is the owner of, or has custody and control
over any vehicle involved in a motor vehicle fire, motor vehicle accident or
collision and to any person, regardless of fault, responsible for the release
or discharge of any hazardous materials.
   (D)   Nonexclusive Remedies: Nothing in this chapter precludes the city of
Selma from using any other available method to recover fees or costs as
described in this chapter by any other means available at law. (Ord. 2009-6, 7-
27-2009)
TITLE VIII
HEALTH AND SANITATION
CHAPTER 1
GARBAGE REGULATIONS
SECTION:
8-1-1: Definitions
8-1-2: Regulations For Accumulation
8-1-3: Transportation
8-1-4: Rates For Collection
8-1-5: Vehicle Regulations
8-1-6: Burying Refuse
8-1-7: Emergency Removal
8-1-8: Mandatory Service; Unauthorized Disposal Of Solid Waste Prohibited
8-1-9: City Manager; Powers
8-1-10: Enforcement; Interference
8-1-11: Contract
8-1-12: Trash Enclosures
8-1-13: Recycling Containers For Multi-Family Residences, Apartment Buildings
And Mobile Home Parks
8-1-14: Separate Containers For Street/Parking Lot Sweepers
8-1-15: Use Of Container Provided By Contract Agent, Licensed Contractor Or
Property Owner
8-1-16: Portable Restroom To Be Provided By Contract Agent, Licensed Contractor
Or Property Owner
8-1-17: Penalty For Violations
8-1-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following words and terms shall have the
meanings ascribed to them, unless the content makes such meaning repugnant
thereto:
   COMPOSTING: The controlled or uncontrolled biological decomposition of
organic constituents (including by anaerobic digestion equipment).
   CONSTRUCTION AND DEMOLITION DEBRIS: Used or discarded construction materials
removed from a premises or property during the construction, renovation, or
razing of a structure, including both recyclable and nonrecyclable materials.
   CONTRACT AGENT: An agent or employee of the city, or any person thereof with
whom the city shall have duly contracted, under the terms hereinafter set out
in the provisions of this chapter, and under the provision of the laws of the
state, with amendments thereto, to collect, transport through the streets,
alleys or public ways of the city, and dispose of and/or recycle organics,
solid waste, and/or dry recyclables produced within the corporate limits, and
shall also mean "refuse collector" or "contractor".
   DEVELOPMENT PROJECT: For the purposes of this chapter, "development project"
shall mean the following:
   (A)   All new commercial, industrial or institutional building for which a
building permit is required.
   (B)   All new single-family residential project, consisting of five (5) or
more units, which share a common area for collecting and loading solid waste.
   (C)   All new multiple-family residential projects which share a common area
for collecting and loading solid waste.
   (D)   All new public facilities where areas for collecting and loading solid
waste are provided.
   (E)   All existing commercial, industrial or institutional buildings which
add thirty percent (30%) or more to the existing floor area and require a
building permit.
   DISABLED CUSTOMER: Anyone who has applied at city hall for a discount, has
provided adequate documentation and has been determined by the city manager or
the city manager's designee as meeting one or more of the following criteria:
   (A)   Has been found to be handicapped by the California department of motor
vehicles; or
   (B)   Has been found to be totally and permanently disabled by the social
security administration under any of their programs including, but not limited
to, the social security disability insurance program under title II of the
social security act and including, but not limited to, the supplemental
security income program under title XVI of the social security act; or
   (C)   Has been found to have at least a fifty percent (50%) disability under
the workers' compensation insurance act; or
   (D)   Has been determined to be disabled by any branch of the military or
the veterans' administration; or
   (E)   The city manager or his designee has determined that the individual is
disabled based on the statement of a licensed physician.
   DISPOSAL SITE: The solid waste facility or facilities selected by the
contractor for the ultimate disposal (by contractor) of solid waste collected
by the contractor. The Avenal Landfill shall be the initial disposal site.
   FOOD WASTE: Organic consumer food materials that are separated, set aside,
handled, packaged or offered for collection by the waste generator in a manner
different from solid waste, and includes, without limitation, fruits,
vegetables, meat, seafood, small bones, dairy, eggs, breads, pastas, sauces,
cooking oil, grease, tea bags, coffee grounds and filters, and other related
materials.
   GARBAGE: Putrescible animal, fish, food, fowl, fruit or vegetable matter
(excluding green waste), or any portion thereof, resulting from the
preparation, storage, handling or consumption of such substances.
   GREEN WASTE: Untreated and unpainted wood, prunings, brush, leaves, or grass
clippings, Christmas trees and such other types of waste that may be specified
by the city in its reasonable discretion for collection and processing.
   INCINERATOR: Fireproof receptacles to be used for disposing of combustible
solid waste on private premises.
   MATERIAL RECOVERY FACILITY (MRF): Any plant or site used for the purpose of
sorting, cleansing, treating or reconstituting recyclable materials and
returning them to the economy.
   ORGANICS: Green waste and food waste.
   PUBLIC FACILITY: Any facility which is owned by a public agency.
   RECYCLABLE MATERIALS: Domestic, commercial or industrial byproducts of
economic value separated, set aside, handled, packaged or offered for
collection by the waste generator in a manner different from solid waste and
specifically includes, but is not limited to, glass, paper, plastic, metal,
construction and demolition debris that is recyclable, food waste and green
waste.
   RECYCLING AREA: The space provided in a trash enclosure for the collecting
and loading of recyclable materials.
   RECYCLING STATION: Any property and/or facility that the city shall
designate at any time to be used for the recycling of any or all dry
recyclables that may accumulate within the city.
   RUBBISH: Paper (other than newspaper), pasteboard, carpets, rags, clothing,
books, straw, packing, barrels, boxes, oily rags, oily waste, furniture,
sawdust, shavings, old tires, boots, shoes, leathers, yard scrapings, broken
crockery, broken brick, tin vessels, ashes, natural soil, street sweepings,
earth, stone, and all other similar articles of any kind or character
considered as waste or rejected by the owners thereof, but shall not include
brick, mortar or other debris incident to the construction or demolition of
buildings.
   SENIOR: Anyone who has applied at City Hall for a discount and has been
determined by the City Manager or the City Manager's designee as having reached
sixty (60) years of age or older. The applicant shall have the responsibility
of adequately documenting that he or she meets the terms of this definition.
   SOLID WASTE: All putrescible and nonputrescible solid, semisolid and liquid
waste accumulated or delivered for collection and disposal within the City and
includes, but is not limited to, garbage, construction debris, demolition
debris, rubbish, and bulky waste. Solid waste does not include hazardous waste
or household hazardous waste, designated waste, infectious waste, recyclable
materials when recycled, sewage, or abandoned automobiles.
   WASTE GENERATOR: The owner or occupant of premises, including businesses,
which initially produce solid waste.
   WET GARBAGE: All animal and vegetable refuse and household waste or material
or matter prepared or intended in part or in whole to be used for food. (Ord.
2014-3, 3-3-2014)
8-1-2: REGULATIONS FOR ACCUMULATION:
It shall be unlawful for any person to deposit, keep, accumulate or permit,
cause or suffer any solid waste to be deposited, kept or accumulated upon any
lot or parcel of land, or on any public or private place, street, lane, alley
or drive, unless the same shall be kept, deposited or allowed to accumulate as
hereinafter provided.
   (A)   Solid Waste: It shall be unlawful for any person to keep, accumulate
or permit to be kept or accumulated any solid waste upon any lot, or parcel of
land, or on any public or private place, street, lane, alley or drive, unless
the same shall be kept in a suitable container. A "suitable container" shall
meet one of the following criteria:
      1.   Either it shall be a container having a capacity of not less than
five (5) gallons, and not to exceed thirty (30) gallons, said receptacles to be
provided with a close fitting lid or cover, which shall be kept closed at all
times, except when necessarily opened to permit solid waste to be taken
therefrom or deposited therein; or
      2.   If the City Council by resolution shall adopt a policy of pursuing
the automated collections of solid waste, it shall be a container which is
either provided for the purpose by the contract agent or a container which has
been approved in advance by the contract agent.
   (B)   Placement Of Receptacles On Streets/In Alleys: Waste containers shall
be stored at a location on the premises no closer to public rights-of-way,
including but not limited to any street or alley, than the applicable
structural setback line(s) set forth in the zoning ordinance of the City; and
shall be visually screened from the adjacent streets, alleys and premises.
Containers shall be placed for collection on the street side of the curb, or in
the alley no sooner than five o'clock (5:00) A.M. on the scheduled day of
collection and shall be returned from the collection location to the storage
location no later than ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. on the scheduled day of
collection.
   (C)   Misplacement Of Solid Waste Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any
person to throw, dump, place or deposit, or cause to be thrown, dumped, placed
or deposited any solid waste upon the premises or property of another, with the
intent to thereby dispose of such solid waste.
   (D)   Consented Misplacement Of Solid Waste Prohibited: It shall be unlawful
for any person to consent to any other person dumping, placing, or depositing
upon the premises of the person giving such consent, of any such solid waste
with the intention that the same will thereby be discarded and disposed of.
   (E)   Recycling Program And Organics Pick Up Program: Notwithstanding any
other provision of this chapter, it shall be appropriate, and mandatory, for
any person to participate in either the Recycling Program or the separate
Organics Pick Up facilitated by and through the City and the contract agent.
The provisions of the programs shall be as follows:
      1.   The collection of dry recyclables shall be by a service schedule
separate from those for the pickup of solid waste and organics;
      2.   The Recycling Program shall commence on July 1, 1992;
      3.   Individual and unusual problems presented by any customer shall be
considered by the contract agent, including parking conflicts, with the
provision of the service;
      4.   The Organics Pick Up Program shall commence on July 1, 2017.
   (F)   Administrative Citation: The City retains the right to issue citations
and levy a fine, the amount of which is determined by resolution, or by this
Code, against any person who fails to comply with any provision of this
chapter, including but not limited to the following provisions:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any person utilizing the Organics Pick Up
Program, to fail to sort the organics from solid waste and dry recyclables, and
unlawful to fail to put the organics in the separate container provided for
such purpose by the contract agent;
      2.   It shall be unlawful for any person utilizing the Recycling Pick Up
Program to fail to separate the dry recyclables from solid waste and organics,
and it shall be unlawful to fail to use the container provided for such purpose
by the contract agent;
      3.   Any waste generator that chooses not to participate in the Recycling
Program shall provide, individually, for the recycling of his own dry
recyclables by transporting them personally (or by his or her employee) to an
authorized recycling station, selling them to a third party for a net payment
to such waste generator, or by donating them to a youth, civic or charitable
organization, but he shall not, in any event, discard into the City's waste
stream what would have been dry recyclables, as if they were non-recyclable
solid waste;
      4.   Except for the contract agent and its officers, agents and
employees, it shall be unlawful for any person to pick up, collect, take,
appropriate, or remove any solid waste, organics or dry recyclables from any
container after it has been placed at the collection point by the customer or
resident or placed into any receptacle maintained by any multi-family
residence, apartment building, mobile home park, motel, hotel, assisted living
facility, restaurant or other place of business, or industry within the City.
The above mentioned premises and property refers to that contained within the
corporate limits of the City.
It shall be unlawful for any person to place, put, deposit or burn any solid
waste, or cause the same to be placed, put, deposited or burned in or upon any
public street, park, lane, place or alley in the City. (Ord. 2017-1, 6-19-2017)
8-1-3: TRANSPORTATION:
   (A)   Solid Waste Transportation: No solid waste shall be removed and
carried on and along the streets and alleys of the City, except by the City or
its contractor. Solid waste shall be carried, conveyed or hauled in conveyances
so constructed as to be dustproof and so arranged that it is impossible for the
contents of such conveyances to sift through or fall upon the streets and
alleys. The contents of such conveyances must be further protected so as to
prevent the same from being blown upon the streets, alleys or adjacent lands.
All solid waste accumulated at any private lot or parcel of land, private
residence or dwelling, or at any store, shop, restaurant, hotel, cafe,
apartment house, tenement, boarding house, school, and at any other place in
the City where solid waste accumulates, shall be removed by the City at regular
intervals of not less than once a week unless otherwise directed by the City
Manager or the City Manager's designee.
   (B)   City Manager Directs Removal: It shall be the duty of the contractor,
when directed by the City Manager or the City Manager's designee, to
immediately call at any premises in the City to which the contractor may be
directed by the City Manager or the City Manager's designee, and where solid
waste, organics, or dry recyclables are accumulated and there collect and
remove such solid waste, organics, or dry recyclables in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   Organics Transportation: Under the Organics Pick Up Program, once the
organics is placed at curbside or other collection point by a residential
customer for collection under the provisions of this chapter or is placed into
a bin or other container provided by the contract agent to any apartment
building, mobile home park, motel, hotel, assisted living facility, restaurant,
or other place of business or industry within the City, it shall be unlawful
for any person other than the contract agent and its officers, agents and
employees, to pick up, collect, take, appropriate, or remove any organics
materials from any such container. If any person shall opt not to participate
in the Organics Pick Up Program provided by and between the City and the
contract agent, nothing shall prevent that individual from removing and
carrying organics to a legally designated recycling station.
   (D)   Dry Recyclables Transportation: Under the Dry Recyclables Pick Up
Program, once the dry recyclables are placed into a container at the curbside
or other collection point by a residential customer, or have been placed into a
bin or other container provided for that purpose by the contract agent to any
apartment building, mobile home park, motel, hotel, assisted living facility,
restaurant or other place of business or industry within the city, it shall be
unlawful for any person other than the contract agent, its officers, agents and
employees, to pick up, collect, take, appropriate or remove any dry recyclables
from any such container. If any person shall choose to provide for recycling
individually rather than participate in the recycling program provided by and
between the city and the contract agent, nothing herein shall prevent any such
person from removing and carrying such dry recyclables to a legally designated
recycling station. (Ord. 2014-3, 3-3-2014)
8-1-4: RATES FOR COLLECTION:
For the service of collection and disposal of all solid waste, organics and dry
recyclables as herein referred to, but not including dead animals, or refuse
from the construction or demolition or alteration of buildings, the rates to be
charged by the city, or any contractor to whom a contract is awarded for such
purpose shall be established by resolution of the city council. (Ord. 2014-3,
3-3-2014)
8-1-5: VEHICLE REGULATIONS:
Every truck used in the collection and removal of solid waste, organics, and/or
dry recyclables, shall be kept well painted, and clean inside and out. The city
reserves the right to require contractors to weigh, at public scales, all of
its loaded trucks carrying refuse, solid waste, organics and/or dry
recyclables, originating within the corporate limits for a period not exceeding
ten (10) days in one year, at the city's expense. (Ord. 2014-3, 3-3-2014)
8-1-6: BURYING REFUSE:
It shall be unlawful to deposit or bury any solid waste within the city limits;
provided, however, that rubbish and waste matter may be made use of when
leveled and properly covered, on written permission of the city manager or the
city manager's designee for the filling of low lots within the city limits.
(Ord. 2014-3, 3-3-2014)
8-1-7: EMERGENCY REMOVAL:
Nothing contained in the provisions of this chapter shall be deemed to prohibit
the removal and hauling by an unlicensed person of materials considered by the
city manager or the city manager's designee or fire chief to constitute a
health menace or a fire menace of such nature as necessary to be ordered by
either of said officers to be promptly removed. (Ord. 320, 9-12-1938; amd. Ord.
92-4, 6-1-1992)
8-1-8: MANDATORY SERVICE; UNAUTHORIZED DISPOSAL OF SOLID WASTE PROHIBITED:
   (A)   The accumulation, collection, removal and disposal of solid waste,
organics, and dry recyclables shall be controlled by the city for the
protection of the public health, safety and welfare and to contribute toward
the diminution of air pollution in the city. The city council finds that to
give practical effect, a comprehensive system for the periodic collection,
removal and disposal of solid waste, the recycling of dry recyclables, and the
collection, removal, disposal and/or composting of organics, from all premises
in the city is essential and benefits all occupants of premises in the city,
and, therefore, all such occupants are made liable for the solid waste
collection charges, the organics collection charges, and the dry recyclables
collection charges established by the council for the collection and processing
of organics and dry recyclables, and each occupant shall pay at least the
minimum rate established for such services.
   (B)   Every person owning or occupying a residence or commercial
establishment shall subscribe to solid waste collection service from the city
or contract agent having a valid solid waste collection route permit and a
service location permit for any such residence or commercial establishment.
   (C)   For residential properties, nonpayment of collection and/or disposal
fees will result in an assessment in the amount of the unpaid fees, added to
the property tax bill of the owner of the property.
   (D)   For commercial properties, the contract agent shall retain the right
to pursue any and all remedies available against either the property owner or
any lessee, whoever may be in possession of the premises.
   (E)   No person shall throw or deposit, or cause to be thrown or deposited,
any solid waste matter in or upon any vacant lot, street, alley, gutter,
highway, park or other public place or keep any residential solid waste except
in the manner prescribed by this chapter.
   (F)   No person shall deposit solid waste in the container of another
person, or set out solid waste for collection at another person's service
location, except as may be established by the city manager or the city
manager's designee where the city manager has knowledge of construction,
demolition or other temporary obstacles which prevent the use of or access to
permanent service locations.
   (G)   No customer shall permit or consent to another person depositing solid
waste in his container or setting out solid waste for collection at his place
or premises; except that this provision shall not apply where the city manager
or the city manager's designee has established a temporary service location
because the city manager has knowledge of construction, demolition or other
temporary obstacles which prevent the use of or access to permanent service
locations.
   (H)   No person shall burn solid waste in a home heating furnace, fireplace,
or wood stove, excepting that nonplasticized wastepaper may be used for
kindling of fires in wood burning appliances. (Ord. 2014-3, 3-3-2014)
8-1-9: CITY MANAGER; POWERS:
The city manager or the city manager's designee shall have the power to
establish rules and regulations not inconsistent with the provisions of this
chapter, governing the collection and disposal of solid waste, organics, and
dry recyclables, provided that such rules and regulations shall have as their
purpose the enforcement of the provisions of this chapter and the health and
sanitary laws and regulations in effect in the city. (Ord. 2014-3, 3-3-2014)
8-1-10: ENFORCEMENT; INTERFERENCE:
The health department is hereby specifically required to enforce the provisions
of this chapter, except sections
8-1-11 and of this chapter, and shall have the right to enter any and all
premises for the purpose of determining the sanitary condition thereof, and any
person denying or obstructing such entry shall be subject to the general
penalty provided for in this code 1
.
It shall be unlawful for any person in any manner to interfere with the
collection or disposal of solid waste, organics or recyclables by any person
authorized by license or contract to collect and dispose of the same. (Ord.
2014-3, 3-3-2014)
 
Notes
1 1. See title I, chapter 4 of this code.
8-1-11: CONTRACT:
For the collection and disposal of solid waste or for the collection and
disposal and/or composting of organics, and/or for the collection and recycling
of dry recyclables, a contract for a period determined by the city council may
be entered into by the city in accordance with and subject to the terms and
conditions of the provisions of this chapter and the laws of the state. If the
city elects to enter into separate contracts for different portions of the
city, each of the aforementioned contracts may be separate, and whether by
separate contract or by a single contract, may be held by one contract agent.
Any such contract shall provide that the contractor shall collect and dispose
of the solid waste in the city, or collect and compost the organics in the
city, or collect and recycle the dry recyclables in the city, in the manner in
which this chapter provides, and shall not charge any amount in excess of the
rates specified by the council under the authority granted to it in this
chapter, subject to a discount, in an amount to be determined by the council,
on solid waste and organics collection fees for seniors and disabled customers.
The contractor shall be required to furnish a surety bond to the city in the
sum of the value of the contract for one year or one hundred thousand dollars
($100,000.00), whichever is less, conditional upon the faithful performance of
the contractor and the provisions of this chapter. The contractor shall have
the sole and exclusive right, except as in this chapter otherwise provided, to
collect all solid waste, organics and dry recyclables in the city (or in the
portion of the city covered by its contract), and transport the same through
the streets and public ways of the city.
Each contract shall further provide that the contractor shall be required to
dispose of all such solid waste at the transfer station or disposal site
selected by the contractor and approved by the city, or the recyclable
materials and organics at the MRF or processing facility selected by the
contractor.
Each such contract shall also require that the contractor carry comprehensive
general liability insurance in an amount not less than five million dollars
($5,000,000.00) combined single limit per occurrence for bodily injury,
personal injury and property damage; automobile liability insurance in an
amount not less than five million dollars ($5,000,000.00) combined single limit
per accident for bodily injury and property damage; and workers' compensation
and employers' liability insurance in amounts not less than: a) workers'
compensation limits as required by the Labor Code of the state of California,
and b) employers' liability limits of one million dollars ($1,000,000.00) per
accident. Such insurance is to cover both the city and the contract agent.
The council by resolution shall have power to provide for the inclusion in such
contract of such terms as it deems necessary to protect the interests of the
city.
Each contract may be let to such responsible persons as the council may see
fit, or be let on bids, and if let on bids, sealed bids shall be called for by
the council and the contract awarded to the lowest responsible bidder. Each
proposal or bid shall be accompanied by a certified check, payable to the city,
in the sum of one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) which sum shall be forfeited to
the city if the bidder to whom is awarded the contract shall fail or refuse to
enter into the contract within ten (10) days after the date of mailing to the
successful bidder the "notice of award of contract". The council reserves the
right to reject any and all bids. (Ord. 2014-3, 3-3-2014)
8-1-12: TRASH ENCLOSURES:
The regulations set forth in this section shall apply to all development
projects, as defined by this chapter, receiving building permits in the city
after adoption of this section. All trash enclosures shall meet the following
minimum standards:
   (A)   The enclosure shall be architecturally compatible with the structure
it will be serving. All enclosures shall have a minimum of six foot (6') high
solid masonry walls and solid metal gates. Gates for trash enclosures shall be
secured with "cane bolts" and be attached to a six inch (6") diameter steel
post placed outside of the trash enclosure. Gates shall not be secured to the
walls of the enclosure. Enclosures shall meet or exceed all applicable criteria
as may be set forth by state and federal laws.
   (B)   The minimum trash enclosure size shall be six (6) square feet per one
thousand (1,000) square feet of gross floor area for commercial and industrial
development projects. Residential development projects requiring a trash
enclosure shall provide ten (10) square feet of trash enclosure space per unit
in the development. The minimum size of all trash enclosures shall be one
hundred (100) square feet not including any pedestrian accessways.
   (C)   A minimum of twenty five percent (25%) of the space in a trash
enclosure shall be provided as a recycling area. The designated recycling area
shall be protected from the weather and shall be posted with a sign which
clearly identifies the area.
   (D)   All trash enclosures shall be placed so as to provide convenient
access to the user. No trash enclosure shall be placed so as to create a
potential safety hazard to traffic or pedestrians. No trash enclosure shall be
placed in a required setback area when adjacent to residential uses or zoning.
(Ord. 93-6, 10-4-1993)
8-1-13: RECYCLING CONTAINERS FOR MULTI-FAMILY RESIDENCES, APARTMENT BUILDINGS
AND MOBILE HOME PARKS:
The owner of every "multi-family residential unit" (defined as 2 or more
single-family units on the same site receiving solid waste collection service),
apartment building, or mobile home park shall procure from the contract agent
and provide bins or other suitable containers on site for the collection of dry
recyclables of the tenants, occupants or inhabitants of such multi-family
residential unit, apartment building or mobile home park. Said bins or
containers shall be reasonably available to tenants, occupants or inhabitants
therein and to the contract agent for collection in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 2007-3, 3-19-2007)
8-1-14: SEPARATE CONTAINERS FOR STREET/PARKING LOT SWEEPERS:
"Commercial or shopping centers", defined as two (2) or more offices or
wholesale or retail establishments or other businesses occupying a site with
shared or contiguous private streets or parking lots which employ or perform
services involving the cleaning of streets and parking lots within the center
shall provide on site bins, containers or other receptacles provided by the
contract agent as reasonably necessary and reasonably located for exclusive use
of the street sweeping/parking area sweeping service to place the material
collected by such street sweeping/parking area sweeping service and shall
maintain such bin, container or receptacle separate from any bin, container or
receptacle provided for the collection and disposal of solid waste, organics or
recyclables generated by merchants or businesses within the center. (Ord. 2014-
3, 3-3-2014)
8-1-15: USE OF CONTAINER PROVIDED BY CONTRACT AGENT, LICENSED CONTRACTOR OR
PROPERTY OWNER:
All construction sites, licensed contractors and others engaged in construction
or demolition work within the city where solid waste is produced and
accumulates, shall procure from the contract agent, a container, bin, or
receptacle and shall use such container, bin or receptacle provided by the
contract agent for placement, holding and collection by the contract agent of
all solid waste, recyclable materials and organics which is produced or
accumulates on the site or on the premises between the times of successive
collections. Notwithstanding the foregoing, a licensed contractor engaged in
construction or demolition work within the city, or a property owner of
property on which such demolition or construction is being performed may use
any container, bin or receptacle which is owned by and the property of either
such contractor or property owner for the placement and holding of all solid
waste, recyclables and organics produced or accumulated on the site or
premises, and may dispose of the same at any licensed transfer station or MRF.
(Ord. 2014-3, 3-3-2014)
8-1-16: PORTABLE RESTROOM TO BE PROVIDED BY CONTRACT AGENT, LICENSED CONTRACTOR
OR PROPERTY OWNER:
It shall be unlawful for any person to place, maintain, locate or to provide or
make available for the use of any other person or persons any portable restroom
on any public or private property within the city unless the portable restroom
or restrooms have either been procured from and provided for by the contract
agent, or are owned by and the property of the property owner of real property
at which such restroom or restrooms is placed, maintained or located, or by a
licensed contractor performing demolition or construction work at such
location. Every person, commercial, wholesale or retail establishment or other
business and all construction sites, licensed contractors and others engaged in
construction or demolition work within the city who is required to or does
place, locate, maintain or who provides or makes available for the use of any
other person or persons a portable restroom or restrooms within the city shall
either procure such restroom or restrooms from the contract agent and shall use
such portable restroom or restrooms provided by the contract agent for the
holding of waste for collection, delivery to or service by the contract agent;
or, such restroom or restrooms shall be owned by and/or the property of the
licensed contractor performing such construction or demolition work within the
city or the property owner of the property or premises upon which such work is
being conducted. (Ord. 2011-4, 10-17-2011)
8-1-17: PENALTY FOR VIOLATIONS:
Violation of this chapter shall be punishable pursuant to provision of title I,
chapter 4 of this code. (Ord. 2014-3, 3-3-2014)
CHAPTER 1.5
ORGANIC WASTE COLLECTION
SECTION:
8-1.5-1: Findings And Intent
8-1.5-2: Definitions
8-1.5-3: Authorization
8-1.5-4: Non-Delegable Responsibilities
8-1.5-5: Delegable Responsibilities
8-1.5-6: Generator Requirements
8-1.5-7: Self-Hauling
8-1.5-8: Commercial Business And Commercial Organic Waste Generator
Requirements
8-1.5-9: Commercial Edible Food Generator Requirements
8-1.5-10: Enforcement
8-1.5-1: FINDINGS AND INTENT:
   (A)   SB 1383, the Short-Lived Climate Pollutant Reduction Act of 2016,
through regulations adopted by the California Department of Resources,
Recycling and Recovery ("CalRecycle") imposes requirements on multiple
entities, including public entities, residential households, commercial
businesses and business owners, and others, to support achievement of statewide
organic waste disposal reduction targets.
   (B)   The final regulations implementing SB 1383 ("SB 1383 Regulations")
were adopted by CalRecycle in November 2020.
   (C)   SB 1383 regulations require the City to adopt an enforceable ordinance
or similarly enforceable mechanisms to implement relevant provisions of SB 1383
regulations.
   (D)   This chapter is intended to comply with applicable requirements of the
SB 1383regulations. The program established by this chapter shall operate in
conjunction with the other programs implemented by chapter 8-1. (Ord. 2021-6,
11-15-2021)
8-1.5-2: DEFINITIONS:
The following definitions shall be utilized for purposes of implementation of
this chapter. In addition, the definitions set forth in chapter 8-1 shall be
applied to this chapter. Where a definition is included in the SB 1383
regulations, that definition shall be utilized unless otherwise included in
this chapter, in which case the definition set forth herein shall prevail.
CALRECYCLE: The California Department of Resources Recycling and Recovery,
which is the Department designated with responsibility for developing,
implementing, and enforcing SB 1383 regulations.
COMMERCIAL BUSINESS or COMMERCIAL: A firm, partnership, proprietorship, joint-
stock company, corporation, or association, whether for-profit or nonprofit,
strip mall, industrial facility, or a multifamily residential dwelling having
five (5) or more dwelling units.
COMMERCIAL EDIBLE FOOD GENERATOR: A commercial business that generates edible
food that would otherwise be disposed.
COMMERCIAL ORGANIC WASTE GENERATOR: A commercial business that serves food or
beverages on its premises for immediate consumption, but does not generate
edible food.
EDIBLE FOOD: Food intended for human consumption.
EDIBLE FOOD RECOVERY: The recovery of food from Tier 1 or Tier 2 edible food
generators, for recovery and reuse consistent with food safety requirement of
the California Retail Food Code.
FOOD RECOVERY ORGANIZATION: An entity that engages in the collection or receipt
of edible food from commercial edible food generators and distributes that
edible food to the public for food recovery either directly or through other
entities or as otherwise defined in 14 CCR section 18982(a)(25), including, but
not limited to:
   1.   A food bank as defined in section 113783 of the Health and Safety Code;
   2.   A nonprofit charitable organization as defined in section 113841 of the
Health and Safety code; and
   3.   A nonprofit charitable temporary food facility as defined in section
113842 of the Health and Safety Code.
FOOD RECOVERY SERVICE: A person or entity that collects and transports edible
food from a commercial edible food generator to a food recovery organization or
other entities for food recovery, or as otherwise defined in 14 CCR section
18982(a)(26). A food recovery service is not a commercial edible food generator
for the purposes of this chapter and implementation of 14 CCR, division 7,
chapter 12 pursuant to 14 CCR section 18982(a)(7).
INSPECTION: A site visit where City reviews records, containers, and a
commercial businesses handling of organic waste or edible food, and related
education and record keeping, to determine if it is complying with requirements
set forth in this chapter.
LARGE EVENT: An event, including, but not limited to, a sporting event or a
flea market, that charges an admission price, or is operated by a local agency,
and serves an average of more than two thousand (2,000) individuals per day of
operation of the event, at a location that includes, but is not limited to, a
public, nonprofit, or privately owned park, parking lot, golf course, street
system, or other open space when being used for an event.
LARGE VENUE: A permanent venue facility that annually seats or serves an
average of more than two thousand (2,000) individuals within the grounds of the
facility per day of operation of the venue facility, including, but not limited
to, a public, nonprofit, or privately owned or operated stadium, amphitheater,
arena, hall, amusement park, conference or civic center, zoo, aquarium,
airport, racetrack, horse track, performing arts center, fairground, museum,
theater, or other public attraction facility. For purposes of this chapter, a
site under common ownership or control that includes more than one large venue
that is contiguous with other large venues in the site, is a single large
venue.
ORGANIC WASTE: Food waste, green waste, landscape and pruning waste, and
nonhazardous wood waste.
ORGANIC WASTE GENERATOR: A person or entity that is responsible for the initial
creation of organic waste.
RECOVERED ORGANIC WASTE PRODUCTS: Products made from California, landfill-
diverted recovered organic waste processed in a permitted or otherwise
authorized facility.
RESIDENTIAL: Properties utilized for full-time human habitation, including
single-family properties and multi-family properties with four (4) or less
dwelling units.
SB 1383: Senate Bill 1383 of 2016 approved by the Governor on September 19,
2016, which added sections 39730.5, 39730.6, 39730.7, and 39730.8 to the Health
and Safety Code, and added chapter 13.1 (commencing with section 42652) to part
3 of division 30 of the Public Resources Code, establishing methane emissions
reduction targets in a Statewide effort to reduce emissions of short-lived
climate pollutants as amended, supplemented, superseded, and replaced from time
to time.
SB 1383 REGULATIONS: The Short-Lived Climate Pollutants: Organic Waste
Reduction regulations developed by CalRecycle and adopted in 2020 that created
14 CCR, division 7, chapter 12 and amended portions of regulations of 14 CCR
and 27 CCR.
TIER ONE COMMERCIAL EDIBLE FOOD GENERATOR: A commercial edible food generator
that is any of the following:
   1.   Supermarket.
   2.   Grocery store with a total facility size equal to or greater than ten
thousand (10,000) square feet.
   3.   Food service provider.
   4.   Food distributor.
   5.   Wholesale food vendor.
TIER TWO COMMERCIAL EDIBLE FOOD GENERATOR: A commercial edible food generator
that is any of the following:
   1.   Restaurant with two hundred fifty (250) or more seats, or a total
facility size equal to or greater than five thousand (5,000) square feet.
   2.   Hotel with an on-site food facility and two hundred (200) or more
rooms.
   3.   Health facility with an on-site food facility and one hundred (100) or
more beds.
   4.   Large venue.
   5.   Large event.
   6.   A state agency with a cafeteria with two hundred fifty (250) or more
seats or total cafeteria facility size equal to or greater than five thousand
(5,000) square feet.
   7.   A local education agency facility with an on-site food facility. (Ord.
2021-6, 11-15-2021)
8-1.5-3: AUTHORIZATION:
The City Manager, or designee, is hereby authorized to make any determinations,
or undertake or arrange for any programs or activities required to implement
this chapter and relevant provisions of SB 1383 regulations and in so doing may
utilize City personnel. (Ord. 2021-6, 11-15-2021)
8-1.5-4: NON-DELEGABLE RESPONSIBILITIES:
The City Manager, or designee, shall have sole responsibility for and may
undertake the following determinations, programs or activities:
   (A)   Determining the compliance approach to be used by the City, either the
collection service (standard) approach or the performance-based approach, as
those are described in the SB 1383 regulations.
   (B)   Granting of waivers from SB 1383 requirements to an organic waste
generator.
   (C)   Applying for waivers from SB 1383 requirements granted by CalRecycle.
   (D)   Applying for waivers from SB 1383 requirements granted by CalRecycle
in the event of emergencies or disasters.
   (E)   Regulating contract agents and self-haulers for their compliance with
relevant SB 1383 regulations.
   (F)   Initiating and prosecuting enforcement actions against organic waste
generators for violation of this chapter, including the determination and
assessment of penalties.
   (G)   Undertaking organic waste capacity planning, and edible food recovery
capacity planning.
   (H)   Maintaining and submitting records and reports required by the SB 1383
regulations. (Ord. 2021-6, 11-15-2021)
8-1.5-5: DELEGABLE RESPONSIBILITIES:
The City Manager, or designee, may undertake programs or activities
implementing relevant provisions of SB 1383 regulations, and in so doing may
utilize a contract agent to implement this chapter, including, but not limited
to, the following:
   (A)   Providing for collection of organic waste utilizing a container
collection system, in conjunction with other City programs for collection of
solid waste and recyclable materials, and delivery of collected organic waste
to an appropriate facility for recovery in accordance with SB 1383 regulations.
   (B)   Minimizing container contamination through public education and
periodic monitoring of container contents.
   (C)   Review, analysis, recommendation and tracking related to waiver
requests from SB 1383 requirements submitted by organic waste generators.
   (D)   Providing for container colors and labels in accordance with SB 1383
regulations.
   (E)   Providing for operations in the event of emergencies or disasters.
   (F)   Identifying commercial organic waste generators and commercial edible
food generators and providing education and outreach regarding SB 1383
regulations.
   (G)   Arranging for recovery of edible food from Tier One Commercial Edible
Food Generators and Tier Two Commercial Edible Food Generators through, among
other means, a food recovery organization or food recovery service.
   (H)   Recovery of organic waste generated at large events or large venues.
   (I)   Providing information to assist with organic waste capacity planning,
and edible food recovery capacity planning.
   (J)   Procuring recovered organic waste products.
   (K)   Providing periodic inspections of organic waste generators and
investigation of complaints, and creation and maintenance of records regarding
such activities.
   (L)   Providing information and other data for purposes of tracking, record
keeping and reporting in accordance with SB 1383 regulations. (Ord. 2021-6, 11-
15-2021)
8-1.5-6: GENERATOR REQUIREMENTS:
Owners of residential or commercial properties, and other persons utilizing
such properties, that are organic waste generators must subscribe and pay for
collection service for organic waste, unless waived by the City, or the organic
waste generator self-hauls such materials. Owners of such properties are
responsible for any failure to subscribe and pay for such service, or to
undertake other allowable methods of diversion. (Ord. 2021-6, 11-15-2021)
8-1.5-7: SELF-HAULING:
   (A)   Nothing in this chapter shall preclude any organic waste generator
from self-hauling organic waste generated by that organic waste generator to a
specified composting facility, community composting program, or other
collection activity or program. An organic waste generator may transport
organic waste, rather than hiring the contract agent only if the organic waste
generator completes its activity by using a vehicle owned by that organic waste
generator and operated by the organic waste generator or an employee or
volunteer of the organic waste generator. This self-haul exemption does not
include contracting for or hiring a third party to transport the organic waste.
A self-hauler must retain on site a self-hauling form certifying that all self-
hauling activities will be completed in accordance with this chapter or any
other applicable law or regulation. The self-hauling form shall be made
available to the City upon request. At a minimum, the self-hauler shall provide
the following information on the self-hauling form:
      1.   The name, address and telephone number of the self-hauler's
representative that will be signing the self-hauling form.
      2.   A list of the types of organic waste (e.g. food waste or green
waste) that are being transported.
      3.   For each type of organic waste, the amount (pounds/tons) that is
being delivered to the specified composting facility, community composting
program, or other collection activity or program on a quarterly basis.
Documentation of organic waste disposal shall be provided in receipts obtained
from the receiving facility or program.
      4.   The name and address of the composting facility, community
composting program, or other collection activity or program.
      5.   A written statement, signed by the self-hauler or representative,
certifying that the self-hauler is in compliance with the requirements of this
section.
   (B)   The City Manager may restrict or prohibit self-hauling by an organic
waste Generator if the City Manager determines, after providing notice and an
opportunity for a hearing, that the organic waste generator's self-hauling
activities violate the provisions of this article or any other applicable law
or regulation. (Ord. 2021-6, 11-15-2021)
8-1.5-8: COMMERCIAL BUSINESS AND COMMERCIAL ORGANIC WASTE GENERATOR
REQUIREMENTS:
   (A)   Commercial organic waste generators shall provide containers for the
collection of organic waste in all areas where containers for solid waste are
provided for customers, except in restrooms.
   (B)   Commercial organic waste generators shall annually provide information
to employees, contractors, tenants, and customers about organic waste recovery
requirements and about proper sorting of organic waste, and for new tenants
within fourteen (14) days of occupation of premises.
   (C)   Commercial businesses shall provide or arrange for access to their
properties at reasonable times for inspections, provided, however, that nothing
is intended to permit an inspector to enter the interior of a private
residential property. (Ord. 2021-6, 11-15-2021)
8-1.5-9: COMMERCIAL EDIBLE FOOD GENERATOR REQUIREMENTS:
   (A)   Tier One Commercial Edible Food Generators shall comply with the
requirements of this section commencing January 1, 2022. Tier Two Commercial
Edible Food Generators shall comply with the requirements of this section
commencing January 1, 2024.
   (B)   Commercial edible food generators shall arrange to recover the maximum
amount of edible food that would otherwise be disposed. A commercial edible
food generator shall comply with the requirements of this section through a
contract or written agreement with any or all of the following:
      1.   Food recovery organizations or food recovery services that will
collect their edible food for food recovery.
      2.   Food recovery organizations that will accept the edible food that
the commercial edible food generator self-hauls to the food recovery
organization for food recovery.
   (C)   A large venue or large event operator that does not provide food
services, but allows for food to be provided, shall require food facilities
operating at the large venue or large event to comply with the requirements of
this section.
   (D)   A commercial edible food generator subject to the requirements in this
section shall keep a record that includes the following:
      1.   A list of each food recovery organization or food recovery service
that collects or receives its edible food pursuant to a contract or written
agreement.
      2.   A copy of contracts or written agreements between the commercial
edible food generator and a food recovery organization or food recovery
service.
      3.   A record of the following for each food recovery organization or
food recovery service that the commercial edible food generator has a contract
or written agreement with:
         (a)   The name, address and contact information of the service or
organization.
         (b)   The types of food that will be collected by or self-hauled to
the service or organization.
         (c)   The established frequency that food will be collected or self-
hauled.
         (d)   The quantity of food collected or self-hauled to a service or
organization for food recovery. The quantity shall be measured in pounds
recovered per month. (Ord. 2021-6, 11-15-2021)
8-1.5-10: ENFORCEMENT:
Enforcement of this chapter shall be pursuant to section
8-1-10 and chapter 1-4 of this Code. (Ord. 2021-6, 11-15-2021)
CHAPTER 2
INDUSTRIAL WASTE SYSTEM
(Rep. by Ord. 742-A, 3-15-1976)
CHAPTER 3
SANITARY SEWAGE SYSTEM
SECTION:
8-3-1: Definitions
8-3-2: Connection; City Rights; Infiltration/Inflow Limit
8-3-3: Permit Required
8-3-4: Sewer Connection Fees
8-3-5: Payment Of Sanitary Sewer Charges
8-3-6: Reimbursements
8-3-7: Connection; Performance Standards
8-3-8: Sewer System Construction
8-3-9: Use Of City System Required; Restrictions On Private Sewage Disposal
Facilities
8-3-10: Prohibited Discharges Designated
8-3-11: Grease, Oil And Sand Interceptors
8-3-12: Swimming Pool Water And Other Inflow Prohibited; Exception
8-3-13: Enforcement; City Manager Authority
8-3-14: Rights Of Inspection
8-3-15: Violation; Correction Notice Required
8-3-16: Enforcement; Disconnection Authorized When; Reconnection Conditions
8-3-17: Continuing Certain Uses Deemed Public Nuisance When; Abatement
8-3-18: Occupation Of Disconnected Premises Deemed Public Nuisance; Abatement;
Reconnection Costs
8-3-19: Disconnection As Means Of Enforcement Only
8-3-20: Violation; Damage Liability
8-3-21: Tampering With Or Damaging Sewerage Works Prohibited
8-3-22: Violation Of Discharge Requirements; Charges
8-3-1: DEFINITIONS:
   (A)   Unless the context specifically indicates otherwise, the meanings of
terms used in this chapter shall be as defined in the American Society of Civil
Engineers' "Manual Of Engineering Practice No. 37", and the latest edition of
the book "Standard Methods For The Examination Of Water And Sewage", published
by the American Public Health Association.
   (B)   The meaning of additional terms as used in this chapter shall be as
follows:
   APPLICANT: Any person or group of persons who applies for sewer service.
   BUSINESS: All commercial uses, including, but not limited to, offices,
merchandising and industrial uses, and residential uses on premises where there
are five (5) or more living units or where unrelated persons are housed in the
same structure, such as boarding or fraternity houses.
   CITY: The city of Selma, authorized representative acting within the scope
of his assigned duties.
   CITY COUNCIL: The city council of the city of Selma.
   CITY SEWERAGE SYSTEM OR SANITARY SEWER SYSTEM: All facilities for collecting
and transporting domestic or industrial wastes of any nature, including all
such facilities both inside and outside the city limits owned by the city and
operated and maintained by the Selma-Kingsburg-Fowler County sanitation
district ("district").
   COMMERCIAL GARBAGE GRINDER: A mechanical unit for pulverizing large
quantities of waste by a commercial user.
   COMPLETION: Acceptance, in writing, by the city manager of an addition to
the city sewerage system.
   CONNECTED: The physical joinder of any plumbing or drainage system or
fixture contained in structure to a public sewer line.
   CUSTOMER: Any person, firm, association, corporation or governmental agency
served by the city.
   DISTRICT: The Selma-Kingsburg-Fowler County sanitation district.
   DWELLING OR DWELLING UNIT: A room or suite of rooms which is occupied by one
family for living and sleeping purposes, including a single-family residence,
mobile home unit, apartment, townhouse, flat or condominium.
   FEE SCHEDULE: The fee schedule as adopted from time to time by the city
council by resolution whether separately or as part of a master fee schedule in
a master fee resolution.
   INFILTRATION: The water entering a sewer system, including sewer service
connections, from the ground through such means as, but not limited to,
defective pipes, pipe joints, connections, or manhole walls. Infiltration does
not include and is distinguished from inflow.
   INFILTRATION/INFLOW: The total quantity of water from both infiltration and
inflow without distinguishing the source.
   INFLOW: The water discharged into a sewer system, including service
connections, from such sources as, but not limited to, roof leaders, cellar,
yard and area drains, foundation drains, cooling water discharges, drains from
springs and swampy areas, manhole covers, cross connections from storm sewers
and combined sewers, catch basins, storm waters, surface runoff, street wash
waters, or drainage. Inflow does not include and is distinguished from
infiltration.
   LOT: Any premises, piece or parcel of land or property, as bounded, defined
or shown upon the latest map, plat or deed recorded in the office of the
recorder of the county; provided, however, that in the event any building or
improvements appurtenant to said building covers more area than a "lot", as
herein defined, the term "lot" shall be deemed to be and include all such
pieces or parcels of land upon which said buildings or improvements are wholly
or partly located.
   PERSON: Any individual, firm, company, association, society, municipality,
private corporation, institution, enterprise, governmental agency, or other
entity.
   SEWAGE: Sewage as defined under the ordinances, resolutions and regulations
of the district.
   SEWER CONNECTION FEES: The "connection charge" which may be applicable to
any lot, but does not include those applicable fees charged by district.
   UNIT, EQUIVALENT SINGLE-FAMILY UNIT OR EQUIVALENT SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENCE:
Synonymous terms that mean a residential service unit as defined by the
district for office, commercial, industrial, institutional, or similar uses.
(Ord. 2003-6, 9-15-2003)
8-3-2: CONNECTION; CITY RIGHTS; INFILTRATION/INFLOW LIMIT:
   (A)   The city has by written agreement designated the district to control
the right to physically connect with the sanitary sewer system of the city and
for laying laterals therefrom upon payment of applicable fees of city and
district. The infiltration/inflow limit for all connections to the sanitary
sewer system of the city shall be as determined by the district.
   (B)   Applicant shall perform tests as required by the district to guarantee
that inflow/infiltration does not exceed the limit as prescribed by the
district. Copies of any such tests shall be filed with the city. (Ord. 2003-6,
9-15-2003)
8-3-3: PERMIT REQUIRED:
No connection shall be made to the sewer system of the city until a permit
therefor has been obtained from the city manager or the manager's designee and
the appropriate permits from the district. The city shall not issue a building
permit until a sewer connection permit has been obtained from the district.
(Ord. 2003-6, 9-15-2003)
8-3-4: SEWER CONNECTION FEES:
No connection to the sewer system of the city shall be made unless the
following charges, when applicable, have been paid:
   (A)   Fees; Connection Charge:
      1.   For each connection to the city sewer system there shall be a charge
as set forth in the master fee resolution or by separate resolution. Payment of
any fees hereunder to city or credits granted by city shall in no way limit,
abrogate or relieve the applicable requirements of district.
      2.   Where connection is to an existing building sewer for which a
connection charge has been previously paid to city, a credit equal to the
previous connection classification shall be made in determining the applicable
connection charge for the city's charges only; provided, however, the existing
building sewer has not been disconnected for the previous twelve (12) calendar
months. Industrial classifications will be reviewed by the city engineer to
determine what credit from the city, if any, is applicable. All such credits
will be on a current rate basis.
   (B)   Deferral Of Charges: When land is subdivided, the owner, prior to the
time the final map or parcel map is approved, shall pay or cause to be paid all
applicable sewer connection fees of the city; provided, however, that the
connection charge of city applicable to subdivision may be deferred (except for
existing structures) and paid at any time prior to the issuance of a building
permit for any structure to be constructed on such property.
   (C)   Authorization Of Work: Payment of charges and issuance of permits
pursuant to this section does not authorize the permittee to perform or cause
to be performed work specified in this chapter to be performed by the city or
the district. (Ord. 2003-6, 9-15-2003)
8-3-5: PAYMENT OF SANITARY SEWER CHARGES:
The amount of any sewer system connection charges of the city prescribed under
the provisions of this chapter shall be deemed a debt owing to the city which,
until paid, shall be a continuing obligation of the owner of the property for
the connection of which the charge was incurred. Any person who makes a
connection to the city sewer system without having paid such charges in full
shall be liable in an action in the name of the city in any court of competent
jurisdiction for the amount of such charge. The conviction or punishment of any
person for connection to the city sewer system without obtaining all necessary
permits shall not relieve such person from paying the charges due and unpaid at
the time of such conviction. (Ord. 2003-6, 9-15-2003)
8-3-6: REIMBURSEMENTS:
When a sewer main installed by a person is required to be constructed to a size
larger than required solely for such person's application or when sewer mains
are installed that benefit property other than the property making
contributions to the construction, the persons constructing such sewer mains or
oversized sewer mains may request an agreement for reimbursement over a period
not to exceed ten (10) years from fees generated by connection of the
noncontributing property. The cost eligible for inclusion shall be determined
by the city council in its sole discretion and such decision shall be final.
Cost may include, but is not limited to, interest during the life of the
agreement. The city may cause the cost of preparation of such agreement to be
prepaid. The persons requesting such agreement shall provide to the city the
cost information required to prepare such an agreement and deposit the amount
established by the city manager to cover the cost of preparing said agreement.
(Ord. 2003-6, 9-15-2003)
8-3-7: CONNECTION; PERFORMANCE STANDARDS:
Connections made to the sewer system of the city and laterals therefrom shall
be made in accordance with the standard specifications of the district. Any
person or entity discharging to, or proposing to discharge to the sewer system,
shall comply with the ordinances, policies, standards and regulations of the
district (herein "ordinances"). In the event of any conflict between this
chapter and the ordinances of the district, the ordinances shall control. (Ord.
2003-6, 9-15-2003)
8-3-8: SEWER SYSTEM CONSTRUCTION:
Any person desiring to make an addition to the sewer system shall comply with
district regulations and standards. (Ord. 2003-6, 9-15-2003)
8-3-9: USE OF CITY SYSTEM REQUIRED; RESTRICTIONS ON PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL
FACILITIES:
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to cause, suffer or permit the discharge
of sewage, human excrement or other liquid wastes in any place or manner except
to the city sewer system. It is unlawful to construct within the city any
privy, privy vaults, septic tank, cesspool or other facility designed or
intended to be utilized for the disposal of sewage.
   (B)   Existing systems, working properly, may be used and pumped, but
repairs, additions or alterations are prohibited. At the time a repair,
addition or alteration is required, the system will be abandoned and connection
made to the city sewer system.
If a property using an existing private sewage disposal facility is within two
hundred feet (200') of an accessible public sewer and is not connected to said
public sewer, the property must connect to the public sewer upon the first
occurrence of any of the following: failure of the septic tank system or
creation of a public nuisance; building additions or modifications requiring a
building permit; changes in the use of the property requiring a conditional use
permit or a zoning variance; or a change in ownership of the property. Prior to
connection to the public sewer, the owner must pay the district sewer
connection fee and the city sewer connection fee which are in effect at the
time of issuance of the sewer connection permit. (Ord. 2003-6, 9-15-2003)
8-3-10: PROHIBITED DISCHARGES DESIGNATED:
No person shall discharge, deposit or throw, or cause, allow or permit to be
discharged into any public sewer or plumbing fixture connected to the sewer,
any substance/material prohibited by the district and shall abide by the
applicable regulations of the district. (Ord. 2003-6, 9-15-2003)
8-3-11: GREASE, OIL AND SAND INTERCEPTORS:
Grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be provided by the user in accordance
with district regulations and standards. (Ord. 2003-6, 9-15-2003)
8-3-12: SWIMMING POOL WATER AND OTHER INFLOW PROHIBITED; EXCEPTION:
It is unlawful to discharge into the city sewer system any water defined as
"inflow", and to do so will be grounds for discontinuance of service. Swimming
pool water shall not be drained or pumped into the sewer system except with
prior approval by and acceptance of conditions imposed by the district. (Ord.
2003-6, 9-15-2003)
8-3-13: ENFORCEMENT; CITY MANAGER AUTHORITY:
   (A)   The city manager is hereby charged with the duty of enforcing this
chapter. The provisions of this chapter shall be applicable to any building,
structure or property connected to the city sewer system, whether the same is
owned, operated or controlled by a private party or by a public or quasi-public
agency, corporation or association. Nothing in this chapter shall preclude or
restrict the district, either concurrently with the city or independently from
the city, from enforcing the district's ordinances, policies, regulations and
standards at the district's sole discretion. Upon request by district,
enforcement will be deferred to district on any of the matters of this chapter
excepting only those matters of the sole province of city, e.g., city sewer
fees.
   (B)   In addition to such other penalties as may be prescribed for a
violation of this chapter, whenever the city manager finds that a discharge of
sewage has been taking place in violation of any prohibitions or limitations
prescribed herein or any effluent limitations or pretreatment standards
promulgated by the district or any violation creating a violation of the
collection, treatment and disposal agreement of the city with the district, the
city manager may require the user to submit for his approval a detailed time
schedule of specific actions which the user shall take in order to prevent or
correct such violation. Any failure to comply with such an approved time
schedule shall likewise be deemed a violation of this chapter.
   (C)   Any person aggrieved by any decision or determination made by the city
manager interpreting or implementing the provisions of this chapter, including,
but not limited to, charges required to be paid, may file with the city manager
a written request for reconsideration within ten (10) days of such decision,
action or determination, setting forth in detail the facts supporting the
request for reconsideration. If the ruling made by the city manager on such
request for reconsideration is not satisfactory to the person requesting the
same, he may, within ten (10) days after written notification of the city
manager's ruling, appeal same to the city council by filing a written notice of
appeal with the city clerk. The appeal shall be heard by the city council
within thirty (30) days from the date of filing. After hearing the appeal of
such person and giving due consideration thereto, the city council shall make
its determination and notify the aggrieved party of such determination within
ten (10) days of the hearing. The appeal shall be based on the appellant's
written request to the city manager and the city manager's ruling thereon. The
ruling of the city manager shall be final and conclusive for all purposes,
except for rulings by the city manager that are appealed by the city council
whose determination shall remain in full force and effect during such periods
of reconsideration and/or appeal. (Ord. 2003-6, 9-15-2003)
8-3-14: RIGHTS OF INSPECTION:
The officers, employees and inspectors of the public works department and
building and inspection and of the district shall have the right to enter upon
the premises of any person at reasonable hours to inspect and to determine
whether this chapter is being violated. (Ord. 2003-6, 9-15-2003)
8-3-15: VIOLATION; CORRECTION NOTICE REQUIRED:
Any person found to be violating any provision of this chapter shall be served
by the city or authorized representative with written notice stating the nature
of the violation and providing a reasonable time limit for the satisfactory
correction thereof. Said time limit shall not be less than two (2) nor more
than seven (7) working days. The offender shall, within the period of time
stated in such notice, permanently cease all violations. All persons shall be
held strictly responsible for any and all acts of agents or employees done
under the provisions of this chapter. Upon being notified by the city of any
defect arising in any sewer or of any violation of this chapter, the person or
persons having charge of said work shall immediately correct the same. (Ord.
2003-6, 9-15-2003)
8-3-16: ENFORCEMENT; DISCONNECTION AUTHORIZED WHEN; RECONNECTION CONDITIONS:
As an alternative method of enforcing the provisions of this chapter, the city
shall have the power to disconnect the user from the sanitary sewer system of
the city. Upon disconnection, the city shall estimate the cost of disconnection
from and reconnection to the system, and such user shall deposit the cost, as
estimated, of disconnection and reconnection before such user is reconnected to
the system. The city shall refund any part of the deposit remaining after
payment of all costs of disconnection and reconnection. (Ord. 2003-6, 9-15-
2003)
8-3-17: CONTINUING CERTAIN USES DEEMED PUBLIC NUISANCE WHEN; ABATEMENT:
Continued habitation of any building or continued operation of any industrial
facility in violation of this chapter is hereby declared to be a public
nuisance. The city may cause proceedings to be brought for the abatement of the
occupancy of the building or industrial facility during the period of such
violation. (Ord. 2003-6, 9-15-2003)
8-3-18: OCCUPATION OF DISCONNECTED PREMISES DEEMED PUBLIC NUISANCE; ABATEMENT;
RECONNECTION COSTS:
During the period of such disconnection, habitation of such premises by human
beings shall constitute a public nuisance, whereupon the city shall cause
proceedings to be brought for the abatement for the occupancy of said premises
by human beings during the period of such disconnection. In such event, and as
a condition of reconnection, there is to be paid to the city a reasonable
attorney fee and cost of suit arising in said action. (Ord. 2003-6, 9-15-2003)
8-3-19: DISCONNECTION AS MEANS OF ENFORCEMENT ONLY:
The city declares that the foregoing procedures set forth in sections
8-3-15 through
 8-3-18 of this chapter are established as a means of enforcement of the terms
and conditions of this chapter and not as a penalty. (Ord. 2003-6, 9-15-2003)
8-3-20: VIOLATION; DAMAGE LIABILITY:
Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall become liable
to the city for any expense, loss or damage occasioned by the city by reason of
such violation. (Ord. 2003-6, 9-15-2003)
8-3-21: TAMPERING WITH OR DAMAGING SEWERAGE WORKS PROHIBITED:
No unauthorized person shall maliciously, wilfully or negligently break,
damage, destroy, uncover, deface or tamper with any structure, appurtenance or
equipment which is a part of the city sewer system. Any person violating this
provision shall be subject to the penalties provided by law. (Ord. 2003-6, 9-
15-2003)
8-3-22: VIOLATION OF DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS; CHARGES:
Any user violating discharge requirements shall pay the actual cost for labor,
material and supplies necessary to correct the discharge violation and shall
pay an administrative cost as determined by the city manager upon
recommendation of the city engineer. The minimum charge, including
administrative costs, shall be fifty dollars ($50.00). (Ord. 2003-6, 9-15-2003)
CHAPTER 4
SHOPPING CARTS
SECTION:
8-4-1: Findings And Purpose
8-4-2: Definitions
8-4-3: Cart Owner Requirements
8-4-4: Unlawful Possession And Abandonment Of Carts
8-4-5: City Retrieval Of Carts
8-4-6: Immediate Impound By City Of Identified Carts
8-4-7: Possession Of Carts By Recycling Centers
8-4-8: Enforcement And Remedies
8-4-9: Severability Clause
8-4-10: Cumulative Remedy
8-4-1: FINDINGS AND PURPOSE:
The Council of the City of Selma finds that abandoned shopping carts in the
city create potential hazard to the health and safety of the public, and
interfere with pedestrian and vehicular traffic and create a public nuisance.
The accumulation of abandoned carts, sometimes wrecked and/or dismantled on
public and private property tends to create conditions that reduce property
values, and promote blight and deterioration and result in a public nuisance.
This article is intended to insure that measures are taken by the owners of
shopping carts to prevent the removal of the shopping carts from the cart
owner's business premises, to make removal of the cart a violation of the Code,
and to facilitate the retrieval of abandoned shopping carts in a manner
consistent with state law and to use an administrative citation program to
establish appropriate fines intended to act as a reasonable deterrent in
preventing violations. (Ord. 2020-2, 2-3-2020)
8-4-2: DEFINITIONS:
The definitions set forth in this section shall govern the application and
interpretation of this article.
ABANDONED CART or ABANDONED SHOPPING CART: Any cart that has been removed,
without the written consent of the cart owner, from the business premises or
parking area of the retail establishment of which the cart owner's business
premises are located and is located on either public or private property. The
cart owner's business premises may include a multi-store shopping center with
shared areas of parking and public access.
ABANDONED CART PREVENTION PLAN: A document submitted in writing by a cart owner
pursuant to subsection
8-4-3(C) of this article that provides a plan for the prevention of cart
removal and for the recovery of off-site carts.
BUSINESS PREMISES: The interior of a cart owner's commercial establishment,
adjacent walkways, any loading area, and the parking area, as defined herein.
The cart owner's business premises may include a multi-store shopping center
with shared areas of parking and public access.
CART or SHOPPING CART: A basket which is mounted on wheels or a similar device
generally used in a retail or commercial establishment by a customer for the
purpose of transporting goods of any kind, including a basket used in a
laundromat or similar business. A cart sold by a commercial establishment to a
retail customer for that customer's personal use is not a shopping cart for the
purposes of this article.
CART IDENTIFICATION SIGN: A sign or engraved surface which is permanently
affixed to a shopping cart containing all of the information specified in
subsection
8-4-3(A).
CART OWNER: The owner or operator of a commercial establishment which provides
carts for use by its customers for the purpose of transporting goods of any
kind.
CART REMOVAL WARNING: A placard, sign or painted text which meets the
requirements specified in subsection
8-4-3(C)4.
CART RETRIEVAL COMPANY or CART RETRIEVAL SERVICE: A third party commercial
service in the business of retrieving and returning shopping carts to the cart
owner.
DIRECTOR: The community development director or his/her designee or such other
person designated by the city manager to administer this article.
OFF-SITE: Not within the business premises.
ON-SITE CART CONTAINMENT PROGRAM: One or more of the following measures:
   1.   Disabling devices on all shopping carts which prevent them from being
removed from the business premises by locking the wheels or otherwise
preventing the movement of the carts.
   2.   An on-site security guard to deter customers who attempt to remove
carts from the business premises.
   3.   Posts and chains around the business premises to prevent cart removal,
if permitted by the applicable zoning and the site plan, and if approved by the
fire marshal.
   4.   Obtaining a security deposit from customers for the on-site use of
shopping carts.
   5.   The rental or sale of carts that can be temporarily or permanently used
for the transport of goods.
   6.   Any other measure approved by the director as a means to contain carts
on the business premises.
PARKING AREA: A parking lot or other property provided by a commercial
establishment for use by a customer for parking an automobile or other vehicle.
In a multi-store complex or shopping center, parking area includes the entire
parking area used by or controlled by the complex or center.
PHYSICAL CONTAINMENT SYSTEM: One of the following, as approved by the director:
   1.   Disabling devices on all shopping carts which prevent them from being
removed from the business premises by locking the wheels or otherwise
preventing the movement of the carts.
   2.   Any other system of equipment approved by the director, which
physically contains shopping carts on the business premises.
RECYCLING CENTER: Any facility that is used in the process of collecting,
sorting, cleansing, treating, processing, reconstituting, or storing materials
that would otherwise become solid waste and returning them to the economic
mainstream in the form of raw material for new, reused, or reconstituted
products which meet the quality standards necessary to be used in the
marketplace. (Ord. 2020-2, 2-3-2020)
8-4-3: CART OWNER REQUIREMENTS:
All owners of carts shall comply with the requirements of this section.
   (A)   Cart Identification Required: All carts must have a permanently
affixed sign identifying the owner of the cart and notifying the public of the
procedure utilized for authorized removal of the cart from the business
premises and that unauthorized removal or possession of the cart is a violation
of state and local law. The sign shall contain a valid telephone number or
address for returning a cart to its owner. All owners of carts, including but
not limited to commercial cart owners, shall be responsible for complying with
this section and continuously maintaining, or causing to be maintained, the
cart identification sign so that all information is accurate and clearly
legible.
   (B)   Daily Cart Retrieval: All cart owners, regardless of the number of
carts owned, shall retrieve all carts daily to ensure the carts are secured
from public access after close of business hours.
   (C)   Abandoned Cart Prevention Plan: Every cart owner of more than twenty
five (25) carts shall develop, implement and comply with the terms and
conditions of an abandoned cart prevention plan to prevent the unauthorized
removal of carts from the business premises and, if removed, to retrieve the
cart within three (3) business days of the removal or notice of the removal.
The abandoned cart prevention plan shall be submitted to the director in
writing on a renewable annual basis and shall include the following elements:
      1.   Name Of Business/Owner: The name of the owner and the business, the
physical address where the business is conducted, and the name, address and
telephone number where all notices and/or citations are to be sent.
      2.   Inventory Of Carts: The number of carts owned.
      3.   Community Outreach: A description of a community outreach process
under which the cart owner shall cause notice to be provided to customers that
the removal of carts from the business premises is prohibited and a violation
of state and local law. This notice may include, but is not limited to, flyers
distributed at the premises, warnings on shopping bags, direct mail,
announcements using intercom systems at the business premises, a web site or
other means demonstrated to be effective to the reasonable satisfaction of the
director.
      4.   Signs: Shall be placed prominently and conspicuously at all
entrances and exits to the cart owner's business premises, including the
parking areas that provide a notice containing the following information:
      "REMOVAL OF SHOPPING CARTS FROM THESE PREMISES IS PROHIBITED BY STATE LAW
(B & P 22435.2).”
      5.   Physical Containment System: Every cart owner shall provide a
description of the specific measures the cart owner shall implement to prevent
cart removal from the business premises which meets the requirements specified
in subsection
8-4-2(M). These measures may include, but are not limited to, an electronic or
other disabling device on a cart so it cannot be removed from the business
premises, rental or sale of utility carts that can be temporarily or
permanently used to transport purchases, security personnel to prevent removal,
security deposit for use of a cart, or other demonstrable measures acceptable
to the director that are likely to prevent cart removal from the business
premises.
      6.   Employee Training: A description of an ongoing employee training
program that shall be implemented and designed to educate new and existing
employees on the abandoned cart prevention plan and conditions contained
therein no less frequently than annually.
      7.   Multiple Businesses: A cart o0wner who has two (2) or more
businesses may submit a single abandoned cart prevention plan.
   (D)   Administration Of The Abandoned Cart Prevention Plan: The abandoned
cart prevention plan shall be administered under the provisions of this
subsection.
      1.   At the time the cart owner submits the abandoned cart prevention
plan, the cart owner shall pay a fee for the review and administration of the
plan as set forth in the master fee schedule.
      2.   The director must approve or deny the abandoned cart prevention plan
within forty five (45) days of its submission. The plan may be denied on the
grounds that it fails to include the elements required under this article or
the plan is inadequate or insufficient to fulfill the required elements. If the
plan is denied, the director shall do so in writing and provide an explanation
for the basis of his or her decision. The cart owner has twenty (20) days,
subject to an extension by the director, to submit a new plan or appeal the
director's decision to the administrative hearing officer pursuant to the
Administrative Hearing Ordinance in section
1-20-9.
      3.   Once a plan is approved, the cart owner has thirty (30) days to
begin implementation. If, at any time after the plan has been approved, the
director determines the plan is inadequate to fulfill the required elements of
this article, the director may, in writing, require the cart owner to modify or
submit a new plan. Such a modification may include, but is not limited to,
requiring the cart owner to identify a new person to retrieve carts or changing
the physical loss prevention measure. If the director requires the cart owner
to modify or submit a new plan, the cart owner shall be given a reasonable time
to comply and shall be provided an appeal to the administrative hearing
officer. A new plan or modified plan is subject to a fee for its review as
provided in the master fee schedule.
   (E)   On-Site Cart Containment System Program Required: Every cart owner
shall operate and maintain an on-site cart containment program as defined in
subsection
8-4-2(K). A cart owner may be exempted from this requirement if he or she
provides proof of contracting with a qualified cart retrieval service and
submits information to the director which demonstrates to the satisfaction of
the director that the qualified cart retrieval service will: (i) actively
locate shopping carts within city limits; and (ii) respond to complaints from
the public in a manner which results in the retrieval of shopping carts within
twenty four (24) hours after receiving complaints. Whoever is identified by the
cart owner as the party responsible for retrieval of the carts shall be made
available for cart retrieval six (6) days a week, eight (8) hours a day or
during the cart owner's business hours, whichever is shorter.
   (F)   Violations: Violation of any provision of this section, including, but
not limited to, failure to submit a plan or comply with a plan submitted, is a
violation of this article and the city may pursue any available remedy provided
under section
8-4-3 for a code violation, including the issuance of an administrative
citation. (Ord. 2020-2, 2-3-2020)
8-4-4: UNLAWFUL POSSESSION AND ABANDONMENT OF CARTS:
Any person who violates any prohibition of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor as provided in California Business and Professions Code section
22435.3. This section shall not apply to carts removed as authorized by the
cart owner, pursuant to California Business and Professions Code section
22435.4, including for the purposes of maintenance, repair or disposal. It is
unlawful to do any of the following acts, if a cart has a permanently affixed
sign as provided in California Business and Professions Code section 22435.1:
   (A)   To remove a cart from the business premises of a retail or commercial
establishment with the intent to temporarily or permanently deprive the cart
owner of possession of the cart.
   (B)   To be in possession of any cart that has been removed from the
business premises of a retail or commercial establishment with the intent to
temporarily or permanently deprive the cart owner of possession of the cart.
There shall be a rebuttable presumption that a person in possession of a cart
bearing a cart Identification Sign or other permanently affixed sign
identifying the retail or other establishment that owns the cart is in
possession of stolen property which presumption shall create a reasonable
suspicion of a violation of law warranting immediate impoundment of the cart as
provided by this chapter. The presumption may be rebutted by written proof of
purchase of the cart or of consent by the owner to use of the cart off-site of
the business premises.
   (C)   To be in possession of any cart with serial numbers or the permanently
affixed sign identifying the retail or other establishment that owns the cart
removed, obliterated, or altered, with the intent to temporarily or permanently
deprive the cart owner of possession of the cart. There shall be a rebuttable
presumption that a person in possession of a cart with serial numbers or the
permanently affixed sign identifying the retail or other establishment that
owns the cart removed, obliterated, or altered is in possession of stolen
property which presumption shall create a reasonable suspicion of a violation
of law warranting immediate impoundment of the cart as provided by this
chapter. The presumption may be rebutted by written proof of purchase of the
cart or of the consent by the owner to use of the cart off-site of the business
premises and to the removal, obliteration or alteration of any identifying
mark, sign or serial number.
   (D)   To leave or abandon a cart at a location other than the business
premises of the retail or commercial establishment with the intent to
temporarily or permanently deprive the cart owner of possession of the cart.
Any cart that is not in the possession of a person, whether or not the cart is
identifiable as being the property of any retail or other business
establishment that is on public property or private property visible and
accessible from any public property shall be conclusively presumed to be
abandoned warranting immediate impoundment of the cart as provided in this
chapter.
   (E)   To alter, convert, or tamper with a cart or to remove any part or
portion thereof or to remove, obliterate or alter serial numbers on a cart,
with the intent to temporarily or permanently deprive the cart owner or
retailer of the possession of the cart.
   (F)   To be in possession of any cart while that cart is not located on the
business premises of the retail or commercial establishment which owns the
cart, with the intent to temporarily or permanently deprive the cart owner or
retailer of possession of the cart. The rebuttable presumption provided for by
subdivision (B) and (C) of this section shall apply, and be rebuttable in the
same manner, with respect to any person in possession of a cart not located on
the business premises of the retail or commercial establishment which owns the
cart. (Ord. 2020-2, 2-3-2020)
8-4-5: CITY RETRIEVAL OF CARTS:
The city may retrieve an abandoned cart from public property (or private
property that is accessible and visible from public property or with the
consent of the property owner) in the following circumstances:
   (A)   Where the location of the shopping cart will impede emergency
services.
   (B)   When the abandoned cart does not identify the cart owner as required
in subsection
8-4-3(A).
   (C)   When the city has contacted the cart owner and notified him or her of
the abandoned cart and the cart has not been reclaimed within three (3)
business days.
   (D)   When the circumstances give rise to any of the presumptions provided
for by section
8-4-4 of this chapter. (Ord. 2020-2, 2-3-2020)
8-4-6: IMMEDIATE IMPOUND BY CITY OF IDENTIFIED CARTS:
Notwithstanding any other section of this article, the city may immediately
impound a cart without complying with the three (3) day advance notice
requirement provided by section
8-4-5 of this chapter when the circumstances give rise to any of the
presumptions provided for by section
8-4-4 of this chapter or where the city actually notifies the cart owner within
twenty four (24) hours that the city has impounded the cart and provides
information to the cart owner relative to where and how the cart may be
reclaimed. The city shall hold the cart at a location that is reasonably
convenient to the cart owner and open for business at least six (6) hours a day
Monday through Thursday. Any cart reclaimed by the cart owner within three (3)
business days following the date of actual notice shall be released and
surrendered to the cart owner at no charge, including a waiver of any impound
and storage fees or fines. Any cart reclaimed within three (3) business days
shall not be deemed an occurrence for purposes of section
8-4-8(A). If the cart is not reclaimed by the cart owner within three (3)
business days, the city may collect its actual costs, impose a fine, and
dispose of the cart consistent with the provisions of section
8-4-8, provided the city has actually notified the cart owner that it has
impounded the cart. (Ord. 2020-2, 2-3-2020)
8-4-7: POSSESSION OF CARTS BY RECYCLING CENTERS:
Any recycling center that comes into possession of a cart shall not sell or use
the cart for any purpose and shall comply with the requirements of this section
as follows:
   (A)   Carts With Identification Signs: Any recycling center that possesses a
cart with cart identification signs shall notify the cart owner of the cart's
location. After notifying the cart owner, the recycling center shall hold the
cart on its premises for three (3) business days to ensure that the cart will
not be sold or otherwise recirculated to the public. If the cart is not
reclaimed by the cart owner within three (3) business days after receiving
notice, the recycling center shall notify the city's code enforcement officer
and arrange for the city to retrieve the cart.
   (B)   Carts Without Identification Signs: Any recycling center that
possesses a cart without a cart identification sign shall notify the city's
code enforcement officer and arrange for the city to retrieve the cart. The
recycling center shall hold the cart on its premises to ensure that the cart
will not be sold or otherwise recirculated to the public. (Ord. 2020-2, 2-3-
2020)
8-4-8: ENFORCEMENT AND REMEDIES:
The city may exercise the following remedies:
   (A)   Pursuant to California Business and Professions Code section 22435.7,
any cart owner that fails to retrieve its abandoned cart(s) within three (3)
business days after receiving notice from the city, shall pay the city's
administrative costs for retrieving the cart(s) as based on the master fee
schedule. Any cart owner who fails to retrieve abandoned carts in accordance
with this chapter in excess of three (3) times during a specified six (6) month
period shall be subject to administrative citation.
   (B)   If a cart is not retrieved by its owner within thirty (30) days after
the cart owner has received notice of the cart being impounded, including a
failure to pay costs and fines, or if the cart owner cannot be determined, the
cart will be sold, destroyed or otherwise disposed of as the city sees fit.
   (C)   Following the city having retrieved more than ten (10) carts in any
thirty (30) day period or the issuance of more than ten (10) administrative
citations in any twelve (12) month period, the director may require the cart
owner to install a physical containment system. (Ord. 2020-2, 2-3-2020)
8-4-9: SEVERABILITY CLAUSE:
If any provision, paragraph, word or section of this article is invalidated by
any court of competent jurisdiction, the remaining provisions, paragraphs,
words, and sections shall not be affected and shall continue in full force and
effect. (Ord. 2020-2, 2-3-2020)
8-4-10: CUMULATIVE REMEDY:
Nothing herein is intended to limit the city from pursuing any other remedy
available at law or in equity against any person or entity maintaining,
committing, or causing a public nuisance or any other violation of the Code or
state or federal law. (Ord. 2020-2, 2-3-2020)
CHAPTER 5
NUISANCES; ABATEMENT
SECTION:
8-5-1: Public Nuisance Defined
8-5-2: Nuisances Affecting Health
8-5-3: Nuisances Affecting Morals And Decency
8-5-4: Nuisances Affecting Peace And Safety
8-5-5: Violation; Penalty (Rep. by Ord. 2001-8, 11-19-2001)
8-5-6: Abatement Notice
8-5-7: Abatement By The Owner
8-5-8: Abatement By The City
8-5-9: Assessment Of Cost
8-5-10: Procedure Of Abatement Not Exclusive
8-5-1: PUBLIC NUISANCE DEFINED:
A "nuisance" is a thing, act, occupation or use of property which:
   (A)   Shall annoy, injure or endanger the safety, health, comfort or repose
of the public.
   (B)   Shall unlawfully interfere with, obstruct or tend to obstruct or
render dangerous for passage a public park, square, street, alley or highway.
   (C)   Shall offend public decency.
   (D)   Shall in any way render the public insecure in life or in use of
property. (1963 Code)
8-5-2: NUISANCES AFFECTING HEALTH:
The following are hereby declared to be nuisances affecting health:
   (A)   All decayed or unwholesome food offered for sale to the public.
   (B)   All diseased animals running at large.
   (C)   All ponds or pools of stagnant water.
   (D)   Carcasses of animals not buried or destroyed within twenty four (24)
hours after death.
   (E)   Accumulations of manure or rubbish.
   (F)   Privy vaults and garbage cans which are not flytight.
   (G)   The pollution of any public or private well or cistern, stream, lake,
canal or body of water by sewage, creamery or industrial wastes or other
substances. (1963 Code)
   (H)   (Rep. by Ord. 849, 12-20-1982)
   (I)   All public exposure of persons having a contagious disease.
   (J)   The use of a common public drinking cup or roller towel.
   (K)   The distribution of samples of medicine or drugs unless such samples
are placed in the hands of an adult person.
   (L)   All other acts, omissions of acts, occupations and uses of property
which are deemed by the board of health to be a nuisance to the health of the
inhabitants of this city or any considerable number thereof.
   (M)   Dense smoke, noxious fumes, gas and soot or cinders in unreasonable
quantities. (1963 Code)
8-5-3: NUISANCES AFFECTING MORALS AND DECENCY:
The following are hereby declared to be nuisances affecting public morals and
decency:
   (A)   All houses kept for the purpose of prostitution or promiscuous
intercourse, gambling houses, houses of ill fame and bawdyhouses.
   (B)   All domestic animals in the act of copulation exposed to public view.
   (C)   All places where intoxicating liquor is manufactured, sold, bartered
or given away in violation of law.
   (D)   All indecent or obscene pictures, books, pamphlets, magazines and
newspapers.
   (E)   Betting, bookmaking, prizefighting and all apparatus used in such
occupations in violation of law. (1963 Code)
8-5-4: NUISANCES AFFECTING PEACE AND SAFETY:
The following are declared to be nuisances affecting public peace and safety:
   (A)   All trees, hedges, billboards or other obstructions which prevent
persons from having a clear view of traffic approaching an intersection from
cross streets in sufficient time to bring a motor vehicle driven at a
reasonable speed to a full stop before the intersection is reached.
   (B)   All limbs of trees which are less than eight feet (8') above the
surface of any street or sidewalk.
   (C)   All wires which are strung less than fifteen feet (15') above the
surface of the ground, except clotheslines.
   (D)   All explosives, inflammable liquids and other dangerous substances
stored in any manner or in any amount in violation of any law.
   (E)   All use or display of fireworks in violation of law.
   (F)   All unnecessary noise and annoying vibrations.
   (G)   All buildings and alterations to buildings made or erected within the
fire limits as established in this code in violation of the regulations
concerning manner and materials of construction.
   (H)   Obstructions and excavations affecting the ordinary use by the public
of streets, alleys, sidewalks or public grounds except under such conditions as
are provided by law.
   (I)   Radio aerials strung in any manner in violation of any law.
   (J)   Any use of property abutting upon a public street or sidewalk or any
use of a public street or sidewalk which causes large crowds of people to
gather, obstructing traffic and the free use of the streets and sidewalks.
   (K)   The allowing of rain water, ice or snow to fall from any building or
structure upon any street or sidewalk or to flow across any sidewalk.
   (L)   All dangerous unguarded machinery in any public place or so situated
or operated on private property as to attract the public.
   (M)   All use of stationary loudspeakers in any part of the city in such
manner as to annoy any of the inhabitants of the city.
   (N)   All irrigation water permitted to run in the streets or alleys of the
city except such as is confined in irrigation ditches or flumes.
   (O)   All other conditions or things which are liable to cause injury to the
person or property of anyone. (1963 Code)
8-5-5: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
(Rep. by Ord. 2001-8, 11-19-2001)
8-5-6: ABATEMENT NOTICE:
   (A)   Upon determination by the council that a "nuisance", as defined in
this chapter, exists, the council shall forthwith cause a notice to be posted
on the premises liable for the nuisance directing the removal or abatement of
such nuisance.
   (B)   At the time of posting, the council shall cause a copy of such notice
to be forwarded by registered or certified mail, postage prepaid, to the owner
or agent in charge of the property at the last known address of such owner or
agent.
   (C)   The notice to abate shall contain:
      1.   A description of the real property, by street address or otherwise,
on which or adjacent to which the nuisance exists.
      2.   A direction to remove the nuisance within fifteen (15) days from the
date of the notice.
      3.   A description of the nuisance.
      4.   A statement that unless such nuisance is removed or abated the city
will do so and the cost thereof shall be a lien against the property.
      5.   A statement that the owner or agent in charge of the property may
protest the action by giving notice to the recorder within fifteen (15) days
from the date of mailing of the notice.
   (D)   The person posting and mailing the notice as provided herein shall,
upon completion of the posting and mailing, execute and file in the office of
the recorder a certificate stating the date and place of such mailing and
posting.
   (E)   An error in the name or address of the owner or agent in charge of the
property or the use of a name other than that of the owner or agent shall not
make the notice void and in such a case the posted notice shall be deemed
sufficient. (1963 Code)
8-5-7: ABATEMENT BY THE OWNER:
   (A)   Within the time allowed by the notice as provided in section
8-5-6 of this chapter, the owner or agent in charge of the property shall
remove and abate the nuisance or show that no nuisance exists.
   (B)   The owner or agent in charge protesting that no nuisance in fact
exists shall file with the council a written statement which shall specify the
basis for contending that no nuisance exists.
   (C)   The statement of protest shall be a part of the council's regular
agenda at its next succeeding meeting. At the time set for the consideration of
the abatement, the owner or agent may appear and be heard by the council and
the council shall thereupon determine whether a nuisance in fact exists and
such determination shall be entered in the official minutes of the council.
Council determination shall be required only in those cases where a written
protest has been filed as provided herein.
   (D)   Upon council determination that a nuisance does in fact exist, the
owner or agent in charge shall within a reasonable time as determined by the
council and within a period of not more than fifteen (15) days, remove or abate
such nuisance. (1963 Code)
8-5-8: ABATEMENT BY THE CITY:
   (A)   If within the time fixed, as provided in this chapter, the nuisance
has not been abated by the owner or agent in charge of the property, the
council shall cause the nuisance to be abated.
   (B)   The council (or official in charge) shall maintain an accurate record
of the expense incurred by the city in abating the nuisance and shall include
therein an overhead charge of ten percent (10%) of the total cost for
administration.
   (C)   The total cost, including the administrative overhead, shall thereupon
be assessed to the property as hereinafter provided. (1963 Code)
8-5-9: ASSESSMENT OF COST:
   (A)   A notice of the assessment shall be forwarded by registered or
certified mail, postage prepaid, to the owner or agent in charge of the
property by the recorder. The notice shall contain:
      1.   The total cost, including the administrative overhead, of the
abatement.
      2.   A statement that the cost as indicated will become a lien against
the property unless paid within sixty (60) days.
      3.   A statement that if the owner or agent in charge of the property
objects to the cost of the abatement as indicated, he may file a notice of
objection with the recorder within thirty (30) days from the date of the
notice.
   (B)   Objections to the proposed assessment shall be heard and determined by
the council in the regular course of its business.
   (C)   An assessment for the cost of the abatement as determined by the
council shall be made by resolution of the council and shall thereupon be
entered in the docket of city liens, and upon such entry being made, it shall
constitute a lien against the property from which the nuisance was removed or
abated.
   (D)   The lien shall be collected in the same manner as liens for street
improvements are collected, and shall bear interest at the rate of six percent
(6%) per annum. Such interest shall commence to run thirty (30) days after
entry in the lien docket.
   (E)   An error in the name of the owner or agent in charge of the property
shall not void the assessment nor will a failure to receive the notice of the
assessment render the assessment void, but it shall remain a valid lien against
the property. (1963 Code)
8-5-10: PROCEDURE OF ABATEMENT NOT EXCLUSIVE:
The procedure provided by this chapter is not exclusive, but in addition to
procedure provided by other provisions of this code, and furthermore, the
health officer and the police officers of this city may proceed summarily to
abate a sanitary or other nuisance which unmistakably exists and from which
there is imminent danger to human life or property. (1963 Code)
CHAPTER 6
WATER WELL CONTROL
SECTION:
8-6-1: Purpose
8-6-2: Definitions
8-6-3: State Reporting
8-6-4: Acts Prohibited, Permit Required
8-6-5: Inspections
8-6-6: Expiration of Permit
8-6-7: Standards
8-6-8: Variances
8-6-9: Revocation or Suspension
8-6-10: Investigation
8-6-11: Order to Abate Nuisance
8-6-12: Appeal From Denial, Revocation or Suspension of Permit, and From Order
of Abatement
8-6-13: Abatement by the City
8-6-14: Payment of Cost by Owner
8-6-15: Abatement of Safety Hazard
8-6-1: PURPOSE:
It is the purpose of this Chapter to provide for the construction, repair and
reconstruction of wells to the end that the ground water of this City will not
be polluted or contaminated and that water obtained from such wells will be
suitable for the purpose for which used and will not jeopardize the health,
safety or welfare of the people of this City, for the destruction of abandoned
wells, and for the abatement of wells found to be public nuisances to the end
that all such wells will not cause pollution or contamination of ground water
or otherwise jeopardize the health, safety or welfare of the people of this
City.
8-6-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this Chapter, the following words shall have the meaning provided in
this Section:
   (A)   "Well" or "water well" means any artificial excavation constructed by
any method for the purpose of extracting water from or injecting water into the
underground. "Well" or "water well" shall not include:
      1.   Oil and gas wells, or geothermal wells constructed under the
jurisdiction of the Department of Conservation, except those wells converted to
use as water wells; or
      2.   Wells used for the purpose of dewatering excavation during
construction, or stabilizing hillsides or earth embankments.
   (B)   "Community water supply well" means a water well used to supply water
for domestic purposes in systems subject to Chapter 7 of Part 1 of Division 5
of the California Health and Safety Code (commencing with Section 4010).
   (C)   "Individual domestic well" means a water well used to supply water for
domestic needs or an individual residence or commercial establishment.
   (D)   "Industrial wells" means water wells used to supply industry on an
individual basis.
   (E)   "Agricultural wells" means water wells used to supply water for
irrigation or other agricultural purposes, including so-called "stock wells".
   (F)   "Contamination" means an impairment of the quality of water to a
degree which creates a hazard to the public health through poisoning or through
spread of disease.
   (G)   "Pollution" means an alteration of the quality of water to a degree
which unreasonably affects (1) such waters for beneficial uses, or (2)
facilities which serve such beneficial uses. "Pollution" may include
contamination.
   (H)   "Person" means any person, firm, corporation or governmental agency.
   (I)   "Order of abatement" means both mandatory and prohibitory orders
requiring or prohibiting one or more acts; said term shall also include those
orders effective for a limited as well as an indefinite period of time, and
shall include modifications or restatements of any order.
   (J)   "Abatement" means the construction, reconstruction, repair or
destruction of a well so as to eliminate a nuisance caused by a well polluting
or contaminating ground water.
   (K)   "Health Officer" means the City Health Officer or his authorized
representative.
8-6-3: STATE REPORTING:
Nothing contained in this Ordinance shall be deemed to release any person from
compliance with the provisions of Article 3, Chapter 10, Division 7, of the
Water Code of the State of California or any successor hereto.
8-6-4: ACTS PROHIBITED, PERMIT REQUIRED:
No person shall, within the incorporated area of the City, construct, repair,
reconstruct or abandon any well unless a written permit has first been obtained
from the Health Officer of the City, as provided in this Chapter, and the work
conforms to the conditions of such permit and this Chapter. Applications for
such permits shall be made on the forms provided for that purpose and in
accordance with procedure established by the City Health Department.
Each such application shall be accompanied by a filing fee set by resolution of
the City Council. No part of the fee shall be refundable.
Within ten (10) business days after receipt of the application, the City Health
Officer shall either grant, conditionally grant, or deny the permit. If the
application is not acted upon within said ten (10) day period, the application
shall be deemed granted. A permit shall not be issued if, in the judgment of
the Health Officer, the well may jeopardize the health, safety or welfare of
the people of Selma.
Construction, reconstruction, repair and destruction of wells shall be
performed by a contractor with a C-57 Contracting License, or an equivalent
issued by the Department of Professional and Vocational Standards; provided,
however, that a property owner may construct, reconstruct, repair or destruct a
well on his own property, which well serves or will serve said property that is
neither being offered for sale nor intended to be so offered.
8-6-5: INSPECTIONS:
   (A)   Upon receipt of an application, an inspection of the well location
shall be made by the Health Officer precedent to issuance of a well permit.
   (B)   After work has been completed, the Health Officer shall be notified by
the person performing the work and the Health Department shall make a final
inspection of the completed work to determine compliance with the well
standards.
8-6-6: EXPIRATION OF PERMIT:
Each permit issued pursuant to this Chapter shall expire and become null and
void if the work authorized thereby has not been completed within one year
following the issuance of the permit.
Upon expiration of any permit issued pursuant hereto, no further work may be
done in connection with construction, repair, reconstruction or abandonment of
a well unless and until a new permit for such purpose is secured in accordance
with the provisions of this Chapter.
8-6-7: STANDARDS:
Standards for the construction, repair, reconstruction or abandonment of wells
shall be as set forth in Chapter II of the Department of Water Resources
Bulletin No. 74, "Water Well Standards" (February 1968) and Department of Water
Resources Bulletin No. 74-1, "Cathodic Protection Well Standards" (March 1973),
or as subsequently revised or supplemented, which are hereby incorporated by
reference.
8-6-8: VARIANCES:
The Health Officer shall have the power to allow variances from the standards
referred to in Section
8-6-7, so as to prevent unnecessary hardship or injustice and at the same time
accomplish the general purpose and intent of the standards.
8-6-9: REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION:
   (A)   A permit issued hereunder may be revoked or suspended by the Health
Officer as hereinafter provided if he determines that a violation of this
Chapter exists, that written notice has been directed to permittee specifying
the violation and that the permittee has failed or neglected to make the
necessary adjustments within thirty (30) days after receiving such notice.
   (B)   A permit may be so revoked or suspended by the Health Officer if he
determines at a hearing for such purpose that the person to whom any permit was
issued pursuant to this Chapter has obtained the same by fraud or
misrepresentation, provided that notice of the time and place of such hearing
is given to the permittee at least five (5) days prior thereto.
   (C)   The suspension or revocation of any permit shall not be effective
until notice thereof in writing is mailed to the permittee, and the time for
filing an appeal to the City Council has expired. The notice shall advise the
permittee of his right to appeal to the City Council and to stay the suspension
or revocation pending such appeal.
8-6-10: INVESTIGATION:
The Health Officer may, upon reasonable cause to believe that an abandoned well
or other well is causing a nuisance by polluting or contaminating ground water,
investigate the situation to determine whether such a nuisance does in fact
exist. He shall have the power, when in the performance of his duty and upon
first presenting his credentials and identifying himself as an employee of the
Health Department to the person apparently in control of the premises, if
available, to enter upon any such premises between the hours of eight o'clock
(8:00) A.M. and six o'clock (6:00) P.M., to discover or inspect any thing or
condition which appears to indicate such a nuisance. He may examine such
premises, things or conditions, take such samples and make such tests as needed
and take any other steps reasonably necessary for the proper investigation and
determination of whether such a nuisance exists.
8-6-11: ORDER TO ABATE NUISANCE:
Whenever the Health Officer determines that an abandoned or other well is
causing a nuisance by polluting or contaminating ground water, he may issue a
written order requiring that the conditions productive of the nuisance be
abated within a period of ten (10) days thereafter and shall forthwith serve
the order upon the person occupying the premises, if any, and if no person
occupies the premises, the order shall be posted upon said premises in a
conspicuous place. In addition, a copy shall be mailed to the owners of the
premises as their names and addresses appear upon the last equalized assessment
roll. The Health Officer may for good cause extend the time specified in the
order or otherwise modify or rescind the order.
The order of abatement shall advise the possessors and owners of the property
of their right to appeal to the City Council and to stay the order of abatement
pending such appeal.
8-6-12: APPEAL FROM DENIAL, REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION OF PERMIT, AND FROM ORDER
OF ABATEMENT:
Any person whose application for a permit has been denied or whose permit one
issued has been revoked or suspended, or who has been given an order of
abatement may, within ten (10) days following the receipt of the notice of such
denial, suspension or revocation, or of the order of abatement, file an appeal
in writing to the City Council. Said appeal shall be accompanied by a filing
fee of twenty five dollars ($25.00) and shall specify the grounds upon which
the appeal is taken. The City Clerk shall then proceed to set the matter for
hearing, not later than twenty (20) days thereafter, and such appeal shall stay
the effect of any order or action until the City Council hears the appeal and
issues its order either to affirm, overrule or modify the action of the Health
Officer. Notice of the hearing shall be mailed to the appealing party at least
five (5) days prior to the hearing.
8-6-13: ABATEMENT BY THE CITY:
In the event that a nuisance is not abated in accordance with an Order of
Abatement, the Health Officer may, upon securing the approval of the City
Council, proceed to abate the nuisance by force account, contract or any other
method deemed most expedient by the City Council.
8-6-14: PAYMENT OF COST BY OWNER:
The Health Officer shall prepare and file with the City Clerk a report
specifying the work done, the itemized and total cost of the work, a
description of the real property upon which the well is or was located, and the
names and addresses of the record owner, the holder of any mortgage or deed or
trust of record, and any other person known to have a legal interest in the
property.
A hearing shall be held on said report and any protests or objections thereto,
and notice of the hearing shall be mailed to the persons with a legal interest
in the property at least ten (10) days prior to the date set for the hearing.
The City Council shall determine at the hearing the correct charge to be made
for the work. If such costs are not paid by the owner of said property within
thirty (30) days of the determination by the City Council, they shall be
assessed upon the property involved as a special assessment. The special
assessment will then be collected at the same time and in the same manner as
City taxes are collected, and shall be subject to the same penalties and the
same procedure and sale in case of delinquency as is provided for ordinary City
taxes. All laws applicable to the levy, collection and enforcement of City
taxes shall be applicable to such special assessment.
8-6-15: ABATEMENT OF SAFETY HAZARD:
This Chapter shall not affect the right of the City to abate as a public
nuisance, pursuant to Article 9, Chapter 1, Division 1, Title 5, of the
Government Code (commencing with Section 50230) any abandoned well which
presents a safety hazard. (Ord. 701; 5-21-73; Eff. 6-20-73)
CHAPTER 7
PROPERTY MAINTENANCE
SECTION:
8-7-1: Applicability
8-7-2: Penalties
8-7-3: More Restrictive Provisions In Other Laws And Ordinances
8-7-4: Not Exclusive Regulations
8-7-5: Maintenance Of Property
8-7-6: Procedures For Abatement
8-7-7: Definitions
8-7-1: APPLICABILITY:
The provisions of this Chapter shall apply to all properties, structures and
dwellings, or portions thereof within the City. (Ord. 95-7, 8-7-95)
8-7-2: PENALTIES:
   (A)   Any person, firm, corporation or organization violating any provision
of this Chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor or, at the discretion of the
City Attorney, an infraction. A person, firm, corporation or organization shall
be deemed guilty of a separate offense for each day during any portion of which
a violation of this Chapter is committed, continued or permitted by the person,
firm, corporation or organization.
   (B)   Penalties for infractions shall be set by resolution of the City
Council. The City Council shall periodically review the penalties for
infractions and set new penalties by resolution as required to maintain the
effectiveness of this Chapter.
   (C)   All remedies provided for herein shall be cumulative and exclusive.
(Ord. 95-7, 8-7-95)
8-7-3: MORE RESTRICTIVE PROVISIONS IN OTHER LAWS AND ORDINANCES:
Notwithstanding anything set forth or provided for in this Chapter, if other
provisions of the Municipal Code, or other applicable laws, rules, or
regulations, are more restrictive than the provisions set forth in this
Chapter, then the other such laws, rules, or regulations shall be applicable.
(Ord. 95-7, 8-7-95)
8-7-4: NOT EXCLUSIVE REGULATIONS:
This Chapter is not an exclusive regulation of nuisances, unsafe structures and
housing within the City. It shall supplement and be in addition to all other
regulatory laws, codes or ordinances. (Ord. 95-7, 8-7-95)
8-7-5: MAINTENANCE OF PROPERTY:
All property within the City shall be maintained in accordance with the
following minimum standards:
   (A)   No dangerous building or structure shall be kept upon any property.
   (B)   No abandoned buildings, partially destroyed, or partially constructed
or uncompleted buildings after building permits have expired shall be kept upon
any property.
   (C)   Buildings shall be maintained in a condition such that deteriorated or
peeling exterior treatments shall not permit the effects of the sun and water
penetration to cause or encourage decay, dry rot, warping, cracking or similar
deterioration of the building.
   (D)   All windows, doors, attic vents, underfloor vents and similar building
features shall be maintained in an unbroken state.
   (E)   All fences and walls shall be maintained in good repair and in a safe
condition.
   (F)   All landscape and yard areas shall be maintained in accordance with
the following standards:
      1.   All landscaped areas, trees, shrubs and decorative plants shall be
maintained in a manner which is consistent with other similar areas within the
neighborhood.
      2.   No lawns visible to the public right of way shall be maintained with
grass in excess of ten inches (10") in height. No lawn shall be kept in a
condition which would cause it to become a potential fire hazard.
      3.   Vegetation shall be maintained in a manner such that it will not
attract vermin.
      4.   Dead, dying or diseased trees and shrubbery should be removed.
   (G)   Lumber or salvage materials shall not be stored in any area which is
visible to public streets or neighboring properties at ground level. These
items may be kept on commercial and industrial properties provided they are
screened from view at ground level from adjacent properties and public rights
of way, and all approvals required by title XI of this code have been attained
and any conditions of approval have been complied with.
   (H)   Junk, trash, rubbish, garbage, vegetation clippings or debris shall
not be stored on any property for more than one hundred forty four (144) hours,
except during construction activity. Materials may be stored for recycling
purposes providing that the materials shall be screened from public view and
shall not be collected in any quantity or fashion which may create an unsafe
condition.
   (I)   No abandoned, discarded or unused furniture, household appliances,
household fixtures or similar equipment shall be kept on any residential
property. These items may be kept on commercial and industrial properties
provided they are screened from view at ground level from adjacent properties
and public rights of way, and all approvals required by title XI of this code
have been attained and any conditions of approval have been complied with.
   (J)   No abandoned, wrecked, or dismantled vehicles shall be kept on any
residential property for more than seventy two (72) hours. These items may be
kept on commercial and industrial properties provided they are screened from
view at ground level from adjacent properties and public rights of way, and all
approvals required by title XI of this code have been attained and any
conditions of approval have been complied with.
   (K)   No used vehicle tires, discarded parts or portions of vehicles shall
be kept on any residential property for more than seventy two (72) hours. These
items may be kept on commercial and industrial properties provided they are
screened from view at ground level from adjacent properties and public rights
of way, and all approvals required by title XI of this code have been attained
and any conditions of approval have been complied with.
   (L)   No storage of dirt, stone, bark or similar materials shall be
permitted on any residential property, except temporary storage during
construction or installation of landscaping. (Ord. 95-7, 8-7-1995)
   (M)   All buildings and structures shall be kept free of any defacing due to
graffiti. The owner shall remove graffiti within forty eight (48) hours of
written notification by city officials. If after written notification the owner
fails to remove the graffiti, the city may remove the graffiti. In the event
the city removes the graffiti, the city may place a lien against the property
for the full cost of such removal. In the event the city places a lien on the
property, it shall serve a notice of assessment on the owner in accordance with
subsection
8-7-6(B)3(b) of this chapter. (Ord. 2005-9, 10-3-2005)
   (N)   No hanging and/or drying of laundry shall be permitted in any required
front or side yard which is visible from a public right of way. No laundry
shall be hung on a fence at any time.
   (O)   Hazardous materials shall be stored in proper containers and shall not
be stored in quantities in excess of three (3) gallons on residential property
at any time. No hazardous materials shall be dumped or stored in a condition
such that it will cause ground contamination on any residential, commercial or
industrial property. (Ord. 95-7, 8-7-1995)
8-7-6: PROCEDURES FOR ABATEMENT:
   (A)   Dangerous and unsafe structures. See title IV of this code.
   (B)   Nuisance abatement other than dangerous and unsafe structures.
      1.   First And Second Offense For Similar Nuisance:
         (a)   Notice: Upon identification of a violation of this chapter, the
community development director or his authorized representative shall issue a
notice to the occupant of the property, if any, and mail a copy of the notice
to the owner of the property as shown on the latest tax assessment rolls of the
Fresno County assessor. A copy of the notice shall be kept by the community
development department. The notice shall contain the following information:
            (1) The location of the subject property by street number and/or
the approximate location of the property if no street address is available.
            (2) A description of the nuisance.
            (3) A direction to abate the nuisance within fifteen (15) days from
the date on the notice.
            (4) A statement that the owner of the property may appeal the
notice to the Planning Commission within ten (10) days of the date shown on the
notice. In the event of an appeal, the owner shall be responsible for paying
all applicable fees required for processing an appeal. If the appeal is
successful, any fees paid to the City for processing the appeal shall be
refunded.
If significant progress is being made to abate the nuisance or an unusual
hardship would be created by strict imposition of the fifteen (15) day
abatement period, the Community Development Director may at his discretion
extend the time allowed to abate the nuisance up to fifteen (15) additional
days.
         (b)   Citation: If the nuisance has not been abated prior to the
deadlines stated in subsection
8-7-6(B)(1)(a), then the Community Development Director or his authorized
representative shall issue a citation for an infraction, unless a determination
has been made by the City Attorney that a misdemeanor charge is more
appropriate. The citation shall be issued to the property owner where the
nuisance exists by certified mail or by personal delivery to the owner. If the
property has an occupant other than the owner, a copy of the citation shall
also be posted at the property or delivered to the occupant. The citation shall
contain the following:
            (1) The location of the subject property by street number and
assessor parcel number.
            (2) A description of the nuisance and the applicable Municipal Code
section.
            (3) A notice to appear before the Municipal Court at a specified
date and time.
            (4) A statement that the City may cause the abatement of the
nuisance and the cost of the abatement shall be a lien against the property.
A copy of the notice shall be kept by the Community Development Department. The
address of the owner shall be taken from the latest County Assessor's office
tax roll.
         (c)   Abatement Prior To Court Date: If the nuisance is abated prior
to the date shown on the citation for a court appearance, the property owner or
his representative may contact the Community Development Director for an
inspection of the property. If the Director finds that the nuisance has been
abated, then the Director or his authorized representative shall transmit such
information to the Municipal Court to have the citation dismissed.
         (d)   Municipal Court: The owner shall be required to appear before
the Municipal Court for a hearing by that Court if the citation has not been
dismissed and received by the Court prior to the hearing date. In addition to
any action required to abate the nuisance, the Court may impose fines in
accordance with the adopted fine schedule and levy any court costs as may be
required by the Court.
      2.   Third And Subsequent Offenses For Similar Nuisances: Third and
subsequent offenses shall follow the procedures stated above except, that there
shall be no courtesy notice issued and the abatement procedures shall begin
with the issuance of a citation.
      3.   The City may abate the nuisance, provided that notice has been given
as set forth above. In the event the City abates the nuisance, the City may
place a lien against the property for the full cost of the abatement. In
accordance with California Government Code section 38773.7, the City may
require the owner to pay treble the costs of abatement, upon entry of a second
or subsequent civil or criminal judgment within a two (2) year period. The
process for recovering expenses for abatement by the City shall be as follows:
         (a)   Recovery Of Costs: Any costs incurred by the City shall be
recovered through a lien against the property. Recoverable costs shall include,
but not be limited to, staff time, materials and cost of abatement by third
parties under contract to the City. An accurate record of the expense incurred
by the City shall be maintained.
         (b)   Notice Of Assessment: The notice of assessment shall be served
in the same manner as a summons in a civil action in accordance with article 3
commencing with section 415.10 of chapter 4 of title 5 of part 2 of the
California Code for Civil Procedure. If the owner of record, after diligent
search cannot be found, the notice may be served by posting a copy thereof upon
the property for a period of ten (10) days and publication thereof in the Selma
Enterprise at least one time. The notice shall contain the following
information:
            (1) The amount of the lien, the date of the abatement order, the
street address, the legal description, assessor's parcel number of the parcel
which the lien is imposed, the name and address of the recorded owner of the
property and the mailing address of the City.
            (2) A statement that the cost will become a lien against the
property unless paid within sixty (60) days of the date of the assessment
notice.
            (3) A statement that if the owner objects to the assessment as
indicated, an appeal may be filed with the City Clerk within thirty (30) days
of the assessment notice.
            (4) The nuisance abatement lien will be recorded in the Fresno
County Recorder's Office and from the date of recording shall have the full
force, effect and priority of a judgment lien.
         (c)   Hearing On Objections: If the owner files an objection within
the thirty (30) day time period, then the City Clerk shall cause the objection
to be placed on the next regular City Council meeting agenda, providing that is
at least ten (10) days notice may be given. The City Council shall review the
evidence and any testimony given at the meeting and make a determination on the
assessment. The action of the City Council shall be final.
         (d)   Any assessment for nuisance abatement shall be as determined by
the City Council by a resolution. (Ord. 95-7, 8-7-95)
8-7-7: DEFINITIONS:
   ABANDONED BUILDING OR STRUCTURE: Any building or structure which has not
been actively utilized for a lawful purpose, which has not been maintained, and
which has not been rendered inaccessible to members of the public by boarding
or similar means, for a continuous period of not less than ninety (90) days.
   BUILDING: A permanently located structure having a roof. House trailers and
other vehicles as regulated under the California Vehicle Code.
   BUILDING OFFICIAL: The Building Official of the City of Selma or his
designated representative.
   DANGEROUS BUILDING OR STRUCTURE: Any building or structure which is in a
condition such that the life, health, property or safety of the public or its
occupants may be endangered shall be a dangerous building or structure.
   DIRECTOR: The Community Development Director of the City of Selma or his
authorized representative.
   JUNK, RUBBISH, OR TRASH: Any unusable or discarded items not being used for
the original purpose for which they were constructed. The terms shall also
include used items which may be recycled.
   NUISANCE: The following shall be defined as public nuisances for the
purposes of this Chapter:
   (A)   Any public nuisance known at common law or in equity jurisprudence.
   (B)   Any dangerous building or structure.
   (C)   Any property or building not maintained in accordance with the
standards set forth in Section
8-7-5 of the Municipal Code.
   (D)   Any condition related to real property which may pose a threat to the
life, health, property or safety of the public or its occupants. (Ord. 95-7, 8-
7-95)
CHAPTER 8
PROPERTY BEAUTIFICATION
(Rep. by Ord. 95-7, 8-7-1995)
CHAPTER 9
WATER CONSERVATION
SECTION:
8-9-1: Purpose
8-9-2: Short Title
8-9-3: Authorization
8-9-4: Application
8-9-5: Waste of Water Prohibition
8-9-6: Outdoor Water Use
8-9-7: Mandatory Conservation Phase Implementation
8-9-8: Design Criteria for Water Conservation in Landscaping
8-9-9: Enforcement
8-9-10: Public Nuisance; Definitions
8-9-11: Enforcement Officers
8-9-1: PURPOSE:
It is the purpose of this Chapter to minimize outdoor water use, control
unnecessary water consumption and to conserve water in landscaping to preserve
the available potable water supply of the City. (Ord. 92-10, 1-19-93)
8-9-2: SHORT TITLE:
This Chapter shall be known as the WATER CONSERVATION ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF
SELMA. (Ord. 91-1, 3-4-91)
8-9-3: AUTHORIZATION:
The City Manager, or his designee, is hereby authorized and directed to
implement the applicable provisions of this Chapter upon their determination
that such implementation is necessary to protect the public welfare and safety.
(Ord. 91-1, 3-4-91)
8-9-4: APPLICATION:
The provisions of this Chapter shall apply to all persons, customers and
property within the limits of the City. (Ord. 91-1, 3-4-91)
8-9-5: WASTE OF WATER PROHIBITION:
The following uses of water are defined as a "waste of water" and are hereby
prohibited except as otherwise authorized:
   (A)   The use of water which allows substantial amounts of water to run off
to a gutter, ditch, or drain. Every water user is deemed to have his water
distribution lines and facilities under his control at all times and to know
the manner and extent of his water use and excess runoff.
   (B)   The excessive use, loss, or escape of water through breaks, leaks or
malfunctions in the water user's plumbing or distribution facilities for any
period of time after such escape of water should reasonably have been
discovered and corrected. It shall be presumed that a period of forty eight
(48) hours after discovery is a reasonable time within which to correct such a
leak or break.
   (C)   The washing of vehicles, building exteriors, sidewalks, driveways,
parking areas, tennis courts, patios, or other paved areas without the use of a
positive shut-off nozzle on the hose, which results in excessive runoff, except
where necessary to dispose of liquids or substances that would endanger the
public's health and safety. (Ord. 930, 5-7-90)
   (D)   The watering of lawns, groundcover and shrubbery shall not be allowed
between certain hours and certain dates to be determined by the City Council.
(Ord. 91-1, 3-4-91)
8-9-6: OUTDOOR WATER USE; WATER CONSERVATION STAGES:
No one within the City shall knowingly make, cause, use or permit the use of
water for residential, commercial, industrial, governmental, or any other
purpose in a manner contrary to any provision of this Chapter, or in an amount
in excess of that use permitted by the conservation stage in effect pursuant to
action taken by the City Manager, or his designee, in accordance with the
provisions of this Chapter. The Director of the Public Works Department shall
promulgate guidelines which shall set forth the criteria for determining when a
particular conservation stage is to be implemented and terminated. Such
guidelines shall be updated when, in the opinion of the Director, the
conditions of the utility system have changed so as to necessitate such update.
The Director shall include in such guidelines a scheduling system designating
allowed days for irrigation by customers. Said guidelines shall be available
for inspection at the City Clerk's office, and the Public Works Department City
Hall offices during normal business hours.
   (A)   Stage 1. Voluntary Conservation: Water users in the City are requested
to voluntarily limit the amount of water used at all times to that amount
absolutely necessary for health, business and irrigation.
   (B)   Stage 2. Voluntary Compliance - Water Alert: Upon implementation by
the City Manager, and publication of notice, the following restrictions shall
apply to all persons. All elements of Stage 1 shall remain in effect in Stage 2
except that: (Ord. 930, 5-7-90)
      1.   Irrigation utilizing individual sprinklers or sprinkler systems of
lawns, gardens, landscaped areas, trees, shrubs, or other plants is permitted
only on days and times as designated by resolution of the City Council.
Irrigation of lawns, gardens, landscaped areas, trees, shrubs, or other plants
is permitted anytime if:
         (a)   A hand-held hose with a positive shut-off nozzle is used;
         (b)   A hand-held, faucet-filled bucket of five (5) gallons or less is
used; or
         (c)   A drip irrigation system is used.
   EXCEPTION: Commercial nurseries, commercial sod farmers, and similar
establishments are exempt from State 2 irrigation restrictions, but will be
requested to curtail all nonessential water use. (Ord. 92-10, 1-19-93)
      2.   The washing of automobiles, trucks, trailers, boats, airplanes and
other types of mobile equipment is permitted only on designated irrigation days
between the hours of seven o'clock (7:00) P.M. and ten o'clock (10:00) A.M.
Such washing, when allowed, shall be done with a hand-held bucket, or a hand-
held hose, equipped with a positive shut-off nozzle for quick rinses.
   EXCEPTION: Washing may be done at any time on the immediate premises of a
commercial car wash or commercial service station. Further, such washing may be
exempted from these regulations if the health, safety and welfare of the public
is contingent upon frequent vehicle cleaning, such as garbage trucks and
vehicles to transport food and perishables.
      3.   The refilling or adding of water to swimming pools, wading pools
and/or spas is permitted only on designated irrigation days between the hours
of seven o'clock (7:00) P.M. and ten o'clock (10:00) A.M.
      4.   The operation of any ornamental fountain or other structure making
similar use of water is prohibited unless the fountain uses a recycling system,
such as an electric pump.
      5.   The washing of sidewalks, driveways, parking areas, courts, patios,
or other paved areas is absolutely prohibited.
      6.   All restaurants are requested to serve water to customers only when
specifically requested by the customers.
   (C)   Stage 3. Mandatory Compliance - Water Warning: Upon implementation by
the City Manager and publication of notice, the following restrictions shall
apply to all persons. All elements of Stage 2 shall remain in effect in Stage 3
except that: (Ord. 930, 5-7-90)
      1.   All outdoor irrigation of lawns, gardens, landscaped areas, trees,
shrubs, or other plants shall occur only on days and between times as
designated by resolution of the City Council, and shall be done utilizing
individual sprinklers, sprinkler systems, drip systems, or hand-held faucet
filled buckets of five (5) gallons or less, with no exceptions. (Ord. 92-10, 1-
19-93)
      2.   The use of water for irrigation of golf greens and tees is permitted
only on designated irrigation days between the hours of eight o'clock (8:00)
P.M. and ten o'clock (10:00) A.M. The irrigation of golf course fairways is
absolutely prohibited.
   (D)   Stage 4. Mandatory Compliance - Water Emergency: Upon implementation
by the City Manager and publication of notice, the following restrictions shall
apply to all persons; all elements of Stage 3 shall remain in effect in Stage 4
except that:
      1.   All outdoor irrigation of vegetation shall be allowed only between
the hours of eight o'clock (8:00) P.M. and twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight on
designated days.
      2.   The washing of automobiles, trucks, trailers, boats, airplanes and
other types of mobile equipment not occurring upon the immediate premises of
commercial car washes and commercial service stations and not in the immediate
interest of the public health, safety and welfare shall be prohibited.
      3.   The washing of automobiles, trucks, trailers, boats, airplanes and
other types of mobile equipment upon the immediate premises of commercial car
washes and commercial service stations, not in the immediate interest of the
public health, safety and welfare shall occur only between the hours of twelve
o'clock (12:00) noon and six o'clock (6:00) P.M.
      4.   The watering of golf course tee areas is prohibited.
      5.   Use of water from fire hydrants shall be limited to firefighting
and/or other activities immediately necessary to maintaining the health,
safety, and welfare of the citizens of Selma.
      6.   Commercial nurseries, commercial sod farmers, and similar
establishments shall water only on designated days between the hours of ten
o'clock (10:00) A.M. and six o'clock (6:00) P.M. and shall use only hand-held
hoses, drip irrigation systems, or hand-held buckets.
      7.   The filling, refilling, or adding of water to swimming pools, wading
pools and/or spas is prohibited.
      8.   The operation of any ornamental fountain or similar structure is
prohibited. (Ord. 930, 5-7-90)
8-9-7: MANDATORY CONSERVATION PHASE IMPLEMENTATION:
The City Public Works Department and California Water Service Company shall
monitor the projected supply and demand for water within the City and shall
recommend to the City Manager the extent of the conservation required through
the implementation and/or termination of particular conservation stages in
order to assure the water supply of the City. Thereafter, the City Manager, as
directed by Administrative policies, may order that the appropriate phase of
water conservation be implemented or terminated in accordance with the
applicable provisions of this Chapter. Said order shall be made by public
announcement and shall be published a minimum of one time in a newspaper of
general circulation and shall continue to be published on a weekly basis as a
poster ad until such time as all restrictions are removed and shall become
effective immediately upon such publication. The City Council will approve the
conservation state at a regularly scheduled meeting within fourteen (14) days
following implementation by the City Manager. (Ord. 930, 5-7-90)
8-9-8: DESIGN CRITERIA FOR WATER CONSERVATION IN LANDSCAPING:
   (A)   Irrigation System Design Criteria: All commercial and industrial
projects requiring landscaping and developer provided landscape for single- and
multi-family residential projects completed after adoption of this Section,
shall comply with the following design criteria for irrigation. All upgraded or
refurbished projects are encouraged to follow these criteria.
      1.   All irrigation systems shall be designed by a licensed landscape
architect, licensed landscape contractor or other appropriate licensed
professional. The person preparing the plans shall certify that all
requirements of this Section are complied with.
      2.   All irrigation systems shall be on an automatic timer. No battery
operated timers shall be permitted.
      3.   All irrigation systems shall be designed to minimize the amount of
over spray between sprinklers and onto any adjacent nonlandscape areas.
      4.   No spray irrigation shall be allowed in any landscape area which is
less than eight feet (8') in width.
      5.   Unless within a turf or similar area, all trees and shrubs shall be
irrigated by drip or similar low flow devices which do not exceed a flow of
sixteen (16) gallons per hour.
      6.   All irrigation systems shall be designed to account for project
specific terrain, soil types, prevalent wind conditions, temperatures, and
other environmental factors to provide the most water efficient irrigation
design.
      7.   The irrigation system design criteria shall not apply to public or
private golf courses, parks, cemeteries, and City maintained parking lots and
medians, although these uses are encouraged to comply with water conserving
irrigation practices.
   (B)   Landscape Design Criteria: All commercial and industrial projects
requiring landscaping and developer provided landscape for single- and multi-
family residential projects, completed after adoption of this Section, shall
comply with the following design criteria for landscaping. All upgraded or
refurbished projects are encouraged to follow the criteria.
      1.   All landscaping plans shall be prepared by a licensed landscape
architect, licensed landscape contractor or other appropriate licensed
professional. The person preparing the plans shall certify that all
requirements of this Section are complied with.
      2.   A maximum of twenty five percent (25%) of the landscape area of a
lot may be turf. The amount of turf area may be increased by five percent (5%)
for each of the following water conservation measures incorporated into the
landscaping:
         (a)   Micro irrigation for trees and shrubs is used (watering heads
which do not exceed sixteen (16) gallons per hour).
         (b)    Rain gauges are used for automatic shut-off during periods of
rain.
         (c)   Soil moisture sensors are used to activate and deactivate
irrigation systems.
         (d)   Use of a drought tolerant turf.
      3.   No turf shall be permitted in any landscape area less than eight
feet (8') in width.
      4.   All plant materials shall be well-suited to the local climate and
require low to moderate water usage. Plants having similar water usage shall be
grouped together in distinct hydrozones. It is recommended that all plant
materials be from the City's recommended plant list.
      5.   All nonturf areas shall be prepared with three inches (3") of mulch
prior to any planting.
      6.   The landscape plans shall include a regular maintenance schedule,
which shall include but not be limited to the following:
         (a)   Inspecting, adjusting and repairing damage to irrigation systems
and landscaping.
         (b)   Resetting automatic controllers to compensate for seasonal
changes.
         (c)   Fertilizing, weeding, pruning and other routine maintenance.
Aerating and dethatching turf areas.
      7.   The landscape design criteria shall not apply to public or private
golf courses, parks, cemeteries, and City maintained parking lots and medians,
although these uses are encouraged to comply with this subsection B.
      8.   The City staff shall develop and have available to the public,
landscape guidelines which outline various water conservation techniques and
recommended plant materials within six (6) months of the adoption of this
Section. (Ord. 92-10, 1-19-93)
8-9-9: ENFORCEMENT:
It is one of the objectives of the City Council of the City that the citizens
of Selma be encouraged to voluntarily comply with the provisions of Sections
8-9-5 and
8-9-6 of this Chapter. Therefore, in furtherance of said objective, the
enforcement of this Chapter will permit issuance of up to three (3) warnings of
violation of Sections
8-9-5 and
8-9-6, by way of written notices of violation to the violating water user,
before the issuance of a citation for said violations.
Not withstanding the foregoing, any person violating any provision of Sections
 8-9-5 and
 8-9-6 shall be deemed guilty of an infraction and upon conviction thereof
shall be punishable by a fine not to exceed five hundred dollars ($500.00).
Each day that a violation continues shall be regarded as a new and separate
offense.
Section
8-9-8 of this Chapter shall be enforced by the Planning Department during the
development review process. The Planning Department shall review and approve
landscape and irrigation plans as per other sections of the Municipal Code.
(Ord. 92-10, 1-19-93)
8-9-10: PUBLIC NUISANCE; DEFINITIONS:
In addition to any other remedies which may otherwise be available to the City,
the City Council of the City hereby makes the following findings and
declarations:
   (A)   The waste of water, as that term is defined herein, on public or
private property within the City is hereby found to contribute to and compound
drought conditions which may, from time to time, exist in the City to the
detriment of one of our most precious and finite resources, to wit; water. Such
conditions cause injury to the health, safety and general welfare of the
citizens of Selma. Therefore, the waste of water within the City on private or
public property, except as expressly permitted hereinabove, is hereby declared
to constitute a public nuisance which may be abated in an action brought on
behalf of the people of the State of California, by the City Attorney, in any
court of competent jurisdiction. (Ord. 930, 5-7-90)
8-9-11: ENFORCEMENT OFFICERS:
   (A)   Compliance: All peace officers and persons authorized by law to issue
citations within the City shall, in conjunction with duties imposed by the law,
diligently enforce the provisions of this Chapter.
   (B)   Authority: Pursuant to the provisions of section 835.5 of the Penal
Code, the following officers and employees of the City are hereby designated as
enforcement officers and authorized to issue citations for enforcement of this
Chapter:
      Director of Public Works
      Public Works Supervisor
      Building Official
      Police officers
      Fire captains
   (C)   Notice: Employees of the California Water Service Company are
authorized by this Chapter to issue written notices of violations of Section
 8-9-5 and
8-9-6, but are not authorized by law to issue citations for said violations.
   (D)   Exceptions: Consideration of written applications for exceptions to
Sections
8-9-5 and
8-9-6 of this Chapter, regarding regulations and restrictions on water use not
otherwise set forth in previous sections of this Chapter shall be as follows:
      1.   Written application for exception to Section
8-9-5 and
8-9-6 of this Chapter shall be submitted to the City Manager. The City Manager
may grant an exception if the following conditions exist:
         (a)   Strict application of those sections would cause an unnecessary
and undue hardship to the applicant, including, but not limited to, adverse
economic impact; or
         (b)   Strict application of those sections would cause a condition
adversely affecting the health, sanitation, fire protection or safety of the
applicant or the public; or
         (c)   Granting the application is not detrimental to the "general
welfare". (Ord. 92-10, 1-19-93)
CHAPTER 10
URBAN STORM WATER QUALITY MANAGEMENT
SECTION:
8-10-1: Title
8-10-2: Purpose And Intent
8-10-3: Definitions
8-10-4: Authority For Administration And Enforcement
8-10-5: Construction And Application
8-10-6: Ultimate Responsibility Of Discharger
8-10-7: Prohibition Of Nonstorm Water Discharge To The Public Storm Drain
System; Exemptions
8-10-8: Operating Facilities Or Activities
8-10-9: Construction Sites
8-10-10: Postconstruction
8-10-11: Cleanup And Notification Requirements
8-10-12: Inspections
8-10-13: Enforcement And Penalties
8-10-14: Conflict With Other Laws
8-10-15: Severability
8-10-16: Penalties
8-10-1: TITLE:
This chapter shall be known as the URBAN STORM WATER QUALITY MANAGEMENT
ORDINANCE of the city of Selma. (Ord. 2007-9, 9-17-2007)
8-10-2: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
The purpose and intent of this chapter is to ensure the health, safety, and
general welfare of citizens, and to protect and enhance the quality of the
city's watercourses, water bodies, and wetlands pursuant to and consistent with
all applicable state and federal laws related to storm water management,
including, but not limited to, the clean water act (33 United States Code
section 1251 et seq.), the national pollution discharge elimination system
regulations (40 code of federal regulations part 122) and the city's storm
water discharge permit for small municipal storm sewer systems (MS4). (Ord.
2007-9, 9-17-2007)
8-10-3: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following words and terms shall be
defined as follows:
   BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES (BMPs): Schedules of activities, prohibitions of
practices, maintenance procedures, and other management practices to prevent or
reduce the discharge of pollutants to storm water. BMPs also include treatment
requirements, operating procedures, and practices to control site runoff,
spillage or leaks, sludge or waste disposal, drainage from outdoor areas, and
activities required to control the discharge from construction sites disturbing
one acre of land or more (in 1 or more phases of construction).
   CALIFORNIA STATE WATER RESOURCES CONTROL BOARD (SWRCB): The state agency
charged with administration of the national pollution discharge elimination
system (NPDES).
   CLEAN WATER ACT: The federal water pollution control act, as amended, 22
United States Code section 1251 et seq.
   DIRECTOR: The public works director.
   DISCHARGE: Any spilling, leaking, pumping, pouring, emitting, emptying,
ejecting, placing, releasing, leaching, dumping or disposing into or on any
land in a manner that may cause pollution.
   ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (EPA): The federal agency charged with
enforcement of environmental laws and regulations.
   NATIONAL POLLUTION DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM (NPDES): Storm water
discharge permit for small municipal storm sewer systems (MS4) permit issued by
the California state water resources control board which authorizes the
discharge of storm water pursuant to the clean water act section 402 (33 USC
section 1342).
   NOTICE OF INTENT (NOI): A form submitted to the regional water quality
control board notifying the agency of a person's intent to be covered under a
separate regional water quality control board construction permit for the
control of construction site runoff on projects that disturb one acre of land
or more, in one or more phases of construction.
   PERSON: Any individual, partnership, copartnership, firm, company,
corporation, limited liability company, association, joint stock company,
trust, estate, government entity, or any other legal entity, or their legal
representatives, agents or assigns.
   POLLUTANT: Shall have the same meaning as defined in 40 CFR section 122.2,
and shall include, but not be limited to, any solid, liquid, gas, or other
substance that can alter the physical or chemical properties of water
including, but not limited to, fertilizers, solvents, sludge, petroleum or
petroleum products, solid waste, garbage, biological materials, radioactive
materials, sand, dirt, animal waste, acids, and bases.
   PREMISES: Any building, lot, parcel, real estate, or land or portion of
land, whether improved or unimproved, including adjacent sidewalks and parking
strips.
   PUBLIC STORM DRAIN SYSTEM: All or any part of the publicly owned and
maintained roads, streets, catch basins, curbs, gutters, ditches, manmade
channels, storm drains and dry wells located within public easement, right of
way, parks, common areas, retention areas, or other publicly owned or
maintained real property designed or used for collecting, holding, or conveying
storm water.
   REGIONAL WATER QUALITY CONTROL BOARD (RWQCB): The state division of the
SWRCB charged with enforcement of the water quality laws and regulations in the
state of California.
   STORM WATER: Storm water runoff, surface runoff and drainage. (Ord. 2007-9,
9-17-2007)
8-10-4: AUTHORITY FOR ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT:
The director of public works shall have the authority to exercise the powers
and perform the duties set forth in this chapter and to administer and enforce
provisions of this chapter. The director of public works may designate other
employees to exercise such powers and perform such duties, as he/she deems
appropriate. (Ord. 2007-9, 9-17-2007)
8-10-5: CONSTRUCTION AND APPLICATION:
This chapter shall be construed to assure consistency with requirements of the
federal clean water act and its implemented regulations for storm water
management, and to comply with the California state water resources control
board's storm water discharge permit for small MS4s, and shall be applicable to
all storm water generated on any developed or undeveloped urban lands lying
within the city of Selma or conveyed by the public storm drain system. (Ord.
2007-9, 9-17-2007)
8-10-6: ULTIMATE RESPONSIBILITY OF DISCHARGER:
The standards set forth herein and promulgated pursuant to this chapter are
minimum standards; therefore, this chapter does not intend nor imply that
compliance by any person will ensure that there will be no contamination,
pollution, or unauthorized discharge of pollutants into waters of the United
States caused by said person. This chapter shall not create liability on the
part of the city of Selma, or any agent or employee thereof, for any damages,
claims, or liabilities that result from any dischargers, reliance on this
chapter or any administrative decision lawfully made hereunder. (Ord. 2007-9,
9-17-2007)
8-10-7: PROHIBITION OF NONSTORM WATER DISCHARGE TO THE PUBLIC STORM DRAIN
SYSTEM; EXEMPTIONS:
   (A)   Discharging Of Substances Prohibited: Unless expressly authorized or
exempted by this chapter, no person shall cause or allow the discharge to a
public right of way or public storm drain system of any substance that is not
composed entirely of storm water.
   (B)   Addition Of Pollutants Prohibited: Unless expressly authorized or
exempted by this chapter, no person shall use, store, spill, dump, or dispose
of materials in a manner that those materials could cause or contribute to the
addition of pollutants to storm water.
   (C)   Exemptions: The following discharges are exempt from the prohibitions
set forth in subsections (A) and (B) of this section:
      1.   Discharges authorized by a separate NPDES or RWQCB permit.
      2.   The following categories of nonstorm water discharges are
permissible unless otherwise prohibited under subsection (C)3, (C)4 or (C)5 of
this section:
Air conditioning condensation.
Dechlorinated swimming pool discharges.
Discharges from emergency firefighting activity.
Discharges from potable water sources.
Diverted stream flows.
Flows from riparian habitats and wetlands.
Footing drains.
Foundation drains.
Individual residential car washing.
Irrigation water.
Landscaping irrigation.
Lawn watering.
Rising ground waters.
Springs.
Uncontaminated ground water infiltration as defined in 40 CFR section 35.2005
(20).
Uncontaminated pumped ground water.
Water from crawl space pumps.
Water line flushing.
Or any other activity that the director identifies is not a significant
contributor of pollutants during the city of Selma's NPDES storm water
discharge permit for small MS4's permit term.
      3.   No person shall discharge to public storm drain system any exempted
discharge under this subsection if the director or assigned designee identifies
and provides written notice to the person that the discharge has the potential
to be a source of pollutants to receiving waters, waterways, or ground water.
      4.   No person shall discharge to the public storm drain system that
would result in or contribute to a violation of the city's NPDES storm water
discharge permit for small MS4s. Liability for any such discharge shall be the
responsibility of the person causing or responsible for the discharge.
      5.   No person shall establish, use, maintain, or continue any connection
to the public storm drain system which has caused or is likely to cause a
violation of this section. This prohibition is retroactive and shall apply to
any connection that was made in the past, regardless of whether it was made
under permit or other authorization, or whether it was permissible under the
law or practices applicable or prevailing at the time of the connection. (Ord.
2007-9, 9-17-2007)
8-10-8: OPERATING FACILITIES OR ACTIVITIES:
   (A)   All persons owning or operating premises or engaged in activities who
are required by federal or state law to submit to EPA and/or RWQCB a notice of
intent (NOI) to comply with an NPDES or RWQCB storm water discharge permit
shall provide a copy of such notice to the director upon request. Facilities
required to apply for a storm water discharge permit are identified in 40 CFR
section 122.26(b)(14).
   (B)   All persons engaged in activities which will or may reasonably be
expected to result in pollutants entering the public storm drain system shall
undertake best management practices (BMPs) to minimize such pollutants, shall
provide protection from accidental discharge of pollutants to the public storm
drain system and comply with cleanup and notification requirements of this
chapter. Such measures shall include the requirements imposed by federal,
state, county, or local authorities. BMPs are site specific and are described
in the documents "Storm Water Best Management Practice Handbook: Construction";
"Storm Water Best Management Practice Handbook: New Development And
Redevelopment"; "Storm Water Best Management Practice Handbook: Industrial And
Commercial"; "Storm Water Best Management Practice Handbook: Municipal"; or
other guidance documents available from EPA and/or RWQCB.
   (C)   If best management practice is required by the public works director
or city engineer to prevent a pollutant from entering the public storm drain
system, the person receiving the notice of such a requirement may petition the
city council of the city of Selma to reconsider the application of the BMPs to
the premises or activity. The written petition must be received by the city
clerk within ten (10) working days of the notice issued by the public works
director or city engineer. The petition shall set forth any reasons as to why
application of BMPs to the premises or activity should not be required and any
proposed alternatives to such requirement. The city council will act within
thirty (30) calendar days of the filing of the petition. (Ord. 2007-9, 9-17-
2007)
8-10-9: CONSTRUCTION SITES:
   (A)   All persons engaged in construction activities who are required by
federal or state law to submit to EPA and/or RWQCB a notice of intent to comply
with an NPDES storm water permit, shall provide the city with copies of the NOI
and the NPDES storm water permit issued by the RWQCB. Construction activities
that will disturb one acre or more of land area or smaller land areas, if they
are part of a larger common plan of development or sale, are required to apply
for a storm water discharge permit (40 CFR 122.26(b)(15)).
   (B)   Any person performing construction shall not cause or contribute to a
violation of the RWQCB storm water discharge permit issued by the RWQCB to the
city of Selma. Liability for any such discharge shall be the responsibility of
the person causing or responsible for the discharge. Any person performing
construction shall undertake best management practices to minimize pollutants
(including sediments) from leaving the construction site, provide protection
from accidental discharge of pollutants to the public storm drain system, and
comply with the cleanup and notification requirements of this chapter. Site
operator shall ensure erosion and sediment control and control of waste and
properly dispose of waste, such as discarded building materials, concrete truck
washout, chemicals, litter, and sanitary waste at the construction site that
may cause adverse impacts to water quality. Such measures shall include the
requirements imposed by federal, state, county, or local authorities. BMPs are
site specific and are described in the documents "Storm Water Best Management
Practice Handbook: Construction"; "Storm Water Best Management Practice
Handbook: New Development And Redevelopment"; "Storm Water Best Management
Practice Handbook: Industrial And Commercial"; "Storm Water Best Management
Practice Handbook: Municipal"; or other guidance documents available from EPA
and/or RWQCB.
   (C)   If best management practice is required by the public works director
or city engineer to prevent a pollutant from entering the public storm drain
system, the person receiving the notice of such a requirement may petition the
city council of the city of Selma to reconsider the application of the BMPs to
the premises or activity. The written petition must be received within ten (10)
working days at the issuance of the notice by the public works director or city
engineer and shall set forth any reasons as to why application of BMPs to the
premises or activity should not be required and any proposed alternatives to
such a requirement. The city council will act within thirty (30) calendar days
of the filing of the petition. (Ord. 2007-9, 9-17-2007)
8-10-10: POSTCONSTRUCTION:
Property owners or operators shall ensure long term operation and maintenance
of postconstruction storm water runoff control mechanisms, such as retention
basins, dry wells and other measures described in 40 CFR 122.34(b)(5)(iii).
(Ord. 2007-9, 9-17-2007)
8-10-11: CLEANUP AND NOTIFICATION REQUIREMENTS:
   (A)   As soon as any owner or operator has actual or constructive knowledge
of any discharge which may result in pollutants entering the public storm drain
system, such person shall promptly take all necessary steps to ensure the
discovery of the source and the extent and proceed with containment and cleanup
of such discharge.
   (B)   The owner or operator shall notify the public works director or the
city engineer of the discharge in both of the following manners:
      1.   By telephone as soon as practical or by calling 9-1-1, if hazardous
materials are involved; and
      2.   By written report identifying the discharge source, extent,
pollutant, measures taken to mitigate the discharge, and preventative measures
put into place to prevent a subsequent discharge. (Ord. 2007-9, 9-17-2007)
8-10-12: INSPECTIONS:
   (A)   Authority To Inspect: Upon presentation of credentials and at all
reasonable or necessary hours, all authorized employees of the city shall have
access to all premises and to all records pertaining to those premises for
purposes of ensuring compliance with this chapter. Inspection, interviewing,
copying, sampling, photographing, and other activities conducted on the
premises shall be limited to those which are reasonably needed by the city in
determining compliance with the requirements of this chapter. All persons shall
allow such activities under safe and nonhazardous conditions with a minimum of
delay.
   (B)   Monitoring Activities: The public works director or the city engineer
may order any person engaged in any activity or owning or operating on any
premises which may cause or contribute to discharges of pollutants to the
public storm drain system in violation of this chapter or any applicable NPDES
or RWQCB storm water permit condition to undertake such monitoring activities
and analyses and furnish such reports as the public works director or city
engineer reasonably may specify. The costs of such activities, analyses, and
reports shall be borne by the recipient of the order.
   (C)   Access Refusal: If an authorized employee of the city of Selma has
been refused access to any premises, and is able to demonstrate probable cause
to believe that there may be a violation of this chapter, or that there is a
need to inspect, interview, copy, photograph or sample as part of an inspection
and sampling procedure of the city designed to determine compliance with the
requirements of this chapter or any related laws or regulations designed to
protect the environment and the public health, safety and welfare of the
community, then the public works director or city engineer may seek issuance of
a search warrant from a magistrate judge or judicial officer of the Fresno
County superior court. (Ord. 2007-9, 9-17-2007)
8-10-13: ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTIES:
   (A)   Enforcement: Charges levied pursuant to this chapter shall be
collected by the department of public works. The public works director or city
engineer shall make and enforce economic and efficient management and
protection of the city's storm drain system.
   (B)   Owner Of Record: The owner of record of the property upon which a
violation of this chapter occurs shall be presumed to be a person having lawful
control over the activity or premises unless it is demonstrated that another
person has knowingly and in good faith accepted responsibility for the activity
at issue. If more than one person is identified as the owner, such persons
shall be presumed to be jointly and severally in lawful possession and control
of the activity or premises.
   (C)   Notice Of Violation: The public works director or city engineer may
issue a written notice of violation to any person who has violated or is in
violation of this chapter. Failure to comply with any act required in the
notice of violation be a separate violation for each day beyond the thirtieth
day following the notice of violation. Nothing in this section shall limit the
authority of the public works director or city engineer to take any action,
including emergency actions or any other enforcement action, without first
issuing a notice of violation. In appropriate situations, the public works
director or city engineer may notify the person orally either in person or by
telephone prior to, and, in some cases, in lieu of, written notification.
   (D)   Consent Orders: The public works director or city engineer may enter
into consent orders, assurances of voluntary compliance, negotiated settlement
agreements or other similar documents establishing an agreement with any person
responsible for noncompliance. Such documents will include specific action to
be taken by the person(s) to correct the noncompliance within a time period
specified by the document, including an identification and description of the
best management practices and measures to utilize in implementing the order.
Such documents shall have the same force and effect as any other orders issued
under this chapter and shall be judicially enforceable.
   (E)   Cease And Desist Orders: When the public works director or city
engineer finds that a person has violated, or continues to violate any
provision of this chapter or any related laws or regulations, or that the
person's past violations are likely to recur, the public works director or city
engineer may issue an order to the person directing them to cease and desist
all such violations and direct the person to immediately comply with all
requirements; and take such appropriate remedial or preventive action as may be
needed to properly address a continuing or threatened violation. Issuance of a
cease and desist order shall not be a bar against, or a prerequisite for,
taking any other action against the person. A person's failure to comply with
an order of the public works director or city engineer issued pursuant to this
chapter shall constitute a violation of this chapter.
   (F)   Civil Penalties: In addition to any other enforcement authority
contained in this chapter, the public works director or city engineer shall
issue a civil citation to any person who has violated, or continues to violate,
any provision of this chapter or any related laws or regulations. A person who
violates any requirement of this chapter or any applicable NPDES or RWQCB storm
water discharge permit condition shall be civilly liable to the city of Selma
for a sum not to exceed ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00) per day per
violation.
   (G)   Criminal Penalties: A person who wilfully or negligently violates any
provision of this chapter, or any related laws or regulations shall, upon
conviction, be guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof shall be
punished by a fine not to exceed fifteen thousand dollars ($15,000.00) per day
per violation and/or imprisonment for a period not to exceed six (6) months.
   (H)   Criminal Prosecution: Some intentional violations may constitute
criminal violations of federal, state and local laws, and that under such
circumstances, the public works director or city engineer may seek the
assistance of the EPA, the state or county prosecutor to commence civil and/or
criminal action against any person who violates any requirement of this chapter
or any applicable NPDES or RWQCB storm water discharge permit condition.
   (I)   Revoking Or Withholding Of Permit: In addition to or in lieu of all
other available penalties, the city of Selma may revoke or withhold any permit,
approval or license to construct improvements to real property or operate a
business in the city of Selma if the holder of such permit, approval, or
license is in violation of any requirement of this chapter or any applicable
NPDES or RWQCB storm water discharge permit condition.
   (J)   Liability For Costs: The public works director or city engineer may
assess liability for costs to any person found in violation of this chapter for
all actual costs incurred by the city of Selma in surveillance, sampling and
testing, abatement, and remediation associated with a discharge that is in
violation of this chapter. Additionally, the public works director or city
engineer may assess liability for costs to any person whose discharge resulted
in a violation of the city's storm water discharge permit. (Ord. 2007-9, 9-17-
2007)
8-10-14: CONFLICT WITH OTHER LAWS:
In the event of any conflict between this chapter and any federal or state law,
regulation, permit, or other ordinance of the city of Selma, the requirements
which establishes the stricter standard shall govern. To the extent permitted
by law, nothing in this chapter shall preclude enforcement of any other
applicable law. (Ord. 2007-9, 9-17-2007)
8-10-15: SEVERABILITY:
If any section, subsection, sentence, clause, phrase or portion of this chapter
or any part of the code adopted herein by reference is for any reason held to
be invalid or unconstitutional by the decision of any court of competent
jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the validity of the remaining
portions thereof. (Ord. 2007-9, 9-17-2007)
8-10-16: PENALTIES:
Any person found guilty of violating any provision of this chapter shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction thereof, shall be punished by a
fine or by imprisonment, or both such fine and imprisonment as specified
herein. Each day that a violation continues shall be a separate offense
punishable as herein described. (Ord. 2007-9, 9-17-2007)
CHAPTER 11
ABANDONED RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY REGISTRATION
SECTION:
8-11-1: Title
8-11-2: Purpose And Intent
8-11-3: Definitions
8-11-4: Recordation Of Transfer Of Loan, Deed Of Trust, Assignment Of Rents
8-11-5: Registration
8-11-6: Maintenance Requirements
8-11-7: Security Requirements
8-11-8: Additional Authority
8-11-9: Maintenance And Security By City
8-11-10: Fees
8-11-11: Enforcement
8-11-12: Violations And Penalties
8-11-1: TITLE:
This chapter shall be known as the ABANDONED RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY REGISTRATION
ORDINANCE and may be so cited. (Ord. 2008-6, 8-4-2008)
8-11-2: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
It is the purpose and intent of this chapter to establish an abandoned
residential property registration program as a mechanism to protect residential
neighborhoods within the city limits of the city of Selma from becoming
blighted through the lack of adequate maintenance and security of abandoned
properties. (Ord. 2008-6, 8-4-2008)
8-11-3: DEFINITIONS:
The terms as used in this chapter or in any resolution or standard adopted by
the city council pursuant to this chapter shall have the following meanings:
   ABANDONED: A property that is vacant and is under a current notice of
default, notice of trustee's sale, pending tax assessor's lien sale or that has
been the subject of a foreclosure sale where the title was retained by the
beneficiary of a deed of trust involved in the foreclosure, or that is
transferred under a deed in lieu of foreclosure or sale.
   ACCESSIBLE PROPERTY: A property that is accessible through a compromised or
breached gate, fence, wall or other similar feature.
   ACCESSIBLE STRUCTURE: A structure or building that is unsecured or breached
in such a way as to allow access to the interior space by unauthorized persons.
   BENEFICIARY: A lender under a note secured by a deed of trust.
   BUYER: Any person, copartnership, association, corporation, entity, or
fiduciary who agrees to transfer anything of value in consideration for
property described in an agreement of sale, as defined in this section.
   DANGEROUS BUILDING: Any building or structure that would constitute a
"dangerous building" as defined in section 302 of the uniform code for the
abatement of dangerous buildings or as prepared by the International Conference
of Building Officials and adopted in force within the city.
   DAYS: Consecutive calendar days.
   DEED IN LIEU OF FORECLOSURE OR SALE: A recorded document that transfers
ownership of a property from the trustor to the holder of a deed of trust upon
consent of the beneficiary of the deed of trust.
   DEED OF TRUST: An instrument by which title to real estate is transferred to
a third party trustee as security for a real estate loan. This definition
applies to any and all subsequent deeds of trust, including second trust deed,
third trust deed, etc.
   DEFAULT: The failure to fulfill a contractual obligation, monetary or
conditional.
   DISTRESSED: A property that is under a current notice of default, or notice
of trustee's sale, or pending tax assessor's lien sale or has been foreclosed
upon by the trustee or has been conveyed to the beneficiary or trustee via a
deed in lieu of foreclosure or sale.
   EVIDENCE OF VACANCY: Any condition that on its own, or combined with other
conditions present, would lead a reasonable person to believe that the property
is vacant. Such conditions include, but are not limited to, overgrown or dead
vegetation, accumulation of newspapers, circulars, flyers or mail, past due
utility notices or disconnected utilities, accumulation of trash, junk or
debris, the absence of window coverings such as curtains, blinds or shutters,
the absence of furnishings or personal items consistent with residential
habitation, and statements by neighbors, passersby, delivery agents, or
government employees that the property is vacant.
   FORECLOSURE: The process by which a property, placed as security for a real
estate loan, is sold at auction to satisfy the debt if the trustor (borrower)
defaults.
   LOCAL: Within forty (40) road driving miles distance of the subject
property.
   NEIGHBORHOOD STANDARD: Those conditions that are present on a simple
majority of properties within a three hundred foot (300') radius of an
individual property. A property that is the subject of a neighborhood standard
comparison, or any other abandoned property within the three hundred foot
(300') radius, shall not be counted toward the simple majority.
   NOTICE OF DEFAULT: A recorded notice that a default has occurred under a
deed of trust and that the beneficiary intends to proceed with a trustee's
sale.
   OUT OF AREA: In excess of forty (40) road driving miles distance of the
subject property.
   OWNER: Any person, copartnership, association, corporation, entity, or
fiduciary having a legal or equitable title or any interest in any real
property.
   OWNER OF RECORD: The person having recorded title to the property at any
given point in time the record is provided by the Fresno County recorder's
office.
   PROPERTY: Any unimproved or improved residential real property, or portion
thereof, situated in the city and includes the buildings or structures located
on the property regardless of condition.
   RESIDENTIAL BUILDING: Any improved real property, or portion thereof,
situated in the city, designed or permitted to be used for dwelling purposes,
and shall include the buildings and structures located on such improved real
property. This includes any real property being offered for sale, trade,
transfer, or exchange as "residential" whether or not it is legally permitted
or zoned for such use.
   SECURING: Such measures as may be directed by the chief of police or his or
her designee that assist in rendering the property inaccessible to unauthorized
persons including, but not limited to, the repairing of fences and walls,
chaining or padlocking of gates, the repair or boarding of doors, windows or
other openings. Boarding shall be completed to a minimum of the current housing
and urban development (HUD) securing standards at the time the boarding is
completed or required.
   TRUSTEE: The person, firm, corporation, or entity holding a deed of trust on
a property.
   TRUSTOR: A borrower under a deed of trust, who deeds property to a trustee
as security for the payment of a debt.
   VACANT: A building or structure that is not legally occupied. (Ord. 2008-6,
8-4-2008)
8-11-4: RECORDATION OF TRANSFER OF LOAN, DEED OF TRUST, ASSIGNMENT OF RENTS:
Within ten (10) days of the purchase or transfer of a loan or deed of trust
secured by residential property, the new beneficiary/trustee shall record with
the Fresno County recorder's office an assignment of rents or similar document
that lists the name of the corporation, entity, or individual and the mailing
address and contact phone number of the new beneficiary or trustee responsible
for receiving payments associated with the loan or deed of trust. (Ord. 2008-6,
8-4-2008)
8-11-5: REGISTRATION:
   (A)   Any beneficiary/trustee who holds a deed of trust on a property
located within the city of Selma shall perform an inspection of the property
that is the security for the deed of trust upon default by the trustor and
prior to recording a notice of default with the Fresno County recorder's
office. If the property is found to be vacant or shows evidence of vacancy, it
is, by this chapter, deemed abandoned and the beneficiary/trustee shall, within
ten (10) days of the inspection, register the property with the chief of police
or his or her designee on forms provided by the city.
   (B)   If the property is occupied but remains in default, it shall be
inspected by the beneficiary/trustee or his designee monthly until:
      1.   The trustor or other party remedies the default, or
      2.   It is found to be vacant or shows evidence of vacancy, at which time
it is deemed abandoned and the trustee shall, within ten (10) days of that
inspection, register the property with the chief of police, or his/her
designee, on forms provided by the city.
   (C)   The registration required by either subsection (A) or (B) of this
section shall contain the name of the beneficiary/trustee (corporation, entity,
or individual), the direct street mailing address of the beneficiary/trustee
(no P.O. boxes), a direct contact name and phone number for the beneficiary/
trustee, and, in the case of a corporation, entity, or out of area beneficiary/
trustee, the local property management company responsible for the security,
maintenance, and marketing of the property.
   (D)   An annual registration fee shall accompany the registration form. The
fee and registration shall be valid for the calendar year, or remaining portion
of the calendar year, in which the registration was initially required.
Subsequent registrations and fees are due January 1 of each year and must be
received no later than January 31 of the year due.
   (E)   This section shall also apply to properties that have been the subject
of a foreclosure sale where the title was transferred to the beneficiary of a
deed of trust involved in the foreclosure and any properties transferred under
a deed in lieu of foreclosure or sale.
   (F)   Properties subject to this chapter shall remain under the annual
registration requirement and the security and maintenance standards of this
chapter as long as they remain vacant.
   (G)   Any person, firm, corporation, or entity that has registered a
property under this chapter must report any change of information contained in
the registration within ten (10) days of the change. (Ord. 2008-6, 8-4-2008)
   (H)   Any individual or entity who fails to comply with any of the
requirements of this section shall be subject to enforcement pursuant to
section
8-11-12 of this chapter. (Ord. 2013-6, 11-4-2013)
8-11-6: MAINTENANCE REQUIREMENTS:
In addition to the requirements of chapter 5 of this title, properties subject
to registration under section
8-11-5 of this chapter shall comply with the following:
   (A)   In comparison to the neighborhood standard, the property shall be kept
free of weeds, dry brush, dead vegetation, trash, junk, debris, building
materials, any accumulation of newspapers, circulars, fliers, notices, except
those required by federal, state or local law, discarded personal items,
including, but not limited to, furniture, clothing, large and small appliances,
printed material or any other items that give the appearance that the property
is abandoned.
   (B)   The property shall be maintained free of graffiti, tagging, or similar
markings by removal or painting over with an exterior grade paint that matches
the color of the exterior of the structure.
   (C)   All yards visible from the public right of way shall be landscaped and
maintained to the neighborhood standard at the time registration was required.
      1.   Landscape includes, but is not limited to, grass, ground covers,
bushes, shrubs, hedges or similar plantings, decorative rock or bark, or
artificial turf or sod designed specifically for residential installation.
      2.   Landscape does not include weeds, broken concrete, asphalt,
decomposed granite, plastic sheeting, mulch, indoor-outdoor carpet, or any
similar material.
      3.   Maintenance includes, but is not limited to, regular watering,
irrigation, cutting, pruning and mowing of required landscape, and removal of
all trimmings.
   (D)   Pools and spas shall either be kept in working order and treated so
the water remains clear and free of pollutants, debris, and any kind of larvae
that would cause a health danger to the surrounding vicinity, or drained and
kept dry. In either case, properties with pools or spas must comply with the
minimum security fencing requirements of the state of California.
   (E)   Adherence to this section does not relieve the beneficiary/trustee or
property owner of any obligations set forth in any covenants, conditions, and
restrictions and/or homeowners' association rules and regulations which may
apply to the property. (Ord. 2008-6, 8-4-2008)
8-11-7: SECURITY REQUIREMENTS:
In addition to the requirements of chapter 5 of this title, properties subject
to registration under section
8-11-5 of this chapter shall comply with the following:
   (A)   The property shall be maintained in a secure manner so as not to be
accessible to unauthorized persons. Secure manner includes, but is not limited
to, the closure and locking of windows, doors (walk-through, sliding, and
garage), gates, and any other opening of such size that may allow a child to
access the interior of the property and/or structure(s). In the case of broken
windows, securing means the reglazing or boarding of the window.
   (B)   If the property is owned by a corporation, entity, or out of area
beneficiary/trustee/owner:
      1.   A local property management company shall be contracted to perform,
at a minimum, monthly inspections to verify that the requirements of this
section, and any other applicable laws, are being met.
      2.   The property shall be posted with the name and twenty four (24) hour
contact phone number of the local property management company. The posting
shall be no less than eighteen inches by twenty four inches (18"x24") and shall
be of a font that is legible from a distance of forty five feet (45') and shall
contain, along with the name and twenty four (24) hour contact number, the
words "THIS PROPERTY MANAGED BY" and "TO REPORT PROBLEMS OR CONCERNS CALL". The
posting shall be placed on the interior of a window facing the street to the
front of the property so that it is visible from the street, or secured to the
exterior of the building/structure facing the street to the front of the
property so it is visible from the street; if no such area exists, on a stake
of sufficient size to support the posting in a location that is visible from
the street to the front of the property but not readily accessible to vandals.
The exterior posting must be constructed of and printed with weather resistant
materials.
      3.   The local property management company shall inspect the property no
less than on a monthly basis to determine if the property is in compliance with
the requirements of this chapter. (Ord. 2008-6, 8-4-2008)
8-11-8: ADDITIONAL AUTHORITY:
In addition to the enforcement remedies established by other provisions of this
code, the chief of police, or his/her designee, and the fire chief, or his/her
designee, shall have the authority to require the beneficiary/trustee/owner
and/or owner of record of any property affected by this chapter to implement
additional maintenance and/or security measures including, but not limited to,
securing any and all doors, windows or other openings, installing additional
security lighting, increasing on site inspection frequency, employment of an on
site security guard, or other measures as may be reasonably required to arrest
the decline of the property. (Ord. 2008-6, 8-4-2008)
8-11-9: MAINTENANCE AND SECURITY BY CITY:
   (A)   If any individual or entity covered by this chapter fails to maintain
and secure their property as required by this chapter within a reasonable time
of issuance of a notice of violation of any of the provisions of this chapter,
then the city manager shall cause the property to be maintained or secured by
city personnel or private contract, and entry upon the property is expressly
authorized for such purposes. Upon completion of the maintenance or securing by
direction of the city manager, the city manager shall cause a statement of the
costs thereof to be prepared for submission to the city council. The city
manager shall set a time and place for the city council to receive and consider
the statement of costs, and shall serve on the owner or owners of the property
a copy of the statement of costs and a notice of the time and place at which
the city council will receive and consider the statement of costs. The
statement of costs and the notice of hearing shall be served in the same manner
as provided in section
8-5-9 of this title.
   (B)   In addition to maintenance and securing of properties, any individual
or entity covered by this chapter who fails to maintain and secure their
property as required by this chapter within a reasonable time of issuance of a
notice of violation of any of the provisions of this chapter shall be deemed to
have authorized the city to remove trespassers from the property. (Ord. 2008-6,
8-4-2008)
8-11-10: FEES:
The fee for registering an abandoned residential property shall be set by
resolution of the city council. (Ord. 2008-6, 8-4-2008)
8-11-11: ENFORCEMENT:
Every violation of this chapter is declared to be a nuisance and may be
enforced in any combination as allowed in chapter 5 of this title. (Ord. 2008-
6, 8-4-2008)
8-11-12: VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES:
   (A)   Violations of this chapter shall be treated as a strict liability
offense regardless of intent.
   (B)   Any individual or entity that violates any portion of this chapter
shall be subject to penalties as set forth in title I, chapter 4 of this code.
   (C)   Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter and as an
alternative to or in addition to any other remedy, the city may impose a civil
penalty in an amount not to exceed one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) per day for
failure to maintain and secure a vacant residential property, as required by
this chapter pursuant to California Civil Code sections 2929.3 and 2929.4. The
procedures for imposing a civil fine are as follows:
      1.   Notice Of Violation: Upon determining a violation, the city manager
or his or her designee shall issue a notice of violation. The notice of
violation shall, at a minimum, give notice of each alleged violation, a
description of each of the conditions that give rise to the allegation, and
notice of the city's intent to assess a civil fine if action to correct the
violation is not commenced within a period of not less than fourteen (14) days
and completed within a period of not less than thirty (30) days.
      2.   Mailing Of Notice: The notice of violation shall be mailed to the
address provided in the deed or other instrument as specified in Government
Code section 27321.5(a) or, if none, to the return address provided on the deed
or other instrument.
      3.   Determining Amount Of Fine: In determining the amount of the civil
fine, the city shall take into consideration any timely and good faith efforts
by the legal owner to remedy the violation(s). The maximum civil fine
authorized is one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) for each day that the owner
fails to maintain the property, commencing on the day following the expiration
of the period to remedy the violation as stated by the city in the notice of
violation.
      4.   Notice Of Fine: Once the city manager or his or her designee has
determined that a civil fine should be imposed, notice of the fine shall be
mailed to the address provided in the deed or other instrument as specified in
Government Code section 27321.5(a) or, if none, to the return address provided
on the deed or other instrument. The notice of fine shall contain, at a
minimum, the violation(s), the dates or range of dates of violation(s), the
total number of days the fine is being assessed, the total amount of the fine,
and whether or not, after considering any timely and good faith efforts by the
legal owner to remedy the violation(s), if any, the amount the civil fine will
be reduced.
      5.   Contesting The Fine: The notice of violation shall also contain the
following statement:
You may contest the imposition of this civil fine by filing, with the City
Clerk, a written request for an appeal to be heard by the City Council. The
request for appeal shall be filed within thirty (30) days from the date of the
mailing of the Notice of Violation. In addition to filing the application for
an appeal, the applicant shall also pay a fee as fixed and amended from time to
time by resolution of the City Council.
Upon receipt of the request for appeal, the city manager shall fix a time and
place for a hearing by the city council of the appeal within forty five (45)
days but not less than fifteen (15) days after receipt of the request for
appeal and shall give notice of the hearing to the applicant by first class
mail, postage prepaid, to the address provided by the applicant. The city
council shall hear the appeal and make a decision within thirty (30) days after
close of the hearing. The city council shall notify the applicant of its
decision in writing.
      6.   Notice Of Violation To Vacant Property That Is Subject To A Notice
Of Default: Prior to imposing a fine or penalty for failure to maintain a
vacant property that is subject to a notice of default, that is purchased at a
foreclosure sale, or that is acquired through foreclosure under a mortgage or
deed of trust, the city shall provide the owner of that property with a notice
of violation and an opportunity to correct that violation. This section shall
not apply if the city determines that a specific condition of the property
threatens public health or safety.
      7.   Failure To Pay Civil Penalty: The failure to pay a civil penalty
imposed by this section shall be deemed a civil debt owing to the city and
shall be collected in any manner authorized by law, including, but not limited
to, the imposing of a lien on the property and/or imposing a special assessment
on the property. (Ord. 2013-6, 11-4-2013)
CHAPTER 12
PUBLIC HAZARDS
SECTION:
8-12-1:    Storage Of Personal Property
8-12-2:    Definitions
8-12-3:    Regulation And Impoundment Of Stored Personal Property; Discard Of
Certain Stored Personal Property
8-12-4:    Notice
8-12-5:    Storage And Disposal
8-12-1: STORAGE OF PERSONAL PROPERTY:
The City enacts this section to balance the needs of the residents and public
at large to access clean and sanitary public areas consistent with the intended
uses for the public areas with the needs of the individuals, who have no other
alternatives for the storage of personal property, to retain access to a
limited amount of personal property in public areas. This section attempts to
balance the needs of all of the City's residents. (Ord. 2024-7, 10-7-2024)
8-12-2:DEFINITIONS:
The definitions contained in this subsection shall govern the construction,
meaning, and application of words and phrases used in this article.
ALLEY: Any highway having a roadway not exceeding 25 feet in width which is
primarily for access to the rear or side entrances of abutting property.
BIKEWAY: All facilities that provide primarily for, and promote, bicycle
travel.
CITY EMPLOYEE: Any full or part-time employee of the City of Selma, or a
contractor retained by the City for the purpose of implementing this Section.
ESSENTIAL PERSONAL PROPERTY: Any and all personal property that cumulatively is
less than two cubic feet in volume, which, by way of example, is the amount of
property capable of being carried within a backpack.
EXCESS PERSONAL PROPERTY: Any and all personal property that cumulatively
exceeds the amount of property that could fit in a 60-gallon container with the
lid closed.
HIGHWAY: A way or place of whatever nature, publicly maintained and open to the
use of the public for purposes of vehicular travel.
PARKWAY: The area of the street between the back of the curb and the sidewalk
that typically is planted and landscaped.
PERSON: Any individual.
PERSONAL PROPERTY: Any tangible property, and includes, but is not limited to,
goods, materials, merchandise, tents, tarpaulins, bedding, sleeping bags,
hammocks, sheds, structures, mattresses, couches, chairs, other furniture,
appliances, and personal items such as household items, luggage, backpacks,
clothing, documents, and medication.
PUBLIC AREA or PUBLIC AREAS: All property that is owned, managed or maintained
by the City, and shall include, but not be limited to, any street, medial
strip, space, ground, building or structure.
ROADWAY: That portion of a highway improved, designed or ordinarily used for
vehicular travel.
SIDEWALK: That portion of a highway, other than the roadway, set apart by
curbs, barriers, markings or other delineation, for pedestrian travel.
STORAGE FACILITY: Any facility, whether operated by a public, non-profit or
private provider, which allows and has capacity for voluntary storage, free of
charge, for a homeless person to store personal property up to the equivalent
of the amount of property that would fit into a single 60-gallon container with
the lid closed.
STORE, STORED, STORING or STORAGE: To put personal property aside or accumulate
for use when needed, to put for safekeeping, and/or to place or leave in a
public area. Moving personal property to another location in a public area or
returning personal property to the same block on a daily or regular basis shall
be considered storing and shall not be considered to be removing the personal
property from a public area. This definition shall not include any personal
property that, pursuant to statute, ordinance, permit, regulation or other
authorization by the City or state, is stored with the permission of the City
or state on real property that is owned or controlled by the City.
STREET: Includes every highway, avenue, lane, alley, court, place, square,
sidewalk, parkway, curbs, bikeway or other public way in this City which has
been or may hereafter be dedicated and open to public use, or such other public
property so designated in any law of this state.
TENT: A collapsible shelter made of fabric such as nylon or canvas or a tarp
stretched and sustained by supports, which is not open on all sides, and which
hinders an unobstructed view behind or into the area surrounded by the fabric.
In order to qualify as a tent for purposes of this subsection, a tent, when
deconstructed, must be able to fit within a 60-gallon container with the lid
closed.
UNATTENDED: No person is present with the personal property who asserts or
claims ownership over the personal property. Conversely, property is considered
"attended" if a person is present with the personal property and the person
claims ownership over the personal property. (Ord. 2024-7, 10-7-2024)
8-12-3: REGULATION AND IMPOUNDMENT OF STORED PERSONAL PROPERTY; DISCARD OF
CERTAIN STORE PERSONAL PROPERTY:
   (A)   No person shall store any unattended personal property in a public
area. With pre-removal notice as specified in Section
8-12-4 (a), the City may impound any unattended personal property in a public
area, regardless of volume. Post-removal notice shall be provided as set forth
in Section
8-12-4 (b), below.
   (B)   No person shall store any attended excess personal property in a
public area. With pre-removal notice as specified in Section
8-12-4 (a), the City may impound any attended excess personal property stored
in a public area. Post-removal notice shall be provided as set forth in
Subsection 8-12-14(b).
   (C)   No person shall store any personal property in a public area in such a
manner as to obstruct City operations, including a street or sidewalk
maintenance or cleaning. Without prior notice, the City may temporarily move
personal property, whether attended or unattended, which is obstructing City
operations in a public area, including a street or sidewalk maintenance or
cleaning, during the time necessary to conduct the City operations. The City
may also impound personal property that is obstructing City operations in a
public area, pursuant to Sections
8-12-3 (a) or
8-12-3 (b).
   (D)   No person shall store any personal property in a public area in such a
manner that it does not allow for passage as provided by the Americans with
Disabilities Act of 1990, Pub. L. No. 101-336, 104 Stat. 328 (1990), as amended
from time to time. Without prior notice, the City may move and may immediately
impound any personal property, whether attended or unattended, stored in a
public area in such manner that it does not allow for the passage as required
by the ADA. Post-removal notice shall be provided as set forth in Section
8-12-4 (b). A violation of this section is governed by Section
9-11-1
   (E)   No Person shall Store any Personal Property, whether Attended or
Unattended, within:
      1.   Ten (10) feet of any operational or utilizable driveway or loading
dock;
      2.   Five (5) feet of any operational or utilizable building entrance or
exit; or
      3.   Two (2) feet of any fire hydrant, fire plug, or other fire
department connection.
   Without prior notice, the City may move or may immediately impound any
Personal Property, whether Attended or Unattended, Store in a Public Area in
violation of this section. Post-removal notice shall be provided as set forth
in Section
8-12-4  of this Code.
   F.   No Person shall Store any Personal Property in a Public Area that has a
clearly posted closure time. Without prior notice, the City may remove and
impound Personal Property, whether Attended or Unattended, Stored in a Public
Area that has a clearly posted closure time, provided the Personal Property is
removed and impounded after the posted closure time. Post-removal notice shall
be provided as set forth in Section
8-12-4 (b).
   G.   No Person shall Store any Personal Property in a Public Area if the
Personal Property, whether Attended or Unattended constitutes an immediate
threat to the health or safety of the public. Without prior notice, the City
may remove and may discard any Personal Property Stored in a Public Area if the
Personal Property poses an immediate threat to the health or safety of the
public.
   H.   No Person shall Store any Personal Property in a Public Area if the
Personal Property, whether Attended or Unattended, constitutes evidence of a
crime or contraband. Without prior notice, the City may remove and discard any
Personal Property that constitutes evidence of a crime or contraband, as
permissible by law.
   I.   No Person shall Store any Personal Property, whether Attended or
Unattended, in such a manner that obstructs or interferes with any activity in
a Public Area for which the City has issued a permit. Without prior notice, the
City may move any Personal Property Stored in a Public Area in violation of
this section. With pre-removal notice as specified in Section
8-12-4 (a), the City may impound any Personal Property Stored in violation of
this section. Post-removal notice shall be provided as set forth in Section
8-12-4 (b). A violation of this section is governed by Section
9-11-1  of this Code.
   J.   No Person shall Store any Personal Property, whether Attended or
Unattended, in such a manner as to obstruct any portion of a street or other
public right-of-way open to use by motor vehicles, a designated bike lane or
bike path, or other public right-of-way open exclusively to use by bicycles.
Without prior notice, the City may move and may immediately impound any
Personal Property, whether Attended or Unattended, in violation of this
section. Post-removal notice shall be provided as set forth in Section
8-12-4 (b). A violation of this section is governed by Section
9-11-1  of this Code.
   K.   No Person shall Store any Personal Property, whether Attended or
Unattended, in violation of Section
9-11-1  of this Code. The City may move and may immediately impound any
Personal Property, whether Attended or Unattended, in violation of this
section. Pre-removal notice and post-removal will be provided by erecting
signage providing notice that Storage of Personal Property is a violation of
9-11-1 , which may result in removal or impoundment of the Personal Property.
The signage must also provide information on retrieval of the Personal Property
and provide notice that the Personal Property may be discarded, if not claimed
within 60 days. A violation of this section is governed by Section
9-11-1  of this Code. (Ord. 2024-7, 10-7-2024)
8-12-4: NOTICE:
   A.   Pre-Removal Notice. Pre-removal notice shall be deemed provided if a
written notice is provided to the Person who is Storing or claims ownership of
the Personal Property or is posted conspicuously on or near the Personal
Property and the actual removal commences no more than 24 hours after the pre-
removal notice is posted. The written notice shall contain the following:
      1.   A general description of the Personal Property to be removed.
      2.   The location from which the Personal Property will be removed.
      3.   The date and time the notice was posted.
      4.   A statement that the Personal Property has be stored in violation of
Section
8-12-3 .
      5.   A statement that the Personal Property may be impounded if not
removed from Public Areas within 24 hours.
      6.   A statement that moving Personal Property to another location in a
Public Area shall not be considered removal of Personal Property from a Public
Area.
      7.   The address where the removed Public Property will be located,
including a telephone number and the internet website of the City through which
a Person may receive information as to impounded Personal Property as well as
information as to voluntary storage location(s).
      8.   A statement that impounded Personal Property may be discarded if not
claimed within 60 days after impoundment.
   B.   Post-Removal Notice. Upon removal of Stored Personal Property, written
notice shall be conspicuously posted in the area from which the Personal
Property was removed. The written notice shall contain the following:
      1.   A general description of the Personal Property removed.
      2.   The date and approximate time the Personal Property was removed.
      3.   A statement that the Personal Property has been stored in violation
of Section
8-12-3 .
      4.   The address where the removed Personal Property will be located
including a telephone number and internet website of the City through which a
Person may receive information as to impound Personal Property.
      5.   A statement that impounded Personal Property may be discarded if not
claimed within 60 days after impoundment.
   C.   Personal Property shall be defined as, set forth in Section
8-12-2 (i) of the Selma Municipal Code. (Ord. 2024-7, 10-7-2024)
8-12-5: STORAGE AND DISPOSAL:
   A.   Except as specified herein, the City shall move Personal Property to a
place of storage.
   B.   Except as specified herein, the City shall store impounded Personal
Property for 60 days, after which time, if not claimed, may be discarded. The
City shall not be required to undertake any search for, or return, any
impounded Personal Property store for longer than 60 days.
   C.   The City shall maintain a record of the date any impounded Personal
Property was discarded. (Ord. 2024-7, 10-7-2024)
TITLE IX
PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
CHAPTER 1
STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND CURBS
SECTION:
9-1-1: Street Grades
9-1-2: Sidewalk And Curb; Construction Required
9-1-3: Sidewalks To Conform To Street Grade
9-1-4: Lug Wheels Prohibited
9-1-5: Materials To Be Used (Rep. by Ord. 626, 5-1-1967)
9-1-6: Playing Ball On Streets Prohibited
9-1-7: Expansion Joints Required (Rep. by Ord. 626, 5-1-1967)
9-1-8: Line Stakes; Inspections
9-1-9: Driving Across Curbs; Protection Required (Rep. by Ord. 746, 5-3-1976)
9-1-10: Barricades
9-1-11: Obstructing Sidewalks
9-1-12: Sidewalk Area Maintenance And Repair
9-1-13: Curb, Gutter And Sidewalk Revolving Fund
9-1-1: STREET GRADES:
All streets in the city are to be graded and shall at the time and in the
manner hereinafter specified be graded to the official grade with gutters on
each side of the street, except at street crossings, which street crossings
shall be six inches (6") lower than the center of the street and the street
shall have a uniform curve from gutter to gutter. (Ord. 483, 4-16-1956)
9-1-2: SIDEWALK AND CURB; CONSTRUCTION REQUIRED:
Every owner of real property bordering on any street in the city shall, in the
manner hereinafter specified, and at the times hereinafter specified, construct
and maintain in good repair and in clean condition, a sidewalk and curb and
gutter along the street adjacent to the real property.
   (A)   When land is subdivided and work is done therein, the subdivider
shall, at his own cost, install curbs and gutters.
   (B)   When a parcel of unimproved land is to be used for a building site,
the owner shall install curbs, gutters and sidewalks at his own expense.
   (C)   When a parcel of land has buildings or other improvements located
thereon, has no street improvements including curbs, gutters and sidewalks and
the owner wishes to remodel, add a structure or other improvement and the
improvements have a value of three thousand dollars ($3,000.00), then curbs,
gutters and sidewalks shall be required. (Ord. 2014-1, 2-18-2014)
9-1-3: SIDEWALKS TO CONFORM TO STREET GRADE:
Sidewalks shall be constructed in conformity with the official grade of the
streets as now established or as may hereafter be established by the engineer
or director of public works. (Ord. 626, 5-1-1967)
9-1-4: LUG WHEELS PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for tractors with wheels injurious to pavement to be
permitted upon the public thoroughfares unless the operator of such vehicle
shall first plank such streets. (Ord. 2001-8, 11-19-2001)
9-1-5: MATERIALS TO BE USED:
(Rep. by Ord. 626, 5-1-1967)
9-1-6: PLAYING BALL ON STREETS PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to play ball or throw any ball to and from
upon any public thoroughfare in the city. (Ord. 2001-8, 11-19-2001)
9-1-7: EXPANSION JOINTS REQUIRED:
(Rep. by Ord. 626, 5-1-1967)
9-1-8: LINE STAKES; INSPECTIONS:
All sidewalks and curbs shall conform strictly to grade and line stakes, and
after the line stakes are once set, constructors and others must use due care
in preserving the stakes. Inspection of the premises by the superintendent of
streets shall be required prior to the installation of curbs and sidewalks. All
work done and materials furnished shall be first class in all respects and
shall be done to the satisfaction and acceptance of the superintendent of
streets upon completion of sidewalks or curbs. (Ord. 483, 4-16-1956)
9-1-9: DRIVING ACROSS CURBS; PROTECTION REQUIRED:
(Rep. by Ord. 746, 5-3-1976)
9-1-10: BARRICADES:
It shall be the duty of the superintendent of streets to place proper signals
or warnings at each end of any sidewalk or street on which any new asphalt or
pavement is being constructed at or before the time the work is commenced and
to maintain such warnings at the place until the work is completed and opened
for public use. (Ord. 143, 3-31-1911)
9-1-11: OBSTRUCTING SIDEWALKS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to obstruct any sidewalk by causing to be
placed thereon any obstruction or any material that would interfere with the
free passage of persons using the sidewalk.
It shall be unlawful for any person owning property fronting upon a sidewalk to
permit any material or thing to be placed upon the sidewalk or to remain
thereon.
This section shall not apply to persons doing business in the city while such
persons are transferring into or out of their place of business any
merchandise, produce or other article of trade. Any person doing business in
the city shall have the right at any time in the necessary course of business
to transport articles of trade in which they are dealing across any sidewalk,
but in such instances shall not obstruct the sidewalk for a longer time than is
necessary for the transfer of such articles. (Ord. 145, 5-1-1911)
9-1-12: SIDEWALK AREA MAINTENANCE AND REPAIR:
It is the purpose of this section to provide sidewalk area maintenance and
repair procedures which are alternative and supplementary to the procedures set
forth in the Streets And Highways Code, division 7, part 3, chapter 22,
commencing at section 5600, as those sections now exist or may hereafter be
amended or renumbered. The city, in each instance, may follow the procedures
set forth in the Streets And Highways Code or those set forth in this chapter,
or some combination thereof. In the event of any conflict between the
provisions of the Streets And Highways Code and this section, the provisions of
this section shall control.
   (A)   Definitions: For purposes of this chapter, the following definitions
apply:
   DEFECTIVE SIDEWALK: A sidewalk area where, in the judgment of the director,
the vertical or horizontal line or grade is altered or displaced to the extent
that a safety hazard exists, or the sidewalk area is in such a condition as to
endanger property or persons using the sidewalk area in a reasonable manner, or
is in such a condition as to interfere with the public convenience in the use
thereof.
   DIRECTOR: The public works director, or his/her designee; "director" shall
have the same meaning as the term "superintendent of streets" as utilized in
the Streets And Highways Code section 5600 et seq.
   LOT, LOTS OR PORTIONS OF A LOT: A parcel of real property located within the
city adjacent to or fronting on any portion of a sidewalk area, and when used
in connection with the phrase "adjacent to or fronting on the defective
sidewalk", or variation thereof, shall refer to the property in front of or
along the side of the defective sidewalk.
   MAINTAIN AND REPAIR: Shall mean maintenance so that the sidewalk area
remains in a condition that is not dangerous to property or persons using the
sidewalk area in a reasonable manner and in a condition that will not interfere
with the public convenience in use of the sidewalk area, and shall include, but
not be limited to: maintenance and repair of sidewalks including grinding,
removal and replacement of sidewalks; maintenance and repair of curbs and
gutters; removal and filling or replacement of parking strips; removal of weeds
and/or debris; supervision and maintenance of permissible signs and removal of
impermissible signs; tree root pruning and installing root barriers; trimming
of trees, shrubs and/or ground cover including areas within park strips and
between the property line of the adjacent property and the street pavement
line. Any root pruning, trimming or removal of trees or shrubs as a part of
sidewalk maintenance and repair is subject to the provisions of chapter 4 of
this title.
   OWNER: Any person owning a lot, lots, or portions of a lot within the city,
adjacent to or fronting on any portion of a sidewalk area.
   PERSON: Shall include a natural person, joint venture, joint stock company,
partnership, association, club, company, corporation, business, trust,
organization, or the manager, lessee, agent, servant, officer or employee of
any of them.
   SIDEWALK AREA: That portion of a street between the street pavement line and
the adjacent property line, including curbs and gutters, sidewalks, a park or
parking strip, bulkheads, retaining walls, or other works for the protection of
any sidewalk area, including any sidewalk, curb and gutter located on side yard
frontage.
   (B)   Owner's Duty To Maintain And Repair Sidewalk Areas: The owner of a
lot, lots or portions of a lot adjacent to or fronting on any portion of a
sidewalk area shall maintain the sidewalk area in a safe and nondangerous
condition, and shall repair such sidewalk area and pay the costs and expenses
therefor, including, but not limited to, charges for the city's costs of
inspection and administration whenever the city undertakes sidewalk maintenance
and repair pursuant to subsections (D) and (E) of this section, and including
the costs of collection and placing any assessment lien on the property due to
failure of the owner to promptly pay such costs. The procedures set forth in
the Streets And Highways Code section 5600 et seq., shall apply to the
imposition and collection of costs and assessments.
   (C)   Liability For Injuries To Public: The owner required by subsection (B)
of this section to maintain and repair the sidewalk area shall owe a duty to
members of the public to keep and maintain the sidewalk area in a safe and
nondangerous condition. If, as a result of the failure of any property owner to
maintain the sidewalk area in a safe and nondangerous condition as required by
subsection (B) of this section, any person suffers injury to or damage to
person or property, the owner shall be liable to such person for the resulting
damage or injury.
   (D)   Notice To Repair: Where the director has actual notice of the
existence of a defective sidewalk, the director may give written notice to
repair the defective sidewalk to the owner of the lot, lots or portions thereof
adjacent to or fronting on the defective sidewalk. Service of the notice to
repair shall be by either regular U.S. mail or by personal service. The notice
to repair shall particularly specify what work is required to be done and how
the same is to be done and what materials shall be used in the repair; that if
the owner proceeds to undertake the repair by private contract, his/her
activities will be governed by the provisions of this chapter; the time period
within which the repair must be commenced by the owner; and that if the repair
is not commenced within such time period and prosecuted diligently without
interruption to completion, the director may proceed with the repair, and the
cost shall be a lien on the property upon the owner's failure to timely
reimburse the city for such cost pursuant to subsection (E) of this section.
The materials and construction work shall be in strict conformance with the
applicable portions of the city's standard specifications as they now exist, or
as they may hereafter be amended.
Prior to commencing repairs, the owner will apply for and obtain an
encroachment permit from the public works department. For the purposes of this
section, the owner is deemed to timely commence the repair of the defective
sidewalk by the filing of an application for an encroachment permit within the
time period specified in the notice to repair.
The owner may request that the city perform the repair work. If so requested,
the city may, at its sole discretion, perform the repair work with city forces,
or may contract with a vendor of the city's choosing to perform the work. In
either case the property owner will remain responsible for all costs of repair.
As provided in section
9-1-13 of this chapter, the owner may request financing of the repair costs,
not to exceed two thousand five hundred dollars ($2,500.00), from the city's
curb, gutter, and sidewalk revolving fund or a grant in the amount of two
hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) to defray a portion of such cost. The owner is
deemed to have timely commenced repair of the defective sidewalk upon approval
by the city manager of the owner's request for financing. Bills for required
repairs that were not commenced within the time frame as specified by the
notice may not be financed through the city's curb, gutter, and sidewalk
revolving fund.
The director may direct city forces to correct minor sidewalk repairs limited
to grinding and/or ramping if such repairs can be made in compliance with all
applicable laws and regulations. Said repairs are at the sole discretion of the
city, and they in no way relieve the owner of the liabilities identified in
subsection (C) of this section or any other liability, nor do they set a
precedent for future repairs.
   (E)   Failure To Make Required Repairs: If the person(s) provided with a
notice to repair fails to commence the repairs within the time period specified
in said notice, or timely commences the repair but fails to diligently
prosecute the same without interruption to completion, the director may
thereafter cause the city to make the required repairs and bill the person(s)
for the cost thereof. If such person(s) fails to pay the cost within the time
period specified in the payment invoice, the unpaid sum shall be a lien on the
lot, lots or portions thereof adjacent to or fronting on the defective
sidewalk.
   (F)   Nonexclusive: In addition to the remedies and procedures set forth in
this chapter, the director may use any other remedy in this code or available
at law. (Ord. 2014-1, 2-18-2014)
9-1-13: CURB, GUTTER AND SIDEWALK REVOLVING FUND:
A curb, gutter, and sidewalk revolving fund in the sum of twenty five thousand
dollars ($25,000.00) for financing and paying for the installation of curbs,
gutters, and sidewalks in the city is hereby established, and the finance
department is directed to transfer from the streets fund into the curb, gutter,
and sidewalk revolving fund the sum of twenty five thousand dollars
($25,000.00). The curb, gutter and sidewalk revolving fund shall thereafter be
maintained, if at all, as determined necessary by resolution of the city
council.
   (A)   Purpose: The curb, gutter, and sidewalk revolving fund shall be used
and expended only to provide monies to construct or repair curbs, gutters, and
sidewalks in public street rights of way in the city adjacent to the real
property of such of the owners thereof as may elect to cause curbs, gutters,
and sidewalks to be repaired, built, erected, constructed, and completed and
payment thereof to be made from the curb, gutter, and sidewalk revolving fund
in accordance with the provisions of this section.
   (B)   Construction Standards: All curbs, gutters, and sidewalks installed as
provided in this chapter shall be constructed in conformity with the standard
plans and specifications of the city and to the satisfaction of the city
engineer.
   (C)   Advances; Applications And Agreements: Any owner of real property
desiring to finance the construction of curbs, gutters, and sidewalks from the
curb, gutter, and sidewalk revolving fund shall make a written application and
pay an application processing fee in an amount as set and/or amended by
resolution of the city council to the public works department. The maximum
amount that may be requested is two thousand five hundred dollars ($2,500.00).
If such application is accepted and approved, the city and the owner shall
enter into a written agreement, including a promissory note, recorded on the
property for the payment for such construction from said fund. Said owner shall
by such agreement obligate himself to repay to the city all sums paid from said
fund for such construction. The entire amount thereof to be fully repaid to the
city within a period of not exceeding five (5) years from the date of such
agreement, and on such terms and under such conditions as may be set forth in
such written agreement. The entire balance due under such agreement shall
constitute a special assessment against the parcel of real property thus
benefited, and shall be a lien on the property for the amount thereof including
a prorated share of the administration cost not to exceed one hundred dollars
($100.00) per year, and shall continue to be a lien thereon until the full
amount thereof is paid and discharged in full.
Alternatively, as owner of real property desiring to construct curbs, gutters
and sidewalks may apply for and receive a grant in the maximum amount of two
hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) which shall be used as payment of all or part
of the cost of such construction. No property owner may apply for or receive
both the maximum two thousand five hundred dollar ($2,500.00) advance and the
maximum two hundred fifty dollar ($250.00) grant referred to herein.
   (D)   Advances; Assessments As Taxes: The finance department, on or before
the first Monday in March of each year, shall cause to be filed with the county
assessor a description of the property, together with the name of the owner or
reputed owner thereof, against which such special assessment shall be made, and
the installments then due and unpaid, with administrative fees, together with
all other sums of money due and unpaid under such agreement, may be assessed as
taxes against the real property, and the amount of money so assessed shall bear
the same penalties and interest as taxes regularly assessed on default of
payment thereof.
   (E)   Deposits: All money received by the city under such written agreements
or assessed or collected by the city shall be deposited in the curb, gutter,
and sidewalk revolving fund. (Ord. 2014-1, 2-18-2014)
CHAPTER 2
NUMBERING HOUSES
SECTION:
9-2-1: Numbering Of Blocks
9-2-2: Numbering Of Houses
9-2-3: Clerk To Keep Record
9-2-4: Compliance Required
9-2-1: NUMBERING OF BLOCKS:
The numbering of the blocks in the city shall be based upon the following
general plan:
Beginning in the southerly and southwesterly portions of the city, as
hereinafter stated, the higher numbers shall be used successively as the
numbering proceeds northerly and northeasterly; and beginning in the easterly
and southeasterly portion of the city, as hereinafter stated, the higher
numbers shall be used successively as the numbering proceeds westerly and
northwesterly; the Southern Pacific Railroad being taken as the dividing line
between the blocks numbered 1900 and the blocks numbered 2000, in the direction
first above mentioned, and First Street being taken as the dividing line
between the blocks numbered 1900 and the blocks numbered 2000, in the direction
second above mentioned; the aforesaid plan of numbering being otherwise
expressed as taking the railroad as a base line and using the higher numbers as
the numbering proceeds northerly and northeasterly therefrom, and the lower
numbers as the numbering proceeds southerly and southwesterly therefrom; and
taking First Street (and McCall Avenue North from its intersection with First
Street) as a base line and using the higher numbers as the numbering proceeds
northwesterly from First Street and westerly from McCall Avenue North, and
using the lower numbers as the numbering proceeds southeasterly and easterly
therefrom.
The blocks between Park Street and Nebraska Avenue shall be numbered 1900;
those between Park Street and Valley View Street shall be numbered 1800; the
blocks between McCall Avenue South and Sheridan Street shall be numbered 2000;
the blocks between Sheridan Street and Skelton Street shall be numbered 2100;
the blocks between Skelton Street and Van Horn Street shall be numbered 2200;
the blocks between Van Horn Street and Gaynor Street shall be numbered 2300;
the blocks between Gaynor Street and Thompson Avenue shall be numbered 2400;
all blocks west of Thompson Avenue shall be consecutively numbered with the
numbers progressing higher as the numbering proceeds westerly; the block north
of Nebraska Avenue shall be numbered 2000, and the numbering shall proceed in
regular order, allowing 100 numbers for each block, except as herein otherwise
stated, so that the blocks on the southwesterly side of the Southern Pacific
Railroad and West Front Street shall be numbered 1900 as aforesaid, and the
blocks on the northeasterly side of the railroad and East Front Street shall be
numbered 2000, as aforesaid. Owing to the irregularity of the blocks and
streets in the easterly portion of the city, all blocks between Tucker Street
and Grove Street shall be numbered 2000; all blocks between Grove Street and
Mill Street and along the alley between Grove Street and Locust Street to the
intersection of Peach Street shall be numbered 2100; all blocks between Peach
Street and East Street, and Block "A" and the southwesterly one-half (1/2) of
Block "C" in Frey's Addition shall be numbered 2200; all blocks between East
Street and Rose Avenue, and all of Block "B", the northeasterly one-half (1/2)
of Block "C", all of Block "D", the Selma Lincoln Park, the fractional blocks
numbered 1, 2 and 3, in Frey's Addition, and the corresponding portion of the
property between Grange Avenue and the canal shall be numbered 2300; all blocks
between Rose Avenue and Arrants Street shall be numbered 2400; and the block on
the north side of Arrants Street shall be numbered 2500; thence north
consecutively; the blocks between McCall Avenue South and West Front Street,
excepting along Park Street, shall be numbered 1900; the blocks between McCall
Avenue South and West Front Street along Park Street shall be numbered as
follows: between McCall Avenue South and Otis Street shall be numbered 1900;
between Otis Street and Sylvia Street shall be numbered 1800; between Sylvia
Street and Whitson Street shall be numbered 1700; and between Whitson Street
and West Front Street shall be numbered 1600.
The numbering from the easterly and southeasterly portions of the city toward
the westerly and northwesterly portion thereof shall proceed so that the block
on the northwesterly side of South Avenue, in South Park Addition, shall be
numbered 1100, and all blocks on the west side of Olive Street shall be
numbered 1400, and the numbering shall proceed thence consecutively where
possible. Owing to the irregularities of blocks and streets, the fractional
blocks between Locust Street and Orange Avenue shall be numbered 1500; also the
block between Orange Avenue and Keith Street, and between Orange Avenue and
Third Street, and between Orange Avenue and "C" Street, shall be numbered 1600;
Fourth Street and Third Street in Whitson's Addition, and between Third Street
in Cooper's Addition and Selma Street, and between "C" Street and "B" Street,
and all of Block I in Cooper's Addition shall be numbered 1700; all blocks
between Third Street and Second Street in Whitson's Addition, and between Selma
Street and McCall Avenue, and between "B" Street and "A" Street, also Block "I"
of the city and Cooper's Addition, shall be numbered 1800; all blocks between
Second Street and First Street, and between "A" Street and McCall Avenue North
shall be numbered 1900; thence the numbering shall proceed in regular
succession, the portion of Walker Addition between Arrants Street and Stillman
Street being numbered 2200, and between Stillman Street and Gaither Street
shall be numbered 2300. (Ord. 431, 6-4-1951)
9-2-2: NUMBERING OF HOUSES:
Stores, dwellings and other occupancies along the streets of the city when
numbered shall be numbered according to the following method:
One hundred (100) numbers, or as many thereof as shall be necessary, shall be
assigned to each block or fractional block, except as in this chapter otherwise
provided, and the odd numbers shall be used consecutively on the left hand
sides of the streets, following the directions in which the block numbers
increase. Two (2) numbers shall be assigned to each twenty five foot (25') or
thirty foot (30') lot as officially platted, and where lots are platted with a
greater frontage than thirty feet (30'), and where the long sides of the lots
lie along the streets, and where blocks have not been subdivided into regular
lots, two (2) numbers shall be assigned to each twenty five feet (25') or major
fraction thereof. The numbers shall be of conspicuous size, and when placed on
the stores, dwellings or other occupancies, they shall be placed in conspicuous
positions and so as to be visible at all times whether the doors are open or
closed, and must not be obscured by screens. (Ord. 431, 6-4-1951)
9-2-3: CLERK TO KEEP RECORD:
The numbering provided for in this chapter shall be under the supervision of
the clerk, and when any owner of property in the city shall apply to the clerk
for information regarding the numbering of his buildings or occupancies, it
shall be the duty of the clerk to furnish the information applied for, free of
charge. (Ord. 431, 6-4-1951)
9-2-4: COMPLIANCE REQUIRED:
All business houses, dwellings and other occupancies in the city shall be
numbered in accordance with the requirements of this chapter, and every owner
of a business house, dwelling or other occupancy who shall permit the same to
remain unnumbered, or not numbered in accordance with this chapter, shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor. (Ord. 431, 6-4-1951)
CHAPTER 3
WEEDS
SECTION:
9-3-1: Public Nuisances
9-3-2: Definitions
9-3-3: Enforcement By Environmental Control Officer
9-3-4: Notice To Owner And/Or Occupant Of Existence Of Public Nuisance
9-3-5: Notice To Remove; Manner Of Posting And Mailing
9-3-6: Entry Upon Private Property To Inspect For And Abate Nuisances
9-3-7: Removal Of Weeds, Rubbish, Refuse And Dirt By Property Owner
9-3-8: Failure To Remove, Performance Of Work By City; Costs; Lien
9-3-9: Account Of Cost Of Abatement; Submission Of Itemized Report To City
Council
9-3-10: Receipt Of Amounts And Issuance Of Receipts By City Clerk
9-3-11: Cost Of Abatement Constitutes Special Assessment; Lien
9-3-12: Filing Copy Of Report With County Assessor, County Tax Collector And
County Auditor
9-3-13: Date Of Removal Of Weeds And Grass
9-3-14: Public Nuisances
9-3-1: PUBLIC NUISANCES:
The following are declared to be public nuisances in the city:
   (A)   All weeds growing upon the street, sidewalks, or private property in
the city.
   (B)   All rubbish, refuse and dirt upon the parkways, streets, alleys,
sidewalks, or private property in the city.
   (C)   All garbage upon parkways, sidewalks, streets, alleys, or private
property in the city.
   (D)   All abandoned, wrecked, dismantled or inoperative vehicles or parts of
same on public or private property as defined in this code.
   (E)   All grass deposits or other obstructions situated or placed on
sidewalks, parkings and parkways or streets as provided and described in
Government Code section 39502.
   (F)   Any sidewalk which is out of repair or pending reconstruction and is
in such a condition to endanger persons or property or in a condition to
interfere with the public convenience in the use of such sidewalk as described
and provided in Streets And Highway Code section 5611. (Ord. 849, 12-20-1982)
9-3-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following shall mean:
   ENVIRONMENTAL CONTROL OFFICER: Director of public works, his assistants and
deputies, or other public officer designated by the city council to perform the
duties imposed by this chapter upon the environmental control officer.
   GARBAGE: As defined in section
8-1-1 of this code.
   IN FRONT OF WHICH THE NUISANCE EXISTS: Includes to the rear of or abutting
the property upon which the nuisance exists.
   RUBBISH: As defined in section
8-1-1 of this code.
   STREET: Includes public street, alley, lane, court or other place.
   WEEDS: Includes any of the following:
   (A)   Weeds which bear seeds of a downy or wingy nature.
   (B)   Sagebrush, chaparral, or any other brush or weeds which attain such
large growth as to become, when dry, a fire menace or nuisance to adjacent
property.
   (C)   Weeds which are otherwise noxious or dangerous.
   (D)   Poison oak and poison ivy when the conditions of growth are such as to
constitute a menace to the public health.
   (E)   Dry grass, stubble, brush, litter, or other flammable material which
endangers the public safety by creating a fire hazard.
   (F)   Weeds which are seasonal and recurrent nuisances. (Ord. 849, 12-20-
1982)
9-3-3: ENFORCEMENT BY ENVIRONMENTAL CONTROL OFFICER:
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the environmental control officer to enforce
the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   When possible, and at his request, the public works, police and/or
fire departments shall aid him. (Ord. 849, 12-20-1982)
9-3-4: NOTICE TO OWNER AND/OR OCCUPANT OF EXISTENCE OF PUBLIC NUISANCE:
When in the opinion of the environmental control officer a public nuisance, as
provided in section
9-3-1 of this chapter exists, he shall give or cause to be given notice as
hereinafter provided directing the removal of said public nuisance within
fourteen (14) days following the date of notice or in default of this being
done, the city shall proceed to abate such nuisance and assess the costs of
clearing the parcel to the owners and/or occupant or to the owner whose land
fronts on said sidewalks, he shall give two (2) weeks' notice. (Ord. 849, 12-
20-1982)
9-3-5: NOTICE TO REMOVE; MANNER OF POSTING AND MAILING:
   (A)   Posting: Such notice shall be given by posting a notice in a
conspicuous place upon the property, lots, or buildings upon or in which such
weeds, grass, rubbish, or other easily combustible material is found, which
notice shall be headed, "Notice To Clean Premises", in letters not less than
one inch (1") in height, and which, in legible characters, shall direct the
removal of such weeds, grass, rubbish, or other combustible material within
fourteen (14) days from the posting or service thereof, which date of posting
or service shall be stated in such notice. Said notice shall include the
following:
Within fourteen (14) days of the date of posting of this notice, you have the
right to appeal the decision of the Environmental Control Officer to the City
Council by filing a written request with the City Administrator. Your appeal
will be scheduled and heard at the next regular City Council meeting. The
decision of the City Council shall be final.
   (B)   Mailing: A copy of such notice shall also be sent by mail to the
property owner as shown on the last equalized assessment roll. (Ord. 849, 12-
20-1982)
9-3-6: ENTRY UPON PRIVATE PROPERTY TO INSPECT FOR AND ABATE NUISANCES:
The environmental control officer may enter upon private property to inspect
for and abate the nuisance. (Ord. 849, 12-20-1982)
9-3-7: REMOVAL OF WEEDS, RUBBISH, REFUSE AND DIRT BY PROPERTY OWNER:
Before the environmental control officer arrives, any property owner may remove
the weeds, rubbish, garbage, refuse, vehicles, grass or other obstructions and
dirt, or repair the sidewalks at his own expense. (Ord. 849, 12-20-1982)
9-3-8: FAILURE TO REMOVE; PERFORMANCE OF WORK BY CITY; COSTS; LIEN:
Should such owner or occupant fail, refuse, or neglect to remove such weeds,
grass, rubbish, or other easily combustible material within such time as may be
prescribed, the environmental control officer may employ labor and equipment to
have the same done under his direction at the expense of the city and upon
payment of the cost by the city. Such owner of the property shall be indebted
to the city for the cost thereof, and there shall be created a lien against
such property in an amount equal to all costs involved in such work. In an
action to recover the costs thereof, the city shall be entitled to recover in
such action a reasonable attorney fee to be fixed by the court and to be paid,
in addition to the costs of such work, by the owner of such property. (Ord.
849, 12-20-1982)
9-3-9: ACCOUNT OF COST OF ABATEMENT; SUBMISSION OF ITEMIZED REPORT TO CITY
COUNCIL:
The environmental control officer shall keep an account of the cost of
abatement in front of or on each separate parcel of land where the work is done
by him. He shall submit to the city council for confirmation an itemized
written report showing such cost, and shall post a copy of the costs on each
separate parcel of land. (Ord. 849, 12-20-1982)
9-3-10: RECEIPT OF AMOUNTS AND ISSUANCE OF RECEIPTS BY CITY CLERK:
The city clerk may receive the amount due on the abatement cost and issue
receipts at any time after the confirmation of the report and until August 1
following the confirmation of the report. (Ord. 849, 12-20-1982)
9-3-11: COST OF ABATEMENT CONSTITUTES SPECIAL ASSESSMENT; LIEN:
The cost of abatement in front of or upon each parcel of land constitutes a
special assessment against the parcel. After the assessment is made and
confirmed, it is a lien on the parcel. (Ord. 849, 12-20-1982)
9-3-12: FILING COPY OF REPORT WITH COUNTY ASSESSOR, COUNTY TAX COLLECTOR AND
COUNTY AUDITOR:
After confirmation of the report, the city council shall by resolution, assess
the cost of same to each parcel of land involved and the city clerk shall
certify such assessment to the county assessor and tax collector who shall
place the same upon the tax roll for collection as a special tax in addition to
the taxes for general revenue purposes and who shall collect the same in the
same manner and subject to the same penalties as other city taxes. A certified
copy of the report shall be filed with the county auditor on or before August
10 of each year. (Ord. 849, 12-20-1982)
9-3-13: DATE OF REMOVAL OF WEEDS AND GRASS:
All weeds and grass shall be removed from parkways, lots and all private
property on or before April 1 of each year by the owner of the parcel upon
which the nuisance exists, or as often as may be deemed necessary during the
year by the environmental control officer. (Ord. 849, 12-20-1982)
9-3-14: PUBLIC NUISANCES:
A rubbish, refuse, weeds, and structure removal revolving fund in the sum of
twenty five thousand dollars ($25,000.00) for financing and paying for the
cleanup of property in the city is hereby established, and the finance
department is directed to transfer from the transit fund into the rubbish,
refuse, weeds, and structure removal revolving fund, the sum of twenty five
thousand dollars ($25,000.00). The rubbish, refuse, weeds, and structure
removal revolving fund shall thereafter be maintained, if at all, as determined
necessary by resolution of the city council.
   (A)   Purpose: The rubbish, refuse, weeds, and structure removal revolving
fund shall be used and expended only to provide monies to property owners for
the cleanup, removal, and abatement of nuisances that are declared a public
nuisances by environmental control officer.
   (B)   Public Nuisances Standards Of Cleanup, Removal, And Abatement: All
property cleanup, removal, and abatement as provided in this chapter shall
conform with the standards and specifications of the city and to the
satisfaction of the environmental control officer.
   (C)   Advances; Applications And Agreements: Any owner of real property
desiring to finance the cleanup, removal, and abatement using the rubbish,
refuse, weeds, and structure removal revolving fund shall make a written
application and pay an application processing fee in an amount as set and/or
amended by resolution of the city council to the finance department. The
maximum amount that may be requested is two thousand five hundred dollars
($2,500.00) for cleanup or five thousand dollars ($5,000) for demolition of
structure. If such application is accepted and approved, the city and the owner
shall enter into a written agreement, including a promissory note, recorded on
the property for the payment for such cleanup, removal, and abatement of
rubbish, refuse, weeds, and structure on property from the fund. The owner
shall by such agreement obligate himself or herself to repay to the city all
sums paid from the fund for such cleanup, removal, and abatement of property.
The entire amount thereof to be fully repaid to the city within a period of not
exceeding five (5) years from the date of such agreement, and on such terms and
under such conditions as may be set forth in such written agreement. The entire
balance due under such agreement shall constitute a special assessment against
the parcel of real property thus benefitted, and shall be a lien on the
property for the amount thereof, including a prorated share of the
administration cost not to exceed one hundred dollars ($100.00) per year, and
shall continue to be a lien thereon until the full amount thereof is paid and
discharged in full. Property owner shall only have one (1) loan agreement at a
time but may reapply once an obligation is fulfilled.
   (D)   Advances; Assessments As Taxes: The finance department, on or before
the first Monday in March of each year, shall cause to be filed with the county
assessor a description of the property, together with the name of the owner or
reputed owner thereof, against which such special assessment shall be made, and
the installments then due and unpaid, with administrative fees, together with
all other sums of money due and unpaid under such agreement, may be assessed as
taxes against the real property, and the amount of money so assessed shall bear
the same penalties and interest as taxes regularly assessed on default of
payment thereof.
   (E)   Deposits: All money received by the city under such written agreements
or assessed or collected by the city shall be deposited in the rubbish, refuse,
weeds, and structure removal revolving fund. (Ord. 2019-7, 12-2-2019)
CHAPTER 4
TREES AND SHRUBBERY
SECTION:
9-4-1: Title; Enforcement
9-4-2: Permission To Plant Trees
9-4-3: Street Tree Plan
9-4-4: Prohibited Trees
9-4-5: Removal Of Trees
9-4-6: Dangerous Trees A Nuisance; Power To Remove (Rep. by Ord. 852, 2-22-
1983)
9-4-7: Appeals (Rep. by Ord. 852, 2-22-1983)
9-4-8: Trimming Trees; Permit
9-4-9: Abuse Or Mutilation Of Trees
9-4-10: Protection Of Trees During Construction
9-4-11: Permit For Public Utility
9-4-1: TITLE; ENFORCEMENT:
This chapter shall be known as the TREE REGULATIONS and may be cited as such.
The director of public works, or his duly authorized representative, shall be
charged with the enforcement of this chapter. (Ord. 472, 11-1-1954)
9-4-2: PERMISSION TO PLANT TREES:
No trees or shrubs shall hereafter be planted in or removed from any public
parking strip or other public place in the city without the permission from the
director of public works. (Ord. 472, 11-1-1954; amd. Ord. 852, 2-22-1983)
9-4-3: STREET TREE PLAN:
All trees and shrubs hereafter planted in any public parking strip or other
public place in the city shall conform as to species and location with the
recommendation of the Saratoga horticultural foundation or to the street tree
plan of the city which are hereby made a part of this chapter. (Ord. 472, 11-1-
1954)
9-4-4: PROHIBITED TREES:
It shall be unlawful to plant in any public parking strip the following trees:
 
Acacia       Elm    Tree of Heaven
Black Walnut Palm   Conifers
Eucalyptus   Poplar Sycamore
 
It shall be unlawful to plant willow, cottonwood or poplar trees anywhere in
the City unless the Director of Public Works approves the site as one where the
tree roots will not interfere with a public sewer. (Ord. 472, 11-1-54; amd.
Ord. 852, 2-22-83)
9-4-5: REMOVAL OF TREES:
It shall be the policy of the City to conserve mature and healthy trees
whenever feasible; provided, however, the Director of Public Works may cause
trees to be removed when the Director of Public Works in his discretion
determines that removal outweighs the interest in conservation of said tree.
Where roots from trees, shrubs or plants growing in a parking strip, any public
place or in private property cause or may cause damage to sidewalks, curbs,
gutters, driveways or public or private utilities, the Director of Public Works
shall investigate and shall order corrective action. The Director of Public
Works shall give written notice to the occupant or owner of such property or to
the occupant or owner of property abutting a parking strip requiring that
necessary trimming, root pruning or removal be performed by the occupant or
owner at occupant or owner's expense. Owner or occupant may, within ten (10)
days of date of mailing of the notice of required corrective action, request an
appeal of the Director's decision to the City Council. The decision of the
Council shall be final.
If the occupant or owner does not request an appeal and if the corrective
action is not taken within the required ten (10) days by the occupant or owner,
then in that event the Director of Public Works shall proceed to perform the
required work and shall then charge the occupant or owner for all costs
involved and such cost shall be a lien against the real property of the owner.
Nothing contained herein shall be deemed to impose any liability upon the City
or to relieve the occupant or owner of any private property from the duty to
keep any tree, shrub or plant upon his property or under his control in such
condition as to prevent it from constituting a hazard to persons or property.
Nothing in this Section shall preclude the immediate removal by City forces of
any obstruction, nuisance or overhang which the Director of Public Works
determines to be a public safety hazard. (Ord. 852, 2-22-83)
9-4-6: DANGEROUS TREES A NUISANCE; POWER TO REMOVE:
(Rep. by Ord. 852, 2-22-83)
9-4-7: APPEALS:
(Rep. by Ord. 852, 2-22-83)
9-4-8: TRIMMING TREES; PERMIT:
No person shall cut, trim, prune, plant, remove, injure or interfere with any
tree, shrub or plant upon any street, park, pleasure ground, boulevard, alley
or public place of the City without the prior permission and approval therefor
from the Director of Public Works. The Director of Public Works is hereby
authorized to grant such permission in his discretion and, where necessary,
subject to the condition that the removed tree be replaced by an official tree
in conformity with the street tree plan at the sole cost and expense of the
occupant or owner of the property. No such permission shall be valid for a
longer period than thirty (30) days after its date of issuance. (Ord. 852, 2-
22-83)
9-4-9: ABUSE OR MUTILATION OF TREES:
It shall be a violation of this Chapter to abuse, destroy or mutilate any tree,
shrub or plant in a public parking strip or any other public place, or to
attach or place any rope, wire, other than one used to support a young or
broken tree, sign, poster, handbill or other things to or on any tree growing
in a public place, or to cause or permit any wire charged with electricity to
be attached to any tree, or to allow any gaseous, liquid or solid substances
which are harmful to trees to come in contact with their roots or leaves. (Ord.
472, 11-1-54)
9-4-10: PROTECTION OF TREES DURING CONSTRUCTION:
During the erection, repair, alteration or removal of any building, house or
structure in the City no person shall leave any tree in any public street in
the vicinity of such building or structure without such good and sufficient
guards or protectors as shall prevent injury to said tree.
9-4-11: PERMIT FOR PUBLIC UTILITY:
Any person doing business as a public utility subject to the jurisdiction of
the Public Utilities Commission of the State of California, and any duly
constituted public agency authorized to provide and providing utility service,
may be given a permit from the Director, valid for one year from the date of
issuance, permitting such person to trim, brace, remove or perform such similar
acts with respect to trees growing within the public streets, as may be
necessary to the City, or which overhang such public streets, as may be
necessary to comply with the safety regulations of said Commission or public
agency and as may be necessary to maintain the safe operation of its business.
(Ord. 852, 2-22-83)
CHAPTER 5
RAILROADS
SECTION:
9-5-1: Speed of Trains
9-5-2: Trains Not to Block Streets
9-5-3: Minors Loitering Near Trains Prohibited
9-5-1: SPEED OF TRAINS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to run or operate, or cause to be run or
operated through or in the Corporate Limits, any freight train, passenger
train, railroad locomotive, engine, or railroad car at a faster rate of speed
than forty five miles per hour (45 m.p.h.) between the hours of 5:00 A.M. and
11:00 P.M. of any day and for the time each day not covered by this Chapter,
there is no limit upon the speed of the railroad rolling equipment. (Ord. 359,
8-21-44)
9-5-2: TRAINS NOT TO BLOCK STREETS:
No person shall operate any train or train of cars, or permit the same to
remain standing, so as to block the movement of traffic upon any street for a
period of time longer than five (5) minutes. (Ord. 406, 6-6-49)
9-5-3: MINORS LOITERING NEAR TRAINS PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any minor, under the age of twenty-one (21) years, to
get on or off, or attempt to get on or off, any car or train of cars, while the
same is in motion. (Ord. 51, 4-15-93)
CHAPTER 6
SUBDIVISIONS
SECTION:
9-6-1.00: General Provisions
9-6-2.00: Definitions
9-6-3.00: Conformance to Zoning Ordinance and Plans
9-6-4.00: Maps, Generally
9-6-5.00: Preliminary Maps
9-6-6.00: Tentative Maps
9-6-7.00: Final Maps
9-6-8.00: Parcel Maps
9-6-9.00: Dedications, Fees, Reimbursement and Reservations, Certain Public
Facilities
9-6-10.00: Design and Improvement Standards
9-6-11.00: Exceptions and Deferrals
9-6-12.00: Fees, Bonds and Deposits
9-6-13.00: Reversion to Acreage
9-6-14.00: Subdivision Penalties
9-6-15.00: Revocation Clause
9-6-1.00: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
9-6-1.01: TITLE, PURPOSE:
Sections 9-6-1 through 9-6-15 shall be known as and may be cited as the
Subdivision Ordinance of the City and is deemed necessary in order to protect
the public health, safety, and general welfare, including the orderly growth
and the development of the City; the beneficial use of land in the public
interest; the conservation, stabilization and protection of property values,
and to assure provision for necessary utilities, public roads, and other public
conveniences in subdivided areas.
9-6-1.02: AUTHORITY TO REGULATE:
Pursuant to the authority conferred by Title 7, Division 2 of the California
Government Code cited as the Subdivision Map Act and in addition to any other
regulations provided by law, the regulations contained in Sections 9-6-
1 through 9-6-15 are established herewith and shall apply to all subdivisions
or parts of subdivisions wholly or partly within the City, and to the
preparation, filing, and approval of maps.
9-6-1.03: GOVERNING PROVISIONS:
The design, improvement and survey data for subdivisions, the form and content
of tentative, final and parcel maps, and the procedure to be followed in
securing official approval shall be governed by the provisions of the
Subdivision Map Act and by the additional provisions of Sections 9-6-1 through
9-6-15.
9-6-1.04: APPLICABILITY:
   (A)   The provisions of Sections 9-6-1 through 9-6-15 shall not apply to any
lot or lots forming a part of a subdivision created and recorded prior to the
effective date of the Ordinance codified in Sections 9-6-1 through 9-6-15,
unless those lots are hereafter proposed for further subdivision. It is not
intended by Sections 9-6-1 through 9-6-15 to repeal, abrogate, annul, or in any
way impair or interfere with existing provisions of other laws or ordinances,
(except those specifically repealed by the Ordinance codified in Sections 9-6-
1 through 9-6-15) or with private restrictions placed upon the property by
deed, covenant, or other private agreements, or with restrictive covenants
running with the land. Only those improvement standards, applicable at the time
a tentative subdivision or parcel map is approved, shall be imposed.
   (B)   The provisions of Section 9-6-1 through 9-6-15 shall not be applicable
to:
      1.   The financing or leasing of apartments, offices, stores or similar
space within apartment buildings, industrial buildings, commercial buildings,
mobile home parks or trailer parks;
      2.   Mineral, oil or gas leases;
      3.   Land dedicated for cemetery purposes under the Health and Safety
Code of the State.
      4.   A lot line adjustment between two (2) or more existing adjacent
parcels, where the land taken from one parcel is added to an adjacent parcel,
and where a greater number of parcels than originally existed is not thereby
created, provided the lot line adjustment is approved by the Planning
Commission following the filing by the subdivider of an application therefor,
furnished by the City, and the payment of an application processing fee in a
sum as may be established by Council resolution;
      5.   Boundary line or exchange agreements to which the State Lands
Commission or a local agency holding a trust grant of tide and submerged lands
is a party;
      6.   A tentative map may be required where a parcel map is required by
this Ordinance. A parcel map shall be required for subdivisions as to which a
final or parcel map is not otherwise required by this Ordinance, unless the
preparation of such parcel map is subject to Section
9-6-8.02(G), as prescribed herein, and provided further that a parcel map shall
not be required for subdivisions created by short term leases (terminable by
either party on not more than thirty (30) days' notice in writing) of a portion
of the operating right of way of a railroad corporation defined as such by
Section 230 of the Public Utilities Code, or for land conveyed to or from a
governmental agency, public entity or public utility or to a subsidiary of a
public utility for conveyance to such public utility for rights of way, unless
a showing is made in individual cases, upon substantial evidence, that public
policy necessitates such a parcel map.
      7.   A developer may obtain from the City, a procedural form for
obtaining a waiver of the requirements for a parcel map as prescribed under
Section
9-6-8.02 (G). The Subdivision Committee shall make a finding, based upon
accurate data being submitted by a developer or individual, that the proposed
division of land complies with all requirements of the City Subdivision
Ordinance, Zoning Ordinance, and other applicable laws and regulations enacted
pursuant thereto as to area, improvements and design, floodwater drainage
control, appropriate improved public roads, sanitary disposal facilities, water
supply availability, environmental protection, and other requirements. In any
case, where the requirement for a parcel map is waived pursuant to provisions
of this Ordinance, a tentative map may be required, prepared pursuant to
Section
9-6-8.02. (Ord. 803, 6-18-79)
9-6-1.05: SEPARATE MAPS, WHEN REQUIRED:
A separate map shall be prepared for each subdivision where land is separated
from other land in a parcel or holding by a division other than a street,
highway, approved private road, alley, railroad right-of-way, flood control
right-of-way, canal or public utility right-of-way.
9-6-1.06: CONTROL OF DESIGN AND IMPROVEMENT:
Control of design and improvement of subdivisions is vested in the City
Council.
9-6-1.07: MAP APPROVAL, GENERALLY:
Jurisdiction to approve tentative and final subdivision maps within the City is
vested in the City Council. Jurisdiction to approve tentative parcel maps is
vested in the Planning Commission. Authority to approve parcel maps conforming
to approved tentative parcel maps is delegated to the secretary of the Planning
Commission.
9-6-1.08: ADVISORY AGENCY:
The Planning Commission is designated as the advisory agency to the City
Council on all matters related to the subdivision of land.
9-6-1.09: COMMISSION, POWERS AND DUTIES:
The Planning Commission shall have all the powers and duties, with respect to
the filing of tentative subdivision maps, making investigations and reports to
the City Council on design and improvements, recommending action on tentative
maps and the establishment of procedures related to the processing thereof, and
approval of tentative parcel maps and parcel maps which are specified by law
and in Sections 1.00 through 15.00.
9-6-1.10: DELEGATION OF POWERS AND DUTIES:
Whenever, by the provisions of Sections 1.00 through 15.00, a power or
authority is given to, or where a duty is imposed upon any public officer, it
may be exercised or performed by any deputy or departmental employee authorized
by him pursuant to law unless it is expressly provided that it shall be
exercised in person.
9-6-2.00: DEFINITIONS:
9-6-2.01: GENERALLY:
The definitions and meanings of the words and phrases, which are defined in the
Subdivision Map Act, are used in Sections 1.00 through 15.00, as defined in
this Article, unless from the context hereof it clearly appears that a
different meaning is intended. The word "may" indicates an action which is
permissive. The word "shall" indicates an action which is mandatory. All words
in the singular shall include the plural, and plural the singular. Each gender
shall include the other. Each tense shall include the other tenses.
9-6-2.02: ABUT:
"Abut" means to be contiguous to and in actual contact along a common line.
9-6-2.03: ACCESS ROAD:
"Access road" means a road which connects a subdivision to a public road.
9-6-2.04: ALLEY:
"Alley" means any dedicated way intended for vehicular service to the rear or
the side of property served by a public road.
9-6-2.05: APPROVED:
"Approved" means approved by the City Council or by the department having
jurisdiction on such matters, unless otherwise specified.
9-6-2.06: APPROVED PRIVATE ROAD:
"Approved private road" means a strip of land approved by the City Council for
road purposes, which has not been dedicated or accepted as a public road and
which connects a parcel of land with a public road.
9-6-2.07: ARTERIAL, COLLECTOR AND LOCAL COLLECTOR:
"Arterial", "collector" and "local collector" means a road designated as such
in the circulation element of the General Plan of the City, adopted by the City
Council.
9-6-2.08: CITY ENGINEER:
"City Engineer" means the City Engineer for the City, duly appointed by the
City Council.
9-6-2.09: CITY PLANNER:
"City Planner" means the City Planner for the City, duly appointed by the City
Council.
9-6-2.10: CLERK:
"Clerk" means the City Clerk for the City, duly appointed by the City Council.
9-6-2.11: COMMISSION:
"Commission" means the City Planning Commission.
9-6-2.12: COMMUNITY APARTMENT:
"Community apartment" means an undivided interest in common in the land coupled
with the right of exclusive occupancy of an apartment unit which is part of a
community apartment project.
9-6-2.13: CONDOMINIUM:
"Condominium" means an estate in real property consisting of an undivided
interest in common in a portion of a parcel of real property together with a
separate interest in space in a residential, industrial or commercial building
on such real property, such as an apartment, office or store.
9-6-2.14: COUNCIL:
"Council" means the City Council.
9-6-2.15: COUNTY CLERK:
"County Clerk" or "County Clerk-Recorder" shall mean the County Clerk-Recorder
of the County of Fresno.
9-6-2.16: CUL-DE-SAC:
"Cul-de-sac" means a road which terminates in a permanent turn-around and which
by design is not intended to continue beyond its terminal point.
9-6-2.17: DEAD END ROAD:
"Dead end road" (stub road) means a road which is terminated at the boundary
line of the subdivision but which will be required to be extended at a later
date to provide access to abutting land.
9-6-2.18: DEDICATED ROAD:
"Dedicated road" means a right-of-way dedicated to the City for road purposes
and legally accepted as such by the City.
9-6-2.19: DESIGN:
"Design" means:
   (A)   Street alignments, grades and widths;
   (B)   Drainage and sanitary facilities and utilities including alignments
and grades thereof;
   (C)   Location and size of all required easements and rights-of-way;
   (D)   Fire roads and firebreaks;
   (E)   Lot size and configuration;
   (F)   Traffic access;
   (G)   Grading;
   (H)   Land to be dedicated for park or recreation purposes;
   (I)   Such other specific requirements in the plan and configuration of the
entire subdivision as may be necessary or convenient to insure conformity to or
implementation of the General Plan or adopted specific plans.
9-6-2.20: DIVIDING STRIP:
"Dividing strip" means a separation between opposite directional flows of
traffic. It may also serve to separate a road or highway from the parallel
frontage road which provides access to property.
9-6-2.21: DOUBLE FRONTAGE LOT:
"Double frontage lot" (or through lot) means a lot having frontage on two (2)
roads and having the right of access to both of those roads, but excluding
corner lots.
9-6-2.22: EASEMENT FOR PUBLIC ROAD:
"Easement for public road" means a right-of-way offered to the City for road
purposes by a division of land. Upon acceptance by the City, it is deemed a
City road, as defined above.
9-6-2.23: EXISTING LOT OR BUILDING SITE:
"Existing lot or building site" means a designated lot or contiguous lots on a
lawfully established subdivision map or record of survey so existing upon the
effective date of the Ordinance codified in Sections 1.00 through 15.00, or a
whole parcel of land under separate ownership so existing upon the effective
date of the Ordinance codified in Sections 1.00 through 15.00, or such a lot or
separate parcel of land thereafter lawfully created.
9-6-2.24: EXPRESSWAY:
"Expressway" means a highway for through traffic with full or partial control
of access and generally with intersections at grade.
9-6-2.25: FINAL MAP:
"Final map" is the official map which is recorded by the County Clerk
indicating the divisions of land within the subdivision. It shall conform with
the requirements of Section
9-6-9.00.
9-6-2.26: FREEWAY:
"Freeway" means a highway for through traffic with full control of access and
generally with grade separation at intersections.
9-6-2.27: FRONTAGE:
"Frontage" means that portion of a parcel of property which abuts on a public
or approved private road.
9-6-2.28: FRONTAGE ROAD:
"Frontage road" (service road or outer highway) means those roads which
parallel freeways, expressways or highways, providing for access to abutting
property or for circulation, and which are separated from the highway by a
dividing strip.
9-6-2.29: GENERAL PLAN:
"General Plan" means the long range, comprehensive General Plan for the orderly
development of the City, adopted by the Planning Commission and the City
Council, which may include any of the elements listed in the Government Code of
the State.
9-6-2.30: IMPROVEMENT PLANS:
"Improvement plans" means the plans, profiles, cross sections and
specifications of all proposed improvements, including the information required
by Section
 9-6-10.41.
9-6-2.31: IMPROVEMENT:
   (A)   "Improvement" refers to such street work and utilities to be
installed, or agreed to be installed, by the subdivider on the land to be used
for public or private streets, highways, ways and easements as are necessary
for the general use of the lot owners in the subdivision and local neighborhood
traffic and drainage needs as a condition precedent to the approval and
acceptance of the final map or parcel map.
   (B)   "Improvement" also refers to such other specific improvements or types
of improvements, the installation of which, either by the subdivider, by public
agencies, by private utilities, by any other entity approved by the City
Council, or by a combination thereof, is necessary or convenient to insure
conformity to or implementation of the General Plan, or any approved specific
plan.
9-6-2.32: IMPROVEMENT STANDARDS:
"Improvement standards" means the design and improvement requirements
established by the City Council by Ordinance applicable at the time of approval
of the tentative subdivision map or tentative parcel map.
9-6-2.33: LOCAL ROAD:
"Local road" means any public road that is used or is intended to be used for
the principal purpose of serving as access to abutting property.
9-6-2.34: LOT:
"Lot" means:
   (A)   A parcel of real property with a separate and distinct number or other
designation shown on a subdivision map recorded in the office of the County
Recorder; or
   (B)   A parcel of real property delineated on an approved record of survey
map or parcel map as filed in the office of the County Clerk-Recorder and, if
required by the zoning ordinance, abutting at least one public road or approved
private road.
9-6-2.35: MAP ACT:
"Map Act" means the Subdivision Map Act as set forth in Title 7, Division 2,
Government Code of the State of California.
9-6-2.36: MASTER PLAN:
"Master Plan" means the same as General Plan.
9-6-2.37: NONACCESS LINE:
"Nonaccess line" means a line delineated on a subdivision map, or described in
a deed, which is for the purpose of prohibiting access.
9-6-2.38: OUTLOT:
"Outlot" means a lot designated alphabetically on the subdivision map for
specific use or nonuse.
9-6-2.39: PARCEL MAP:
"Parcel map" means the map prepared for acceptance by the City and the County
Clerk-Recorder in accordance with the approved tentative map as provided for in
Section
 9-8-1.00 and State laws.
9-6-2.40: PERSON:
"Person" means and includes any individual, firm, copartnership, joint venture,
association, corporation, estate, receiver, syndicate, or any group or
combination acting as a unit, and the plural as well as the singular number.
9-6-2.41: PLAN LINE:
"Plan line" means precise plan line.
9-6-2.42: PRECISE PLAN LINE:
"Precise plan lines" or "specific plan line" means the future right-of-way
lines or plan lines of any highway as shown on the precise plan of streets and
highways for highway use or on a specific plan as adopted by the City Council.
9-6-2.43: PRIVATE ROAD:
"Private road" means the same as approved private road.
9-6-2.44: PUBLIC ROAD:
"Public road" means any State highway, County or City street, avenue, highway
or road which is within the maintained road system of the public agency having
jurisdiction thereof or to be included within the maintained road system by
agreement between said agencies and the subdivider.
9-6-2.45: RESTRICTED ACCESS STRIP:
"Restricted access strip" means a strip of land not less than one foot (1') in
width for the purpose of regulating access to part-width and dead-end roads
until such time as such roads may be completed or extended.
9-6-2.46: SETBACK LINE, FRONT YARD:
"Front yard setback line" means the line which defines the depth of the
required front yard measured from the right-of-way line or plan line when one
has been established.
9-6-2.47: SETBACK LINE, REAR YARD OR SIDE YARD:
"Rear yard or side yard setback line" means the line which defines the width or
depth of the required rear yard or side yard measured from the property line.
9-6-2.48: STUB ROAD:
"Stub road" (dead-end road) means a road which is terminated at the boundary
line of the subdivision but which will be required to be extended at a later
date to provide access to abutting land.
9-6-2.49: SUBDIVIDER:
"Subdivider" means a person, firm, corporation, partnership or association who
proposes to divide, divides or causes to be divided the real property into a
subdivision for himself or for others.
9-6-2.50: SUBDIVISION:
"Subdivision", for the purposes of this Chapter, means a division of any
improved or unimproved land shown on the latest equalized County assessment
role as a unit or as contiguous units for the purpose of sale, lease or
financing whether immediate or future. Property shall be considered as
contiguous units even if parcels are separated by roads, streets, utility
easements or railroad right-of-way. "Subdivision" includes a condominium
project as defined in Section 1350 of the Civil Code of the State of California
or community apartment project as defined in Section 11004 of the State
Business and Professions Code. Any conveyance of land to a governmental agency,
public entity or public utility shall not be considered a division of land for
purposes of computing the number of parcels.
9-6-2.51: SUPERINTENDENT OF PUBLIC WORKS:
"Superintendent of Public Works" means the Superintendent of Public Works for
the City appointed by the City Council.
9-6-2.52: TEMPORARY TURN AROUND:
"Temporary turn around" means paved area for turning vehicles at the end of a
dead-end road, which is constructed either within the dedicated right of way or
upon a temporary easement, to be obliterated when said road is extended. (Ord.
779, 10-17-77)
9-6-2.53: TENTATIVE MAP:
"Tentative map" is the map which is required to be presented to the secretary
of the Planning Commission in order to officially commence the process of
dividing land according to the requirements of this Code. It shall conform with
the requirements of Section
 9-6-6.00. (Ord. 779, 10-17-77)
9-6-2.54: TENTATIVE PARCEL MAP:
"Tentative parcel map" means the tentative map for a division of land defined
in subsection
9-6-8.01(B) which is required to be presented to the secretary of the Planning
Commission in order to officially commence the process of dividing land
according to the requirements of this Code. It shall conform with the
requirements of Section
9-6-8.00. (Ord. 779, 10-17-77)
9-6-2.545: VESTING TENTATIVE MAP:
"Vesting tentative map" shall mean a map which meets the requirements described
in Section
9-6-6.00 of the Selma Municipal Code and has conspicuously printed on its face
the words "Vesting Tentative Tract Map". (Ord. 94-7, 6-6-94)
9-6-2.55: WATERCOURSE:
"Watercourse" means a strip of land over which water flows, having a definite
bed, bank and channel where in the water need not flow continually but usually
flows in a particular direction. (Ord. 779, 10-17-77)
9-6-2.56: ZONE DISTRICT:
"Zone district" means the district established by the Zoning Ordinance 1
. (Ord. 779, 10-17-77)
 
Notes
1 1. See Title XI of this Code.
9-6-3.00: CONFORMANCE TO ZONING ORDINANCE AND PLANS:
9-6-3.01: GENERAL PLAN:
The preparation and evaluation of a subdivision map shall be in conformity with
the principles and standards of the General Plan and elements thereof with
respect to population densities and distribution, and the type and extent of
roads, highways and other utilities and public facilities. (Ord. 779, 10-17-77)
9-6-3.02: ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT:
No tentative map or tentative parcel map filed pursuant to the provisions of
this Chapter shall be approved until an environmental impact analysis is
prepared, processed and considered in accordance with provisions of CEQA
Guidelines. The subdivider shall provide such additional data and information
and deposit and pay such fees as may be required for the preparation and
processing of environmental review documents. (Ord. 779, 10-17-77)
9-6-3.03: PRECISE PLANS AND PRECISE PLAN LINES:
Subdivision maps shall conform to the precise plans for streets, public areas
and other projects adopted by the City Council. (Ord. 779, 10-17-77)
9-6-3.04: ZONING ORDINANCE:
Subdivision maps shall conform to the Zoning Ordinance 1
of the City with respect to uses of land, lot sizes and dimensions, and other
applicable regulations provided, however, that where Sections 9-6-1.00 through
9-6-15.00 impose higher standards, the requirements of Sections 9-6-1.00
through 9-6-15.00 shall prevail. When a proposed use or development of land
requires a zoning reclassification, conditional use permit or variance, the
application therefor shall be considered prior to or concurrently with the
tentative map or the tentative parcel map. (Ord. 779, 10-17-77)
 
Notes
1 1. See Title XI of this Code.
9-6-4.00: MAPS, GENERALLY:
9-6-4.01: EXAMINATION AND FIELD CHECK:
Pursuant to the provisions of the Subdivision Map, the City Engineer shall make
such detailed examination of tentative and final maps and tentative parcel maps
and parcel maps and such field check, if any, as may be necessary to enable him
to make the required certifications. (Ord. 779, 10-17-77)
9-6-4.02: REJECTION:
The City Council may reject a tentative or final map and the Planning
Commission may reject a tentative parcel map if the proposed use is prohibited
by any ordinance, statute, law or other regulation and shall deny a map if it
makes any of the following findings:
   (A)   That the proposed subdivision is not consistent with applicable
general and specific plans.
   (B)   That the design or improvement of the proposed subdivision is not
consistent with applicable general and specific plans.
   (C)   That the site is not physically suitable for the type of development.
   (D)   That the site is not physically suitable for the proposed density of
development.
   (E)   That the design of the subdivision or the proposed improvements are
likely to cause substantial environmental damage or substantially and avoidably
injure fish or wildlife or their habitat.
   (F)   That the design of the subdivision or the type of improvements is
likely to cause serious public health problems.
   (G)   That the design of the subdivision or the type of improvements will
conflict with easements, acquired by the public-at-large, for access through or
use of, property within the proposed subdivision. In this connection, the City
Council may approve a map if it finds that alternate easements for access or
for use will be provided and that these will be substantially equivalent to
ones previously acquired by the public. (Ord. 779, 10-17-77)
9-6-4.03: FILING, REQUIREMENTS FULFILLED:
   (A)   No map shall be considered as filed with the City until all of the
fees and charges required by the City as pertains to the subdivision of land
have been paid and an environmental impact statement has been prepared and
accepted if required by the City, and all applicable requirements of Sections
9-6-1.00 through 9-6-15.00 of this Chapter have been fulfilled or an
application for an exception or for appropriate zoning has been filed for
concurrent consideration.
   (B)   A final map or parcel map shall not be considered as filed until all
fees, bonds and deposits have been made, all corrections have been made as
requested by the City Engineer to the maps and improvement plans, if any, and
the property has been annexed to the City and to any service areas or districts
other than the City which are to provide necessary services. (Ord. 779, 10-17-
77)
9-6-5.00: PRELIMINARY MAPS:
9-6-5.01: FILING, OPTIONAL:
   (A)   Prior to the filing of a tentative map or tentative parcel map, a
subdivider may submit preliminary maps, plans and other information concerning
a proposed or contemplated development to the secretary of the Planning
Commission. Within thirty (30) days the secretary of the Planning Commission
shall hold a conference with the subdivider and make recommendations as shall
seem proper. The secretary of the Planning Commission shall recommend
consultation by the subdivider with the appropriate public or private agencies.
   (B)   All such recommendations are preliminary only and shall not be binding
upon the City in any manner.
This is an optional procedure which may be elected by the subdivider and is not
required by the Ordinance codified herein. (Ord. 779, 10-17-77)
9-6-6.00: TENTATIVE MAPS:
9-6-6.01: FILING:
Tentative tract maps and vesting tentative tract maps shall be processed in
accordance with the California Environmental Quality Act, the Subdivision Map
Act 1
, State planning law and applicable local regulations.
   (A)   Any person desiring to subdivide land or combine land, in other than a
reversion to acreage, shall apply with the Planning Commission for a tentative
tract map, vesting tentative tract map or tentative parcel map in accordance
with this Title and the California Subdivision Map Act.
   (B)   In accordance with the California Environmental Quality Act and this
Title, the secretary to the Planning Commission shall determine in writing
whether such application is complete and accepted for processing. The
Secretary, upon making the determination, shall specify those items necessary
to complete the application and immediately transmit the determination to the
applicant. The secretary may in the course of processing the application,
require the applicant to clarify, amplify, correct or otherwise supplement the
information required for the application. (Ord. 94-7, 6-6-94)
 
Notes
1 1. Gov. C., sections 66410 et seq.
9-6-6.02: FEES:
The City Council shall set the fees for processing a tentative tract map and
vesting tentative tract map at a level sufficient to recover the costs
reasonably incurred by the processing of such map. All fees shall be due and
payable at the time of submittal of the required applications. (Ord. 94-7, 6-6-
94)
9-6-6.03: CONTENT AND FORM OF TENTATIVE AND VESTING TENTATIVE TRACT MAPS:
The content and form of tentative and vesting tentative tract maps shall
contain clear, concise, legible and accurate information, and be governed by
the provisions of this Section and prepared in accordance with the following
criteria:
   (A)   Format and Graphic Representation:
      1.   Tentative and vesting tentative tract maps shall be a minimum of
eighteen inches by twenty four inches (18" x 24") and a maximum of twenty four
inches by thirty six inches (24" x 36"). More than one sheet may be used if
necessary. The secretary to the Planning Commission may accept a larger size if
the subdivision size or configuration requires a larger map for clarity.
      2.   All maps submitted shall be folded to a size of approximately eight
inches by eleven inches (8" x 11") in a way such that the tract number is
clearly visible.
      3.   Each map shall be drawn to an engineer's scale at a scale sufficient
to show the details of the map clearly.
      4.   A north arrow, the scale and date of map preparation shall be shown
on the map. All subsequent revisions and the date they were made shall be
clearly noted on the map.
      5.   Lines and features shall be represented on the map as follows:
         (a)   Tract boundary; heavy double width solid line.
         (b)   Proposed lot and right-of-way lines; heavy solid line.
         (c)   Contours with elevations denoted, existing lot lines, existing
features such as structures, curbs; light solid lines.
         (d)   Proposed lots not a part of the subdivision and easements; light
dashed lines. Easements shall be labeled as to intended use, whether existing
or proposed, and whether the easement will remain or be removed.
         (e)   Water lines, sewers, and storm drains; heavy dashed lines.
Utilities shall be labeled as to intended use, whether existing or proposed,
and whether the easement will remain or be removed.
         (f)   Direction of storm water flow; light arrows.
   (B)   Map Identification:
      1.   The tract number as obtained from the Fresno County Recorder shall
be prominently shown on the map.
      2.   The map shall be conspicuously titled as either a tentative tract
map or vesting tentative tract map. If the tentative tract map is for a
condominium, planned unit development or stock cooperative, or a conversion
thereto, this shall be shown as part of the title of the tentative tract map.
      3.   A vicinity map shall be provided on the map which clearly shows the
proposed subdivision boundary with respect to the nearest major east-west and
north-south streets.
      4.   The tentative map shall state the name, address and phone numbers of
the following persons:
         (a)   All record owners of the property proposed for subdivision.
         (b)   Subdivider.
         (c)   Subdivider's authorized agent, if other than the subdivider.
         (d)   Engineer, land surveyor or other person responsible for map
preparation.
   (C)   Subdivision Boundary:
      1.   Subdivision boundary lines shall be consistent with one or more
contiguous units of land as shown on the latest Fresno County assessment roll,
as provided by section 66424 of the California Government Code.
      2.   Subdivision boundary lines shall be consistent with one or more lots
of record and/or with one or more lots created lawfully in accordance with
State law and this Code, except as provided in subsection (C)3 below.
      3.   Where existing lots of record or otherwise lawfully created lots are
only partly included within the subdivision boundary, the entire boundary of
such parcel shall be shown on the subdivision map.
      4.   Section lines and section corners shall be referenced on the map.
   (D)   Subdivision Information:
      1.   Sufficient elevations or contours shall be shown on the map to
determine the general slope of the land and the high and low points thereof.
      2.   Proposed lots shall be drawn to scale, numbered, dimensioned and
have their area shown.
      3.   Lots which comply with the zone district standards, but which are
not proposed for development, may be designated as outlots or remainders, with
an explanation of their future use or nonuse.
      4.   Lots which are proposed to be dedicated for public purposes shall be
identified as outlots and be given an alphabetical identification.
      5.   The location, center line, width and names of all existing and
proposed streets, alleys, highways and other access easements shall be shown on
the map. The radius of all curves shall be indicated on the map. If there is
any proposed change in the disposition of the existing rights of way, these
shall be shown on the map.
      6.   The location and widths of existing and proposed easements for
drainage, sanitary sewer, water lines, public utilities, irrigation facilities
and other purposes shall be shown on the map.
      7.   All existing aboveground uses or structures, such as but not limited
to buildings, water wells, power lines and poles, and towers shall be shown on
the map. The final disposition of these features shall also be shown on the
map.
      8.   All existing underground uses or structures, such as but not limited
to wells, cesspools, sewers, culverts, storm drains and dump sites shall be
shown on the map. The final disposition of these features shall also be shown
on the map.
      9.   The location, width, depth and final disposition of all existing and
proposed canals or private ditches shall be shown on the map.
      10.   Trees shall be shown on the map in the following manner:
         (a)   The location and type of existing trees present in the existing
or proposed right of way shall be shown on the map.
         (b)   The location, approximate diameter and final disposition of all
trees with a diameter greater than or equal to twelve inches (12").
         (c)   A statement shall be included on the map which states the number
of trees within the subdivision which are proposed to be removed.
      11.   Proposed main line extensions or relocations of public utilities,
storm drains, irrigation canals or similar features shall be shown on the map.
Major required facilities, such as lift stations and pump stations, shall also
be shown on the map.
      12.   Proposed areas for parks, ponding basins, public facilities, open
space, school sites and similar features shall be shown on the map as required.
      13.   Maps which contain property within two hundred feet (200') of an
existing or planned railroad, highway, airport or similar noise generating
source shall indicate the method of noise reduction such that the project will
be consistent with the General Plan Noise Element.
      14.   The following features shall be shown accurately to a distance of
fifty feet (50') from the proposed subdivision:
         (a)   Zoning and General Plan land use designation.
         (b)   Parcel boundary lines.
         (c)   Easements which may affect the proposed subdivision.
         (d)   Location and widths of existing rights of way.
         (e)   Location and width of existing improvements, including but not
limited to, sewer, water, storm lines, c   oncrete curb and gutter, sidewalk,
driveways, pavement, and the location of street lights and signals.
         (f)   Existing land use.
         (g)   Grade differences of one foot (1') or more.
      15.   In subdivisions which are reasonably expected to be resubdivided at
some future date, potential street and lot alignments shall be shown on the
map.
      16.   Any remainder parcels shall be shown on the map in their entirety.
      17.   All proposed phase lines shall be shown on the map.
      18.   The map shall contain the following information:
         (a)   Present zone district and General Plan land use designation.
         (b)   Proposed zone district and General Plan land use designation.
         (c)   Ultimate number of dwelling units to be constructed for
residential subdivisions.
         (d)   Existing use of the property.
         (e)   Proposed use of the property.
         (f)   Gross and net site acreage.
         (g)   Source of the water supply.
         (h)   Source of sewage disposal.
         (i)   All public utilities to be provided to the site.
         (j)   For residential projects, a statement indicating how the use of
passive natural heating and cooling opportunities are accommodated.
         (k)   A statement that all public improvements shall be constructed in
accordance with City standards.
      19.   A preliminary grading plan shall be provided for all tentative
tracts in such number as is specified by the secretary to the Planning
Commission.
      20.   A preliminary title report prepared within six (6) months of the
date of application shall be submitted.
      21.   The following additional information shall be submitted with all
vesting tentative tract applications:
         (a)   A detailed grading plan and all fees required for review of the
plan shall accompany a vesting tentative tract map application.
         (b)   A geotechnical report for the subject property.
         (c)   The proposed foot print of buildings or the minimum and maximum
building coverage in square feet for each lot shall be shown or stated on the
vesting tentative tract map.
   (E)   Content and Form of Related Applications:
      1.   Related Applications: Applications related to a tentative or vesting
tentative tract map that are submitted prior to or concurrent with the map
shall contain clear, concise, legible and accurate information. Such
applications may include, but are not limited to the following:
         (a)   Environmental assessment application.
         (b)   General Plan amendment application.
         (c)   Zone change application.
         (d)   Conditional use permit application.
         (e)   Site plan review application.
         (f)   Annexation request.
      2.   Internal Consistency of Applications:
         (a)   Information presented in each application shall be consistent
with information presented in related applications and on the map.
         (b)   All site plans, details, drawings and other graphic materials
shall be consistent with information presented in related applications and on
the map.
         (c)   An application to rezone a property, within the boundaries of a
tentative or vesting tentative tract map, shall have boundaries consistent with
the tentative or vesting tentative tract map. (Ord. 94-7, 6-6-94)
9-6-6.04: CALIFORNIA ENVIRONMENTAL QUALITY ACT CONSISTENCY:
All tentative and vesting tentative tract maps shall be reviewed for potential
impacts on the environment in accordance with the California Environmental
Quality Act (California Public Resources Code section 21000 et seq.) and any
amendments which may occur to that Act subsequent to adoption of this Section.
(Ord. 94-7, 6-6-94)
9-6-6.05: REVIEW COMMITTEE:
The secretary to the Planning Commission, Superintendent of Public Works, City
Building Official, City Engineer and Fire Chief shall be deemed to be and are
empowered to act as the Subdivision Review Committee. The secretary to the
Planning Commission shall serve as the Committee chairperson and shall convene
the Subdivision Review Committee to formulate recommendations and requirements
on the design and improvements of subdivisions. The Subdivision Review
Committee shall, through the secretary of the Planning Commission, report its
recommendations in the form of a staff report to the Planning Commission and
City Council. The applicant shall be notified of the Committee's
recommendations seventy two (72) hours in advance of any hearing or action on a
tentative or vesting tentative tract map. (Ord. 94-7, 6-6-94)
9-6-6.06: PLANNING COMMISSION CONSIDERATION:
   (A)   The Planning Commission shall consider all tentative maps at public
meetings scheduled in accordance with applicable State and local laws. The
Planning Commission shall take action by resolution to recommend approval,
conditional approval or denial of the tentative map to the City Council. If a
legal quorum can not be attained, the Planning Commission shall forward the map
to the City Council without a recommendation. A majority of the voting members
present constituting a quorum shall be required to pass a resolution. A tie
vote shall be considered a technical denial without prejudice.
   (B)   A public hearing for all tentative maps shall be required. The public
hearing shall be noticed in accordance with State law and the following:
      1.   The notice of the meeting shall indicate the time and place of the
hearing and include a general description of the tentative map, its approximate
location and initial environmental determination.
      2.   The notice shall be given in accordance with the California
Environmental Quality Act, but in no case shall the project be noticed less
than ten (10) days in advance of the public hearing. Notice shall be given in
at least two (2) of the three (3) following methods:
         (a)   The notice shall be published at least once in a newspaper of
general circulation, published and circulated in the City.
         (b)   The notice shall be given by mail or delivery to all persons,
including businesses, corporations, or other public or private entities as
shown on the latest equalized assessment roll as owning real property within
three hundred feet (300') of the property which is the subject of the tentative
map.
         (c)   The property shall be posted in a manner such that it is visible
to passing vehicular and pedestrian traffic. A minimum of one notice per three
hundred feet (300') of street frontage shall be provided.
      3.   The Planning Commission may continue an item to a specific time,
date and place without the need for further noticing, provided that the time,
date and place are publicly announced by the presiding officer. (Ord. 94-7, 6-
6-94)
9-6-6.07: AUTOMATIC RECOMMENDATION OF APPROVAL:
If the Planning Commission takes no action on a proposed subdivision within
fifty (50) days of closing the public hearing or extensions as agreed to by the
applicant in writing, then the map shall be recommended for approval in so far
as it complies with State and local law. The specified time limit shall begin
when the project is accepted and deemed complete for processing if
environmental documents have been certified or approved in accordance with
section 21000 et seq. of the Public Resources Code. If environmental documents
have not been certified or approved, then the time limit shall begin when the
appropriate environmental documents have been certified or approved. It shall
be the duty of the secretary to the Planning Commission to certify and transmit
the approval to the City Council. (Ord. 95-2, 3-6-95)
9-6-6.08: CITY COUNCIL CONSIDERATION:
   (A)   The City Council shall consider all tentative maps at public meetings
scheduled in accordance with applicable State and local laws. The City Council
shall take action by resolution to approve, conditionally approve or deny the
proposed tentative map. The action of the City Council shall be final. A tie
vote shall be considered a technical denial without prejudice.
   (B)   A public hearing for all tentative maps shall be required. The public
hearing shall be noticed in accordance with State law and the following:
      1.   The notice of the meeting shall indicate the time and place of the
hearing and include a general description of the tentative map, its approximate
location and initial environmental determination.
      2.   The notice shall be given in accordance with the California
Environmental Quality Act, but in no case shall the project be noticed less
than ten (10) days in advance of the public hearing. Notice shall be given in
at least two (2) of the three (3) following methods:
         (a)   The notice shall be published at least once in a newspaper of
general circulation, published and circulated in the City.
         (b)   The notice shall be given by mail or delivery to all persons,
including businesses, corporations or other public or private entities as shown
on the latest equalized assessment roll as owning real property within three
hundred feet (300') of the property which is the subject of the tentative map.
         (c)   The property shall be posted in a manner such that it is visible
to passing vehicular and pedestrian traffic. A minimum of one notice per three
hundred feet (300') of street frontage shall be provided.
      3.   The City Council may continue an item to a specific time, date and
place without the need for further noticing, provided that the time, date and
place are publicly announced by the presiding officer. (Ord. 94-7, 6-6-94)
9-6-6.09: AUTOMATIC APPROVAL:
If the City Council takes no action on a proposed subdivision within thirty
(30) days of closing the public hearing or extensions as agreed to by the
applicant in writing, then the map shall be approved in so far as it complies
with State and local law. Except that, the specified time period shall commence
only after certification of the environmental impact report, adoption of a
negative declaration or a determination by the City Council that the project is
exempt from the requirements of division 13 (commencing with section 21000) of
the Public Resources Code. It shall be the duty of the City Clerk to certify
such approval. (Ord. 95-2, 3-6-95)
9-6-6.10: TERMINATION OR EXTENSION PROCEEDINGS:
   (A)   Failure to record a final map within twenty four (24) months from the
date of approval or conditional approval of the tentative map, or within any
extension of time thereof granted by the City Council, shall terminate all
proceedings. Before a final map may thereafter be recorded, a new tentative map
shall be required.
   (B)   The applicant or successor in interest to an approved tentative map
may request an extension of twelve (12) months, provided such extension does
not extend the life of the map in excess of a total of five (5) years,
including the initial approval. The City Council shall consider all extension
requests. To be considered the request shall be submitted to the Director of
the Community Development Department not less than forty five (45) days before
the expiration of the tentative map. Such request shall be accompanied by all
required forms, materials and fees. (Ord. 94-7, 6-6-94)
9-6-6.11: RIGHTS CONFERRED BY A VESTING TENTATIVE MAP:
   (A)   The approval or conditional approval of a vesting tentative map shall
confer a vested right to proceed with development in substantial compliance
with the ordinances, written policies and standards as described in the
California Subdivision Map Act 1
.
   (B)   Notwithstanding subsection (A) above, a permit, approval, extension,
or entitlement may be made conditional or denied if any of the following are
determined to exist:
      1.   A failure to do so would place the residents of the subdivision or
immediate community, or both, in a condition dangerous to their health or
safety, or both.
      2.   The conditions or denial are required in order to comply with State
or Federal law.
   (C)   The rights conferred by this Section shall expire if a final map is
not recorded prior to the expiration of the vesting tentative map as provided
in Section
9-6-7.00 of this Title. If the final map is recorded these rights shall last
for the following periods of time:
      1.   An initial period of twenty four (24) months. Where several final
maps are recorded on various phases of a project covered by a single vesting
tentative map, this initial time period shall begin for each phase when the
final map is recorded.
      2.   The initial time period set forth in subsection (C)1 above, shall be
automatically extended by any time used for processing a complete application
for a grading permit, if such review exceeds thirty (30) days from the time a
complete application is submitted.
      3.   A subdivider may apply for a one year time extension within sixty
(60) days of the expiration of the initial time period set forth in subsection
(C)1 above. If the extension request is denied the subdivider may appeal that
denial to the City Council if the appeal is filed within ten (10) days of the
denial.
      4.   If the subdivider submits a complete application for a building
permit for a subdivided lot, the period of time specified in this subsection
(C) and the rights referred to herein, shall continue until the expiration of
the permit and any extensions thereof. (Ord. 94-7, 6-6-94)
 
Notes
1 1. Gov. C., section 66498.1.
9-6-7.00: FINAL MAPS:
9-6-7.01: FILING, TIME LIMIT:
   (A)   Within the prescribed time for filing the final map, as approved by
the City Council, the subdivider may cause the subdivision or any part thereof
to be accurately surveyed and a final map to be prepared and filed. The final
map shall conform to the tentative map, as approved, and shall comply with all
provisions of Section 1.00 through 15.00. (Ord. 848, 11-15-82)
   (B)   The final map shall be filed with the City Clerk not less than sixty
(60) days prior to the date by which the map must be recorded in order to
permit the actions by the City Engineer, the City Council and the County Clerk-
Recorder as required by Sections 1.00 through 15.00 and the Subdivision Map
Act.
   (C)   See Section 9-6-6.17 for failure to record a final map within the
specified time limits.
9-6-7.02: FILING, PROCEDURE:
   (A)   When Filed. The final map may be filed when it is completed and all
required improvement plans and certificates except the approval certificate of
the City Council has been signed and acknowledged where necessary.
   (B)   With Whom Filed. The filing shall be with the City Clerk.
   (C)   Documents Filed.
      1.   The original final map and seven (7) copies shall be filed.
      2.   Evidence of title, acceptable to the County Clerk-Recorder, shall be
secured from a title company indicating that, as shown by the public records,
the parties whose signatures appear on the map and consent to the recordation
of the map are all the parties having a record title interest in the land being
subdivided whose signatures are required by the Subdivision Map Act.
      3.   Memorandum for the City Engineer containing the following data shall
accompany the map:
         (a)   The total area of the tract submitted,
         (b)   The total area in roads and the total lineal length of roads,
         (c)   The total area in lots,
         (d)   The total number of lots,
         (e)   The area in parks, school sites or other lands offered for
dedication or reserved for future public or quasi-public uses,
         (f)   The proposed use of the lots,
         (g)   Total areas for each of the proposed uses.
      4.   Two (2) copies of the protective covenants, if any, that are to be
recorded shall accompany the map.
      5.   Improvement plans shall be submitted showing all of the improvements
required herein, and all others proposed to be installed by the subdivider, in,
on, over or under any roadway, right-of-way, easement or parcel of land
dedicated by the map.
      6.   All notes, sheets and drawings showing traverse closure and the
computation of all distances, angles and courses shown on the final map and
ties to existing and proposed monuments and adjacent subdivisions shall
accompany the map when required by the City Engineer.
      7.   All fees as hereinafter specified shall be paid.
      8.   A statement from the County Treasurer-Tax Collector shall be secured
showing that there are no liens against the subdivision or any part thereof for
unpaid taxes or special assessments collected as taxes, except taxes or special
assessments not yet payable.
      9.   A statement shall be secured from the County Auditor-Controller
giving his estimate of the amount of taxes and assessments which are a lien but
which are not payable.
      10.   The necessary agreements or contracts, bonds and deposits as
hereinafter specified shall accompany to allow the recordation of the map.
9-6-7.03: PRELIMINARY SOIL REPORT:
   (A)   A preliminary soil report shall be prepared by a civil engineer who is
registered by the State, based upon test borings or excavations unless waived
as hereinafter provided. Said borings or excavations shall be taken at specific
locations determined by the City Engineer or at random locations if no specific
locations are established. Not less than one test shall be made for every forty
(40) lots or ten (10) acres, whichever represents the lesser area, and in no
case shall there be no less than two (2) borings for each subdivision. The City
Engineer may require additional tests when he determines the soil conditions
within the subdivision are so varied that additional tests will be needed. If
the City Engineer has knowledge of the soil qualities of the subdivision, he
may waive some or all of the borings. The borings shall be at least ten feet
(10') in depth. The depth of borings shall be adjusted to represent soil
profiles after any proposed lot gradings and shall take into consideration the
soil composition after excavations and embankments have been completed. The
preliminary soil report shall contain the following information:
      1.   The maximum amount of excavation and fill to be expected;
      2.   The location of foundations in relation to excavations and fills;
      3.   The expansive qualities of the soils encountered where foundations
are to be placed in and shall state the percentage of swell of a soil section
taken from a representative undisturbed core sample under a load of six hundred
twenty five (625) pounds per square foot, laterally restrained, saturated and
allowed to swell. If footings are to be placed in fills, the expansive tests
shall be performed under a load of six hundred twenty five (625) pounds per
square foot, laterally restrained and compacted to ninety percent (90%) of
maximum density with the moisture content below the shrinkage limit. The
percentage of expansion shall be recorded after twenty four (24) hours. If the
swell of the sample exceeds three percent (3%) it shall be presumed that the
soil involved is critically expansive and a soil investigation as required in
subsection (B) below will be required.
      4.   Recommended bearing values for the soils;
      5.   Whether other soil problems exist which, if not corrected, could
lead to structural defects;
      6.   Copies of the test boring analysis. (Water well drilling logs shall
not be substituted.)
   (B)   Soil Investigations. If the preliminary soil report indicates the
presence of critically expansive soils, or other soils or fills would be of
such depth that foundations will not rest on original ground, a soil
investigation shall be prepared for each lot in the subdivision by a civil
engineer who is registered by the State. The soil investigation report shall
include the following:
      1.   The physical properties of subsurface formations;
      2.   The composition of subsurface soil and rock and ground water
conditions;
      3.   The stability of anticipated cut or fill slopes;
      4.   The general type of site grading;
      5.   Recommendations on corrective actions which are likely to prevent
structural damage to each dwelling to be constructed. These recommendations may
include the requirement that the corrective work must be under the supervision
of a registered civil engineer.
The soil investigation shall be reviewed by the City Engineer who shall approve
the investigation if he determines that the recommended action is likely to
prevent structural damage to each dwelling to be constructed.
   (C)   Waiver of Soil Report. The City Engineer may waive the preliminary
soil report if he has knowledge of the soil qualities within the subdivision.
9-6-7.04: REVIEW BY CITY ENGINEER:
   (A)   Upon receipt of the final map, the City Clerk shall refer five (5)
copies of the map, accompanied by the memorandum for the City Engineer and one
copy of protective covenants, to the City Engineer for review and report.
   (B)   The City Engineer shall refer all easements for public utilities,
including anchorage easements, to the proper public utility for review and
recommendation.
   (C)   The City Engineer shall check and determine the correctness of
surveying data, plans, profiles and specifications of improvements,
certificates of dedication, acceptances of dedications and acknowledgements,
and such other matters as require checking to insure compliance with Sections
1.00 through 15.00.
   (D)   If the final map and all accompanying materials are in the correct
form prescribed by Sections 1.00 through 15.00, and the matters shown thereon
are sufficient, their correctness shall be certified on the map by the City
Engineer by his signature within twenty (20) days of receipt.
   (E)   The City Engineer shall thereupon transmit said map together with said
other materials to the City Clerk for presentation to the City Council.
9-6-7.05: CITY COUNCIL, DECISION:
   (A)   Approval of Map.
      1.   At its next regular or adjourned meeting after the filing of a final
map with the Clerk, the City Council shall consider said map to determine if it
is in conformity with all the requirements of Sections 1.00 through 15.00.
      2.   The City Council shall at that time accept or reject any or all
offers of dedication and shall, as a condition precedent to the acceptance of
any roads or easements, require that the subdivider agree to improve the roads
and easements. If at the time the final map is approved, any streets, paths,
alleys or storm drainage easements are rejected, the offer of dedication shall
remain open and the City Council may by resolution at any later date, and
without further action by the subdivider, rescind its action and accept and
open the streets, paths, alleys or storm drainage easements for public use,
which acceptance shall be recorded in the office of the County Recorder.
      3.   Upon approval of the map by the City Council by resolution the City
Clerk shall present the map duly certified to the County Clerk-Recorder for
recordation.
   (B)   Disapproval of Map:
      1.   If the City Council determines either that the map is not in
conformity with the requirements of Sections 1.00 through 15.00, or the
approved tentative map, or that the proposed improvements do not meet City
improvement standards, the City Council shall by resolution disapprove such
final map, specifying its reason or reasons therefor, and the City Clerk shall,
in writing, advise the subdivider of such disapproval and the reason or reasons
therefor.
      2.   The subdivider may file a new final map with the City Clerk altered
to conform to all the requirements of Sections 1.00 through 15.00.
9-6-7.06: PREPARATION, LICENSED PERSONNEL:
The final map shall be made by a registered civil engineer or licensed land
surveyor who shall set monuments in conformity with monument standards so that
the survey is readily retraceable. All data, profiles and other engineering
drawings submitted with the final map shall be prepared and signed by a
registered civil engineer.
9-6-7.07: PREPARATION, PRINTING, SIZE:
   (A)   The final map shall be legibly drawn, printed or reproduced by a
process guaranteeing a permanent record in black on tracing cloth or polyester
base film, including affidavits, certificates and acknowledgements, except that
such affidavits, certificates and acknowledgements may be legibly stamped or
printed upon the map with opaque ink. Signatures shall be in opaque black ink.
If ink is used on polyester base film the ink surface shall be coated with a
suitable substance to assure permanent legibility.
   (B)   The size of each sheet of the map shall be eighteen inches by twenty
six inches (18" x 26"). A line shall be drawn around each sheet leaving an
entirely blank margin of one inch (1").
9-6-7.08: PREPARATION, SCALE, NUMBERING:
The scale of the map shall be one inch equals one hundred feet (1" = 100');
except that subdivisions with lots of two and one-half (2½) acres or greater
may use a scale of one inch equals two hundred feet (1" = 200'), or the City
Engineer may require one inch equals fifty feet (1" = 50') if complexity of
detail so warrants.
When the final map consists of more than two (2) sheets a key map drawn to a
scale of one inch equals one thousand feet (1" = 1,000') shall be placed on
sheet number one indicating the relationship among all sheets.
The particular number of each sheet and the total number of sheets comprising
the map shall be stated on each of the sheets and its relation to each
adjoining sheet shall be clearly shown.
9-6-7.09: TITLE:
The title of each final map shall consist of a tract number conspicuously
placed at the top of the sheet followed by the words "consisting of .....
sheets" (showing the number thereof) followed by the words "In the City of
Selma".
9-6-7.10: PROPERTY DESCRIPTION:
Below the title shall appear a description of all the property being
subdivided, by reference to such map or maps of the property shown thereon as
previously recorded or filed in the County Clerk-Recorder's office or
previously filed with the County Clerk-Recorder pursuant to a final judgment in
any action in partition, or previously filed in the office of the County Clerk-
Recorder under authority of Chapter 3, Part 2 of Division 4 of the Business and
Professions Code, or by reference to the plat of any United States survey.
Each reference in such description to any tract or subdivision, shall be
spelled out and worded identically with the original records and must show a
complete reference to the book and page of records of the County Clerk-
Recorder. The description shall also include reference to any abandonment with
the date, book and page of records of the County Clerk-Recorder.
9-6-7.11: SUBDIVISION BOUNDARY:
The boundary line of a subdivision shall be indicated on the final map by
approximately one-sixteenth inch (1/16") wide border outside such boundary line
and shall not obliterate any line, figure or other data appearing on the map.
All lines shown on the map which do not constitute a part of the subdivision
itself shall be clearly distinguishable from those lines which are a part of
the subdivision.
9-6-7.12: CERTIFICATES AND ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS:
Certificates and acknowledgements as are required by Sections 1.00 through
15.00 and the Subdivision Map Act shall appear on the title sheet of the final
map, unless their omission is permitted in the manner provided by the
Subdivision Map Act.
When a soil report has been prepared this fact shall be noted on the final map
as specified in Section 11568 of the Subdivision Map Act.
9-6-7.13: LOTS AND PARCELS DESIGNATED:
A lot shall be shown in its entirety on one sheet:
   (A)   Designation. The final map shall particularly define, delineate and
designate all lots intended to be reserved for private purposes, all parcels
offered for dedication for any purpose and any private roads with all
dimensions, boundaries and courses clearly shown and defined in every case.
Parcels offered for dedication other than for roads, alleys, pedestrian
walkways, water lots or easements shall be designated by number.
   (B)   Lot Numbers. The lots shall be numbered consecutively beginning with
the number "1" and shall continue without omission or duplication throughout
the entire tract.
   (C)   Area Designation. Each lot containing an area of one acre or more
shall have designated thereon the net acreage of such lot shown not less
accurately than to the nearest one-hundredth (1/100) of an acre.
9-6-7.14: BEARINGS, LENGTH OF LINES, CURVE DATA:
   (A)   The bearing and length of each lot line, block and boundary line shall
be shown on the final map, provided that, when bearings or lengths of lot lines
in any series of lots are the same such bearings or lengths may be omitted from
each interior parallel lot line of such series. Each required bearing and
length shall be shown in full and no ditto mark or other designation of
repetition shall be used.
   (B)   The length, the radius, the total central angle of each curve and the
central angle and length of each segment within each lot shall be shown
thereon.
   (C)   The distances and bearings on the side lines of lots which are cut by
easements shall be so arrowed or shown as to indicate clearly the actual length
of each lot line.
9-6-7.15: HIGHWAYS, ROADS AND PUBLIC USE AREAS:
   (A)   Data Required:
      1.   For each highway and road the following shall be shown:
         (a)   Width of existing right-of-way;
         (b)   Width of portion to be dedicated, if any;
         (c)   Center line with right-of-way width on each side;
         (d)   Center line data as follows:
            i.   Distance between center lines of streets and points of
tangency,
            ii.   Length of each tangent,
            iii.   Radius,
            iv.   Central angle,
            v.   Length of each curve.
      2.   For each alley and pedestrian walkway the following shall be shown:
         (a)   Total right-of-way width;
         (b)   Bearings and distances as needed.
      3.   For each water lot and other parcel offered for public or private
use the following shall be shown:
         (a)   The intended use;
         (b)   Dimensions of parcel (with bearings and distances as needed).
   (B)   Non-Access Line. Non-access lines shall be shown on the final map. The
certificate shall indicate therein where direct access rights are being
relinquished. (Ord. 779, 10-17-77)
   (C)   Road Names: Each road shown on the final map shall have a name. The
road name shall be subject to approval by the City Council and subject to the
following:
      1.   Road names in the City shall be simply spelled, and euphonic if
possible.
      2.   No duplicate, similar spellings, or similar sounding names of roads
shall be allowed.
      3.   Family names (given and last) of historical significance to the
community (not in conflict herewith) shall be the only names of persons for
consideration. Such family name or other name of historical significance shall
be referred to a recognized authority on local history (to be appointed by the
City Council) for a review and report on the historical significance of the
name.
      4.   Only one road name shall be used on any single alignment. Names on
present road alignments whether in the City or County, shall be continued when
new sections of such roads are developed. A single alignment is defined as one
which does not deviate from a straight line by more than one hundred twenty
five feet (125').
      5.   Cul-de-sacs with a neck of less than fifty feet (50') (measured from
right-of-way line to beginning of curve) shall bear the name of the main road.
Any cul-de-sac with a neck beyond said fifty feet (50') shall be named
according to provisions of this policy for new roads.
      6.   A road making a ninety degree (90°) turn or greater shall bear a
separate name. Minor jogs in which the road continues in substantially the same
direction shall be excepted from this provision.
      7.   In the determination of the suffixes of public roads:
         (a)   The through roads continuing the alignment of Fresno County
roads from the rural area shall be designated as "Avenue".
         (b)   All other roads shall be designated as "Street". The designation
"Court", "Lane", "Way", or "Circle" shall be applied only on cul-de-sacs,
meandering roads, or very short roads not sharing the alignment with another
road and not in conflict with other provisions of this Section.
         (c)   Special action of the City Council shall be required for a road
to be designated "Boulevard" except for Golden State Boulevard and Nelson
Boulevard.
      8.   Patterns of road names on neighboring alignments are encouraged.
      9.   No further development of the alphabet roads north of Oak Street
alignment shall be permitted.
      10.   The words "Avenue", "Boulevard", "Place", or other designation of
any such road or way, shall be spelled out in full on the final map and have a
proper indication of north, south, east or west as a prefix thereto. (Ord. 813,
5-19-80)
   (D)   Dedication. If a highway, road, alley, pedestrian walkway, water lot
or other parcel intended for public use is being dedicated by a final map it
shall be properly designated on the map and set out in the owner's certificate
of dedication on the map.
   (E)   Private Roads. The same data shall be shown for private roads to
define their boundaries as is required for public roads in subsection (A) of
this Section, and also sufficient mathematical data to show clearly the portion
of each lot within such road. Private roads shall be designated by name and
shall have inserted within the limits thereof the words "Not a Public Road" and
shall be shown on the map by heavy dashed lines.
   (F)   Private Roads, Dedication. If a road is approved by the City Council
as a private road it shall be dedicated for the private use of the lot owners
which it is intended to serve. Where the approved private road shall be
intended to serve a lot or lots, each consisting of less than twenty (20)
acres, that road shall be offered for dedication for public use but rejected at
the time of the approval of the final map.
9-6-7.16: EASEMENTS:
   (A)   Location, Width and Ties. The final map shall show the width, the side
lines or center lines and sufficient ties to definitely locate each easement to
which the lots in the subdivision are subject. If the location of such easement
cannot be definitely determined, a statement shall be placed on the map
acknowledging the existence of such easement.
   (B)   Designation, Notes and Figures. Each easement shown for any canal,
ditch, storm drain, sewer or utility shall be designated by a fine dashed line
and clearly labeled and identified with all notes and figures pertaining
thereto subordinate in form and appearance to those relating to the subdivision
itself. If the easement is of record, the record reference shall be shown.
   (C)   Dedication. If an easement is being dedicated by a final map it shall
be properly set out in the owner's certificate of dedication on the map.
9-6-7.17: COUNTY OR CITY BOUNDARY LINES:
Each County or City boundary line crossing or adjoining the subdivision shall
be shown upon the final map and such line shall be clearly designated and tied
in. No lot shall be divided by a County, City, school or special district
boundary line.
9-6-7.18: SURVEY MONUMENTS:
The final map shall show the location and type of all monuments placed in
accordance with Section
 9-6-7.25.
9-6-7.19: LAND SUBJECT TO INUNDATION:
   (A)   Flood Water. If any portion of the land within the subdivision shown
on any final map is subject to inundation or flood hazard by storm waters, such
fact and portion shall be clearly shown by a prominent note on each sheet of
such final map.
   (B)   Overflow or Ponding. If any portion of such land is or will be subject
to periodic sheet overflow, or ponding of local or foreign storm water, the
City Engineer, after consulting with the design engineers, shall so inform the
State Real Estate Commissioner.
   (C)   Natural Watercourses. The location of any watercourse, channel, stream
or creek which functions as a drainageway shall be shown on the final map. In
the event said watercourse, channel, stream or creek is to be relocated, only
the new location need be shown on the final map.
9-6-7.20: ADJACENT SUBDIVISIONS:
The final map shall show the tract number (and name, if any) of abutting
subdivisions.
9-6-7.21: SUBDIVISION SHOWN IN SEPARATE UNITS:
The recordation of the final map and the construction of subdivision
improvements may, with the approval of the City Council, be performed in two
(2) or more units; however, each unit must have a separate tract number. No
bonds, deposits, payments or other security need be furnished for the deferred
unit or units until the final map for the deferred unit or units is submitted
to the City Council for approval. Final maps for all units shall be filed with
the City Council within the time limits set forth in this Title for the filing
of a final map.
9-6-7.22: PASSAGE OF TITLE:
Title to dedicated property shall pass upon its acceptance by the City Council
and recordation of the final map. The responsibility for maintenance of
improvements shall not pass to the City until the improvements have been
accepted by the City Council pursuant to Section 941 of the Streets and Highway
Code of the State.
9-6-7.23: ROAD DEDICATION REJECTION:
If at the time the final map is approved any roads are rejected, the offer of
dedication shall remain open and the City Council may, by resolution at any
later date and without further action or obligation by the subdivider, rescind
its action and accept and open the roads for public use. Such acceptance shall
be recorded in the office of the County Clerk-Recorder and the Clerk-Recorder
shall make a note of such action on the subdivision plat.
9-6-7.24: ROAD VACATION, RESUBDIVISION:
If a resubdivision of an existing subdivision proposes to realign roads and
other easements any previous dedication, whether accepted or rejected, shall be
summarily vacated and abandoned upon approval and recordation of the new map
and the recordation of a certified copy of the City Council's resolution
approving the map and vacating the previous roads and other easements.
9-6-7.25: SURVEY PROCEDURES:
   (A)   Accuracy. The procedure and practice of all survey work done on any
subdivision, in the preparation of a final map, shall conform to the accepted
standards of the engineering profession. The accuracy of all boundary surveys
done in connection with any subdivision shall have a precision of one in ten
thousand (10,000).
   (B)   Existing Center Lines. In the event the City Engineer, the State
Highway Engineer or the County Director of Public works has established the
center line of any street or alley in or adjoining a subdivision, the final map
shall show such center line together with reference to a field book or map
showing such center line and the monuments which determine its position. If
determined by ties, that fact shall be stated upon the final map.
   (C)   Existing Monuments. Each final map shall fully and clearly show and
identify such monuments or other evidence determining the boundaries of the
subdivision as were found on the ground, together with sufficient corners of
adjoining subdivisions, by lot and block number, tract name and place of
record, or by section, township and range, or other proper designation as may
be necessary to locate precisely the limits of the subdivision and to permit
the survey to be retraced.
   (D)   New Monuments:
      1.   The location, size and depth of all monuments placed in making the
survey shall be shown and, if any were reset by ties, that fact shall be shown.
All monuments on the exterior boundary of the subdivision, except those within
construction zones, shall be placed prior to the approval of the final map. All
interior monuments shall be set subsequent to the completion of the subdivision
improvements and a bond shall be presented by the subdivider as provided for in
Section 66596 of the Subdivision Map Act.
      2.   Monuments shall be placed and shall be of the type specified below:
         (a)   3/4" x 28") pipe, permanently and visibly marked or tagged with
the certificate number of the surveyor or civil engineer setting it, each
number preceded by the letters "L.S." or "R.C.E." respectively as the case may
be.
         (b)   
      3.   The City Engineer may allow the use of off-set monuments, properly
tied to reference monuments, when necessary due to terrain, waterways or other
monuments other than those specified in subsections (D) 1 and 2 above.
   (E)   Monuments, Replacement. Before street improvements are accepted, all
existing monuments disturbed by the placement of any improvements shall be
reset.
   (F)   Bench Marks. Bench marks shall be set at locations required by the
City Engineer. The datum for the area within the City shall be based upon datum
established by the United States Coast and Geodetic Survey Sea Level Datum
1929, as amended.
   (G)   Standard Plaque, Numbering and Location Information. Identification of
monuments and bench marks shall be through the use of a standard plaque.
Descriptions of all monuments and bench marks shall be furnished to the City
Engineer for inclusion in his records.
   (H)   California Coordinate System. All surveys required by Sections 1.00
through 15.00, or necessary to the subdivision of land, shall conform to the
California Coordinate System when required by the City Engineer. When required,
each final map shall show the California coordinate of every monument and all
California coordinates shall be used and shown on all traverse closure sheets
and other notes and ties which are required by Section 9-6-7.02.
   (I)   Mathematical Accuracy. The blocks and lots of each final map or
approved map of record shall have a mathematical accuracy of closure to one in
ten thousand (10,000). (Ord. 779, 10-17-77)
9-6-8.00: PARCEL MAPS:
9-6-8.01: GENERAL PROVISIONS AND APPLICABILITY:
   (A)   Governing Provisions: The design, improvement, and survey data for
divisions of land requiring parcel maps and/or tentative parcel maps, and the
procedure to be followed in securing official approval for said maps, shall be
governed by the provisions of the Subdivision Map Act and by the provisions of
Sections 9-6-1 through 9-6-15.
   (B)   Applicability. A parcel map shall be filed and recorded for any
subdivision for which a tentative and final map is not required by the
Subdivision Map Act, except where the requirement for a parcel map is waived as
provided by Section 9-6-1.04 (B) (6), and except for subdivisions created by
short term leases (terminable by either party on not more than thirty (30)
days' notice in writing) of a portion of an operating right of way of a
railroad corporation defined as such by Section 230 of the Public Utilities
Code; or for land conveyed to or from a governmental agency, public entity or
public utility, or to a subsidiary of a public utility for conveyance to such
public utility for rights of way; provided, however, that upon a showing made
to the Planning Commission based upon substantial evidence that public policy
necessitates such a map, this exception shall not apply.
   (C)   Merger of Contiguous Parcels:
      1.   Two (2) or more contiguous parcels or units of land which have been
created under the provisions of the Subdivision Act or City ordinance enacted
pursuant thereto or were not subject to such provisions at the time of their
creation shall not merge by virtue of the fact that such contiguous parcels or
units are held by the same owner, and no further proceeding under the
Subdivision Map act or this Chapter shall be required for the purpose of sale,
lease or financing of such contiguous parcels or units, or any of them; except
that if any one of such contiguous parcels or units held by the same owner does
not conform to standards for minimum parcel size to permit use or development
under the provisions of the Zoning Ordinance or other City ordinance and at
least one of such contiguous parcels or units is not developed with a building
for which a permit has been issued by the City Building Inspector or which was
built prior to the time such permits were required by the City, then such
parcels shall be merged only to the extent necessary to form one or more units
which conform to lot area, width and depth requirements set by the City Zoning
Ordinance, for the purposes of the Subdivision Map Act and this Chapter.
      2.   Any parcels or units of land merged prior to July 7, 1977, shall be
deemed unmerged and separate parcels except where merger is necessary to form
one or more units which conform to the area, width and depth requirements set
by the City Zoning Ordinance.
      3.   Whenever it has been determined that real property has merged
pursuant to the Subdivision Map Act or this Chapter, the secretary of the
Planning Commission shall cause to be filed for record with the County Recorder
a notice of such merger specifying the names of the record owners and
particularly describing the real property, provided that, at least thirty (30)
days prior to the recording of the notice, the owner of the parcels or units to
be affected by the merger shall be advised in writing of the intention to
record the notice and specifying a time, date and place at which the owner may
present evidence to the Planning Commission why such notice should not be
recorded.
9-6-8.02: TENTATIVE PARCEL MAPS:
   (A)   Filing. The provisions of Section 9-6-6.00 shall govern the filing of
tentative parcel maps.
   (B)   Application Form. Application for the approval of a tentative parcel
map shall be made upon the form provided by the secretary of the Planning
Commission. The application shall contain the following information:
      1.   A legal description of the whole parcel proposed to be divided;
      2.   Existing use of the parcel to be divided;
      3.   The proposed use of the parcels to be created;
      4.   The existing and proposed zoning on the parcel to be divided;
      5.   The source of domestic water supply and the proposed method of
sewage disposal;
      6.   Name, address and telephone number of the applicant and owners;
      7.   Certification by owner that he/she is the owner of the property on
the map as proposed for subdivision, has examined the map and consents to its
submission;
      8.   A preliminary title report describing the status of all interests in
the parcel to be divided shall be attached thereto.
   (C)   Tentative Map, Form and Content. A tentative parcel map shall be
legibly drawn on reproducible material to a scale and in a manner prescribed by
the City Engineer to best illustrate the proposed division of land.
The following information shall be shown on the map:
      1.   The boundary lines of the entire parcel including the area to be
divided, with dimensions, based on existing survey data or property
description;
      2.   The proposed division lines with dimensions;
      3.   Identification of each parcel with a number;
      4.   All existing buildings and structures located within one hundred
feet (100') of all proposed boundary lines, together with their major exterior
dimensions and the distance from said boundary lines (except when located on
the opposite side of public rights-of-way);
      5.   The location of all existing wells, septic tanks and leaching fields
located within one hundred feet (100') of all proposed boundary lines, with the
distance from said boundary lines (except when located on the opposite side of
public rights-of-way);
      6.   The location and names of all abutting roads;
      7.   The location, widths and names of any roads proposed by the
subdivider;
      8.   Source of data from which the map was drawn;
      9.   Name, address and telephone number of the person preparing the map;
      10.   The width and location of all existing or proposed easements or
rights-of-way within the land being divided or on its boundaries;
      11.   Land subject to flooding;
      12.   Watercourses, streams and drainage channels;
      13.   Such additional information as the City deems necessary due to
unusual topography or drainage conditions.
   (D)   Review and Approval of Tentative Parcel Maps:
      1.   The procedure for reviewing and approving tentative parcel maps
shall be as set forth in Section
9-6-6.08 through 9-6-6.17 for tentative maps.
   (E)   Review by the Planning Commission:
      1.   The Commission may make such investigation as it may determine
necessary for the purpose of making its decision. The Commission shall consider
the proposed division of land and said tentative parcel map thereof and shall
determine whether such comply with this Article and shall by resolution
approve, conditionally approve or disapprove of the design of such map. In
approving, conditionally approving or denying a tentative parcel map, the
Planning Commission shall make the findings required in Section
9-6-4.02.
      2.   If the tentative parcel map shows, or if the Commission determines
that any dedication for public use should be required, such map shall be
referred to the Council which may by resolution disapprove or tentatively
approve such dedication.
      3.   The Commission shall make its report on said matter directly to the
subdivider. Such report shall be made within thirty (30) days after such map
and negative declaration or environmental impact report as may be required have
been filed with the Commission.
   (F)   Exceptions. The Planning Commission shall have the authority to grant
exceptions in the manner provided in Section
9-6-11.00, except that no referral to and no action by the Council thereon
shall be required unless the Commission's decision is appealed as provided
below.
   (G)   Waiver of Parcel Map:
      1.   Application: A subdivider may, at the time of filing of a tentative
parcel map, file a request for waiver of the requirement for a final parcel
map. Such a request shall be filed with the Secretary of the Planning
Commission in the form of an application therefor furnished by the City.
      2.   Findings Required: The Planning Commission shall waive the
requirement for the filing of a final parcel map if, after consideration of the
tentative parcel map, information submitted therewith, and any such
investigation as it may determine necessary for the purposes of making its
decision, it finds that all of the following conditions have been met:
         (a)   That the subdivider has complied with the provisions of
subsection 9-6-8.02 of this Chapter.
         (b)   That adequate monuments exist in the field which appear of
record in the office the the County Recorder to permit the retracement of
boundaries for each parcel to be created.
         (c)   That no dedications of rights of way or easements are offered or
required.
         (d)   That all onsite and offsite improvements as required for parcel
maps by Section
9-6-8.04 have been completed.
         (e)   That the proposed division of land complies with requirements as
to area, design, floodwater drainage control, sanitary disposal facilities,
water supply availability, environmental protection and other requirements of
the Subdivision Map Act and this Chapter.
      3.   Waiver Certificate: The instrument evidencing the Planning
Commission's waiving the requirement for a parcel map shall be known as a
"Waiver's Certificate" which shall be prepared by the subdivider and shall
consist of the following form, matters and attachments:
         (a)   A description of the boundary of the property proposed to be
subdivided.
         (b)   A property plat map prepared by or under the direction of a
registered civil engineer or licensed land surveyor and legibly drawn, printed
or reproduced by a process guaranteeing a permanent record in black.
         (c)   The location of all division lines and the exterior boundary of
the land included with the subdivision shall be indicated by distinctive lines
and clearly so designated.
         (d)   The map shall be signed and sealed by the registered civil
engineer or licensed land surveyor.
         (e)   A certificate shall be signed and acknowledged by the parties
having record title interest, consenting to the preparation and recordation of
the waiver's certificate.
         (f)   The size of each sheet shall be eight and one-half inches (8½")
by thirteen inches (13"). An entirely blank margin of two inches (2") shall be
left at the top of each sheet.
      4.   Filing of Waiver Certificate:
         (a)   The waiver certificate shall be submitted to the secretary of
the Planning Commission for his examination prior to filing, together with all
necessary fees for the recordation of the waiver certificate and evidence that
all fees as hereinafter required have been paid. The Secretary of the Planning
Commission shall examine the certificate of waiver, and if he finds the same to
be substantially in the form required by this Chapter, and in conformity with
the conditions imposed by the Planning Commission in connection with the
approval of the tentative parcel map, he shall accept the same for filing and
shall then transmit the same to the City Engineer.
         (b)   Within twenty (20) days after receiving the waiver certificate
or within such additional time as may be reasonably necessary, the City
Engineer shall determine whether the waiver certificate is technically correct
and conforms with the approved tentative parcel map. If approved, he shall so
certify upon the waiver certificate.
         (c)   After affixing his signature upon the waiver certificate, the
City Engineer shall deliver the certificate to the secretary of the Planning
Commission who shall present the certificate to the County Recorder for filing.
When the certificate is presented to the County Recorder and is accepted by
him, he shall file and index the same in the official records of the County.
      5.   Waiver of the parcel map shall not preclude the payment of fees as
provided by Section 9-6-12. Said fees shall be calculated in the same manner as
though a parcel map had been required and shall be paid prior to the filing of
the waiver certificate with the secretary of the Planning Commission.
   (H)   Appeals. In case a subdivider or any party is not satisfied with the
action of the Planning Commission he may, within fifteen (15) days of its
decision, appeal in writing to the City Council and shall state specifically
wherein it is claimed that there was an error or abuse of discretion by the
Planning Commission or whereby its decision is not supported by the evidence in
the record. The Council shall hear such an appeal at its next succeeding
regular meeting and shall give written notice of such hearing to the appellant
and the Planning Commission. The decision of the City Council shall be final.
9-6-8.03: PARCEL MAPS:
   (A)   Map Validity: No subdivision that is governed by the provisions of
this Article shall be deemed valid until and unless it conforms to the
applicable provisions of Section 9-6-1 through 9-6-15, and has been so
certified by the secretary of the Planning Commission or City Clerk and
referred to and filed with the County Recorder.
(B) Proceedings Termination: Failure to file a parcel map within one year after
the date on which the tentative parcel map is approved or conditionally
approved by the Planning Commission or City Council, or any extension thereof,
shall terminate all proceedings. Before a parcel map may thereafter be filed, a
new tentative parcel map shall be submitted and approved. Upon written
application by the subdivider filed prior to the expiration date of the
tentative parcel map, an extension of not more than eighteen (18) months may be
granted by the Planning Commission; provided, however, that no tentative parcel
map may be approved for a period exceeding a total of two and one-half (21/2)
years.
   (C)   Parcel Map Withdrawal:
      1.   In the event the applicant wishes to terminate his application prior
to the recordation of the parcel map, he shall submit his request in writing to
the secretary of the Planning Commission. Where an agreement to construct
improvements has been executed, the City Council may release the applicant from
his agreement to improve and release to him any surety bond or cash deposit
which he may have posted upon completion of necessary abandonment proceedings;
      2.   In the event the parcel map has been recorded with the County
Recorder, a revised parcel map may be prepared in the manner prescribed in this
Chapter for an original parcel map, and the revised parcel map shall supersede
any previous parcel map.
   (D)   Parcel Map, Form And Content: The subdivider shall file twenty five
(25) copies of the parcel map with the secretary of the planning commission not
less than sixty (60) days prior to the date on which the map must be recorded.
The format and content of the final map shall be as prescribed in the following
provisions and the subdivision map act:
      1.   The parcel map shall be prepared by or under the direction of a
registered civil engineer or licensed surveyor;
      2.   It shall be a map legibly drawn, printed or reproduced by a process
guaranteeing a permanent record in black on tracing cloth or polyester base
film including certificates, except that such certificates may be legibly
stamped or printed upon the map with opaque ink. If ink is used on polyester
base film the ink surface shall be coated with a suitable substance to assure
permanent legibility; (Ord. 803, 6-18-1979)
      3.   The size of each sheet shall be eighteen inches by twenty six inches
(18" x 26"). A marginal line shall be drawn completely around each sheet
leaving an entirely blank margin of one inch (1");
4. The scale of the map shall be one inch equals one hundred feet (1"=100'),
except that subdivisions with lots of two and one- half (21/2) acres or greater
may use a scale of one inch equals two hundred feet (1"=200') or the city
engineer may require one inch equals fifty feet (1"=50') if complexity of
detail so warrants;
      5.   When the parcel map consists of more than two (2) sheets a key map
drawn to a scale of one inch equals one thousand feet (1"=1,000') shall be
placed on sheet number one indicating the relationship among all sheets. The
particular number of each sheet and the total number of sheets comprising the
map shall be stated on each of the sheets and its relation to each adjoining
sheet shall be clearly shown;
      6.   The title of each parcel map shall consist of a parcel map number
conspicuously placed on the sheet followed by the words "consisting of .....
sheets" (showing the number thereof) followed by the words "In the City of
Selma". There shall appear a description of all the property being subdivided
by reference to such map or maps of the property shown thereon as previously
recorded or filed in the county clerk-recorder's office or previously recorded
or filed with the county clerk-recorder pursuant to a final judgment in any
action in partition, or previously filed in the office of the county clerk-
recorder under authority of chapter 3, part 2 of division 4 of the Business and
Professions Code, or by reference to the plat of any United States survey. Each
reference in such description to any tract or subdivision shall be spelled out
and worded identically with the original records thereof and must show a
complete reference to the book and page of records of the county clerk-
recorder. The description shall also include reference to any abandonment with
the date, book and page of records of the county clerk-recorder;
      7.   The exterior boundary of the land included within the subdivision
shall be indicated by distinctive lines and clearly so designated. The map
shall show the location of each parcel and its relation to surrounding surveys.
The location of any remainder of the original parcel shall be shown, but need
not be shown as a matter of survey but only by reference to the existing record
boundaries of such remainder if such remainder has a gross area of five (5)
acres or more;
      8.   A lot shall be shown in its entirety on one sheet. The parcel map
shall particularly define, delineate and designate all parcels intended to be
reserved for private purposes, all parcels offered for dedication for any
purpose and any private roads, with all dimensions, boundaries and courses
clearly shown and defined in every case. Parcels offered for dedication other
than for roads, alleys, pedestrian walkways, water lots or easements shall be
designated. The parcels shall be numbered consecutively and shall continue
without omission or duplication throughout the entire subdivision. Each parcel
containing an area of one acre or more, excluding public easements of record,
shall have designated thereon the net acreage of such lot shown not less
accurately than to the nearest one-hundredth (1/100) of an acre;
      9.   Certificates and acknowledgements as are required by the subdivision
map act shall appear on the title sheet of the parcel map, unless their
omission is permitted in the manner provided by the subdivision map act;
      10.   A certificate, either separate document or certificate on parcel
map, signed and acknowledged by all parties having any record title interest in
the real property subdivided, as specified in section 66445 of the subdivision
map act, consenting to the preparation and recordation of the parcel map is
required. However, with respect to a division of land into four (4) or fewer
parcels, where dedications or offers of dedications are not required, the
certificate shall be signed and acknowledged by the subdivider only;
      11.   A certificate for the city clerk shall be required where
dedications are offered and shall certify the action of the city council to
accept or reject the proposed dedications;
      12.   Evidence of title, acceptable to the county clerk-recorder, shall
be secured from a title company indicating that, as shown by public records,
the parties whose signatures appear on the map and consent to the recordation
of the map are all the parties having a record title interest in the land being
subdivided whose signatures are required by the subdivision map act.
   (E)   Survey Data Requirements For Parcel Maps:
      1.   The survey data requirements for parcel maps shall be the same as
the requirements prescribed for final subdivision maps in sections
9-6-7.15 through
9-6-7.25 of this chapter.
      2.   A parcel map may be compiled from available record or filed data
when sufficient survey information exists on filed maps and when the location
of any boundary of the parcel map, either by monuments or possessory lines, is
certain. If there is not sufficient survey information on filed maps and when
the location of the boundary of the parcel map is uncertain a field survey
shall be made.
   (F)   Examination Of Parcel Map, Secretary Of The Planning Commission: The
secretary of the planning commission shall examine the parcel map, and if he
finds the same to be substantially in the form required by this chapter and in
conformity with conditions imposed by the planning commission in connection
with the approval of the tentative parcel map, he shall accept the same for
filing and shall then transmit the same to the city engineer.
   (G)   Examination Of Parcel Map, City Engineer: The city engineer shall
examine the parcel map and it shall be certified by him if he shall find that
such map is substantially the same as the approved tentative parcel map and
that the map is technically correct and in proper form as required by this
chapter and the subdivision map act. Review of the parcel map shall be
completed by the city engineer within twenty (20) days after receiving the map
or within such additional time as may be reasonably necessary.
   (H)   Verification Of Improvements: If the subdivider states that the
required improvements, if there be any, or any part of them have been
completed, they shall be inspected by the city engineer, or any other city
officer designated for such purpose by the council, and if the same have been
completed in conformity with the requirements of the planning commission and
applicable provisions of sections
9-6-1.00 through
9-6-15.00 of this chapter he shall certify such fact on the parcel map or
attach a certificate thereto so showing. If any of the improvements have not
been properly completed he shall attach his report thereof to the map.
   (I)   Completion Of Improvements Or Agreement Therefor: The required
improvements shall be completed and the certificate of completion so showing
shall be filed with the secretary of the planning commission before he shall
approve the parcel map, unless the subdivider shall enter into an agreement
with the city council in accordance with the provisions of section
9-6-12.00 of this chapter to ensure completion of the improvements.
   (J)   Final Certification: When the secretary of the planning commission
shall find that the parcel map is substantially in the form required by this
chapter, in conformity with the conditions imposed by the commission in
connection with the approval of the tentative parcel map, that, where required,
the agreement and bonds respecting improvements have been approved and filed,
and that all certificates of approval herein required have been made, he shall
endorse on such map the final certification thereof.
   (K)   Acceptance Of Dedications: If dedications are offered or required the
secretary of the planning commission shall transmit the parcel map or deeds of
dedication to the council which may accept or reject any or all offers of
dedication by resolution. If the offer of dedication is shown on the parcel map
any acceptance and the date thereof shall be certified on such map by the city
clerk. Dedications shall be completed prior to filing of the parcel map with
the recorder. If, at the time the final map is approved, any streets, paths,
alleys or storm drainage easements are rejected, the offer of dedication shall
remain open and the city council may by resolution at any later date, and
without further action by the subdivider, rescind its action and accept and
open the streets, paths, alleys or storm drainage easements for public use,
which acceptance shall be recorded in the office of the county recorder.
   (L)   Recordation Of Parcel Maps: Upon final certification and acceptance or
rejection of dedications the city clerk shall present the map to the county
recorder for filing. (Ord. 779, 10-17-1977)
9-6-8.04: DESIGN AND IMPROVEMENTS:
All divisions of land shall be designed and improvements thereon constructed
and dedications therefrom required as in the case of subdivisions as provided
in section
9-6-10.00 of this chapter. (Ord. 779, 10-17-1977)
9-6-8.05: FEES, BOND, DEPOSITS:
Fees, bonds and deposits that are required for the filing, or as a condition of
the recordation of a final parcel map, are governed by the provisions of
section
9-6-12.00 of this chapter. (Ord. 779, 10-17-1977)
9-6-8.06: PARCEL MAPS EXCEPTIONS:
See section
9-6-11.00, "Exceptions And Deferrals", of this chapter. (Ord. 821, 2-2-1981)
9-6-9.00: DEDICATIONS, FEES, REIMBURSEMENT AND RESERVATIONS, CERTAIN PUBLIC
FACILITIES:
9-6-9.01: PEDESTRIAN WALKWAYS AND BIKEWAYS:
Pedestrian walkways or bikeways may be required where needed for:
   (A)   Access to schools, playgrounds or parks, shopping centers or other
public areas;
   (B)   Traffic safety; or
   (C)   Access through unusually long blocks;
   (D)   Access to public areas shown on an approved general plan. (Ord. 779,
10-17-1977; amd. Ord. 828, 7-20-1981)
9-6-9.02: PARK AND RECREATION FEES:
   (A)   Authority: This section is enacted pursuant to the authority granted
by section 66477 of the Government Code of the state of California. The park
and recreational facilities for which dedication of land and/or payment of a
fee is required by this section are in accordance with the conservation, open
space and recreation element of the general plan of the city of Selma, adopted
by the city of Selma on August 21, 1989. (Ord. 2003-5, 3-17-2003)
   (B)   Land Or Fee For Park Or Recreational Purposes: As a condition of
approval of a final map or parcel map the subdivider shall dedicate land, pay a
fee in lieu thereof, or both, at the option of the city, for park or
recreational purposes at the time and according to the standards and formula
contained in this section.
   (C)   General Standard: It is hereby found and determined that the public
interest, convenience, health, welfare and safety require that five (5) acres
of property for each one thousand (1,000) persons residing within this city be
devoted to local public park and recreational purposes. (1963 Code)
   (D)   Standards And Formula For Dedication And Development Of Land:
      1.   Where a park or recreational facility has been designated in the
conservation, open space and recreation element of the Selma general plan, and
is to be located in whole or in part within the proposed subdivision to serve
the immediate and future needs of the residents of such subdivision, the
subdivider shall dedicate land for a local park sufficient in size and
topography to serve the residents of the subdivision.
      2.   The amount of land to be provided shall be determined pursuant to
the following standards and formula:
         (a)   
   Average number of persons/unit =    1,000 population
         5 acres
         (b)   
   PARK LAND DEDICATION FORMULA
 
Types Of Dwellings                    Average    Acreage/DU
                                      Density/DU 5 Acres Std.
Low density, single-family (R-1)      3.6        0.0180
Medium density, multiple-family (R-2) 3.5        0.0175
High density, multiple-family (R-3)   3.4        0.017
         (c)   
 
Item                  Number Required Acres
                                     
Parking spaces        5               1
Picnic shelter        1               2
Accessible restroom   1F/1M           4
Children's play area1 1               5
Note:
1.   The children's play area shall include play equipment such as swing sets,
jungle gyms or similar equipment that is approved by the community services
department. Each such area shall be not less than 900 square feet in area.
(Ord. 2003-5, 3-17-2003)
   (E)   Formula For Fees In Lieu Of Land Dedication:
      1.   General Formula: If there is no park or recreational facility
designated in the conservation, open space and recreation element to be located
in whole or in part within the proposed subdivision to serve the immediate and
future needs of the residents of the subdivision the subdivider shall, in lieu
of dedicating land, pay a fee equal to the value of the land prescribed for
dedication in subsection (D) of this section and in an amount determined in
accordance with the provisions of subsection (G) of this section, such fee to
be used for a local park which will serve the residents of the area being
subdivided.
      2.   Fees In Lieu Of Land; Fifty Parcels Or Less: If the proposed
subdivision contains fifty (50) parcels or less, the subdivider shall pay a fee
equal to the land value of the portion of the local park required to serve the
needs of the residents of the proposed subdivision as prescribed in subsection
(D) of this section and in an amount determined in accordance with the
provisions of subsection (G) of this section. (1963 Code)
      3.   Use Of Money: The money collected hereunder shall be used only for
the purpose of providing park or recreational facilities reasonably related to
serving the subdivision by way of the purchase of necessary land or, if the
city council deems that there is sufficient land available for the subdivision,
for improving of such land for park and recreational purposes. Not more than
twenty five percent (25%) of the fees collected may be used for improvements or
upgrades of existing facilities. All other monies collected will be utilized
for the acquisition and development of new park space and/or improvements
thereon. (Ord. 2003-5, 3-17-2003)
   (F)   Criteria For Requiring Both Dedication And Fee: In subdivisions of
over fifty (50) lots the subdivider shall both dedicate land and pay a fee in
lieu thereof in accordance with the following formula:
      1.   When only a portion of the land to be subdivided is proposed on the
conservation, open space and recreation element as the site for a local park
such portion shall be dedicated for local park purposes and a fee computed
pursuant to the provisions of subsection (G) of this section shall be paid for
any additional land that would have been required to be dedicated pursuant to
subsection (D) of this section.
      2.   When a major part of the local park or recreational site has already
been acquired by the city and only a small portion of land is needed from the
subdivision to complete the site, such remaining portion shall be dedicated and
a fee computed pursuant to the provisions of subsection (G) of this section
shall be paid in an amount equal to the value of the land which would otherwise
have been required to be dedicated pursuant to subsection (D) of this section,
such fees to be used for the improvement of the existing park and recreational
facility or for the improvement of other local parks and recreational
facilities in the area serving the subdivision. (1963 Code)
   (G)   Amount Of Fee In Lieu Of Land Dedication And Development: Where a fee
is to be paid in lieu of land dedication and development, the amount of such
fee shall be based upon the estimated costs of dedication and development of
park space. The fee schedule for in lieu of land dedication and development is
as follows:
 
          Single-Family R-2       R-3
          Dwelling
                                
5-17-2003 $1,600.00     $1,556.00 $1,511.00
1-1-2004  1,700.00      1,656.00  1,611.00
1-1-2005  1,800.00      1,756.00  1,711.00
1-1-2006  1,900.00      1,856.00  1,811.00
1-1-2007  2,000.00      1,956.00  1,911.00
 
The fee schedule and collections shall be reviewed annually during this period
and the rates shall be adjusted if deemed appropriate by the city council. The
schedule shall be revisited based upon the city's continuing needs no later
than May 1, 2007. (Ord. 2003-5, 3-17-2003)
   (H)   Subdivisions Not Within General Area: Where the proposed subdivision
lies within an area not then, but to be, included within the city general plan,
the subdivider shall dedicate land, pay a fee in lieu thereof, or both, in
accordance with the adopted park and recreational principles and standards of
the city general plan and in accordance with the provisions of this section.
   (I)   Determination Of Land Or Fee: Whether the city council accepts land
dedication or elects to require payment of a fee in lieu thereof, or a
combination of both, shall be determined by consideration of the following:
      1.   Recreational element of the city's general plan;
      2.   Topography, geology, access and location of land in the subdivision
available for dedication;
      3.   Size and shape of the subdivision and land available for dedication;
      4.   The feasibility of dedication;
      5.   Compatibility of dedication with the conservation, open space and
recreation element; and
      6.   Availability of previously acquired park property.
The determination of the city council as to whether land shall be dedicated, or
whether a fee shall be charged, or a combination thereof, shall be final and
conclusive.
   (J)   Credit For Private Open Space: No credit shall be given for private
open space in a subdivision.
   (K)   Procedure: At the time of approval of the tentative map, the city
council shall determine, pursuant to subsection (I) of this section whether the
land shall be dedicated and/or fees paid by the subdivider. At the time of the
filing of the final map or parcel map the subdivider shall dedicate the land
and/or pay the fees as previously determined.
   (L)   Commencement Of Development: At the time of approval of the final
subdivision map the city council shall specify when development of the park or
recreational facilities shall be commenced.
   (M)   Exemptions: The provisions of this section shall not apply to
subdivisions containing less than five (5) parcels and not used for residential
purposes; provided, however, that a condition may be placed on the approval of
such parcel map that if a building permit is requested for construction of a
residential structure or structures on one or more of the parcels within four
(4) years, the fee may be required to be paid by the owner of each such parcel
as a condition to the issuance of such permit.
The provisions of this section also shall not apply to industrial subdivisions;
nor to condominium projects which consist of the subdivision of airspace in an
existing apartment building which is more than five (5) years old when no new
dwelling units are added; nor to parcel maps for a subdivision containing less
than five (5) parcels for a shopping center containing more than three hundred
thousand (300,000) square feet of gross leasable area and no residential
development or uses. (1963 Code)
9-6-9.03: SCHOOL SITE DEDICATION:
   (A)   A subdivider who develops or completes the development of one or more
subdivisions in one or more school districts maintaining an elementary school
may be required to dedicate to the school district or districts within which
such subdivisions are to be located such land as the city council deems to be
necessary for the purpose of constructing thereon such elementary schools as
are necessary to assure the residents of the subdivision adequate public school
service.
Exception: The city council shall not require the dedication of an amount of
land which would make the development of the remaining land held by the
subdivider economically unfeasible or which would exceed the amount of land
ordinarily allowed under the procedures of the state allocation board.
   (B)   This section shall not be applicable to a subdivider who has owned the
land being subdivided for more than ten (10) years prior to the filing of the
tentative subdivision map.
   (C)   The requirement of dedication shall be imposed at the time of approval
of the tentative subdivision map by the city council. If, within thirty (30)
days after the requirement of dedication is imposed by the City Council, the
school district does not offer to enter into a binding commitment with the
subdivider to accept the dedication, this requirement shall be automatically
terminated.
   (D)   The required dedication shall be made any time before, concurrently
with or up to sixty (60) days after the filing of the final map for any portion
of the subdivision.
   (E)   In the event the school district accepts the dedication, it shall
repay the subdivider or his successors the original cost to the subdivider of
the dedicated land, plus such other additional cost and expenses of the
subdivider as are more particularly provided in Section 66478 of the Government
Code.
   (F)   In the event the land is not used by the school district as a school
site within ten (10) years after the dedication, the subdivider shall have the
option to repurchase the property from the district for the amount paid
therefor, together with interest at the rate of seven percent (7%) per year
from the date of payment by the district to the date the option is exercised.
   (G)   The school district to which the property is dedicated shall record a
certificate with the Clerk-Recorder of the County containing therein all
information required by said Section 66478.
9-6-9.04: RESERVATIONS:
   (A)   The City may require that areas of real property within a subdivision
be reserved for parks, recreational facilities, fire stations, libraries or
other public uses subject to the following conditions:
      1.   The requirement is based upon an adopted specific plan or an adopted
General Plan containing a community facilities element, a recreation and parks
element or a public building element, and the required reservations are in
accordance with definite principles and standards contained therein.
      2.   The reserved area is of such size and shape as to permit the balance
of the property within which the reservation is located to develop in an
orderly and efficient manner.
      3.   The amount of land reserved will not make development of the
remaining land held by the subdivider economically unfeasible.
   (B)   The reserved area shall conform to the adopted specific or General
Plan and shall be in such multiples of streets and parcels as to permit an
efficient division of the reserved area in the event that it is not acquired
within the prescribed period; in such event the subdivider shall make those
changes as are necessary to permit the reserved area to be developed for the
intended purpose consistent with good subdividing practices.
   (C)   The public agency for whose benefit an area has been reserved shall at
the time of approval of the final map or parcel map enter into a binding
agreement to acquire such reserved area within two (2) years after the
completion and acceptance of all improvements, unless such period of time is
extended by mutual agreement. The purchase price shall be the market value
thereof at the time of the filing of the tentative map plus the taxes against
such reserved area from the date of the reservation and any other costs
incurred by the subdivider in the maintenance of such reserved area, including
interest costs incurred on any loan covering such reserved area.
   (D)   If the public agency for whose benefit an area has been reserved does
not enter into such a binding agreement, the reservation of such area shall
automatically terminate.
9-6-9.05: DRAINAGE FEES:
Prior to filing of any final map or parcel map the subdivider shall pay or
cause to be paid any fees for defraying the actual or estimated costs of
constructing planned drainage facilities for the removal of surface and storm
waters from local or neighborhood drainage areas or sanitary sewer facilities
for local sanitary sewer areas established pursuant to Section 66483 of the
Government Code.
9-6-9.06: BRIDGE CROSSINGS AND MAJOR THOROUGHFARES:
The purpose of this Section is to make provision for assessing and collecting
fees as a condition of approval of a final map or as a condition of issuing a
building permit for the purpose of defraying the actual or estimated costs of
constructing bridges or major thoroughfares pursuant to Section 66484 of the
Government Code.
9-6-9.07: SUPPLEMENTAL IMPROVEMENTS REIMBURSEMENT AGREEMENTS:
   (A)   Supplement Improvements Required. The subdivider may be required to
install improvements for the benefit of the subdivision which may contain
supplemental size, capacity or number for the benefit of property not within
the subdivision as a condition precedent to the approval of a subdivision or
parcel map and thereafter to dedicate such improvements to the public. However,
the subdivider shall be reimbursed for that portion of the cost of such
improvements equal to the difference between the amount it would have cost the
subdivider to install such improvements to serve the subdivision only and the
actual cost of such improvements pursuant to the provisions of the Subdivision
Map Act.
   (B)   Supplemental Improvements; Reimbursement Agreement, Funding
Procedures. No charge, area of benefit or local benefit district shall be
established unless and until a public hearing in accordance with the provisions
of Section
9-6-6.11 of this Ordinance is held thereon by the City Council, and the City
Council finds that the fee or charge and the area of benefit or local benefit
district is reasonably related to the cost of such supplemental improvements
and the actual ultimate beneficiaries thereof.
In addition to the notice required by Section
9-6-6.11 of this Ordinance, written notice of the hearing shall be given to the
subdivider and to those who own property within the proposed area of benefit as
shown on the latest equalized assessment role, and the potential users of the
supplemental improvements insofar as they can be ascertained at the time. Such
notices shall be mailed by the City Clerk at least ten (10) days prior to the
date established for hearing.
   (C)   Supplemental Improvements; Drainage, Sewerage, Bridges and Major
Thoroughfares. If the City has adopted a local drainage or sanitary sewer plan
or map as required for the imposition of fees therefor, or has established an
area of benefit for bridges or major thoroughfares as provided in this
Ordinance, the City may impose a reasonable charge on property within the area
benefited and may provide for the collection of said charge as set forth in
this Ordinance. The City may enter into reimbursement agreements with a
subdivider who constructs said facilities, bridges or thoroughfares and the
charges collected by the City therefor may be utilized to reimburse the
subdivider as set forth herein.
9-6-10.00: DESIGN AND IMPROVEMENT STANDARDS:
9-6-10.01: CONFORMANCE:
Design and improvements shall conform to Sections 1.00 through 15.00 and the
improvement standards. Design shall also provide for adequate traffic
circulation and should promote the extension of aesthetic values.
9-6-10.02: ROAD DESIGN, LAYOUT:
Layouts shall conform as follows:
   (A)   Street rights-of-way widths shall be in accordance with Table 1
codified in Section 9-6-10.39.
   (B)   Streets which are extensions of existing streets shall continue the
center line of the existing street, as far as practicable, either in the same
direction or by adjustment curves.
   (C)   All opposing streets entering upon any given street shall have their
center lines directly opposite each other or separated by at least one hundred
twenty five feet (125').
9-6-10.03: ROAD DESIGN, INTERSECTIONS:
The center lines of streets shall intersect one another as nearly at right
angles as practicable, shall not be excessively curved and shall conform to the
requirements for sight distance provided in the improvement standards.
9-6-10.04: ROAD DESIGN, RESTRICTED ACCESS STRIPS:
Abutting land, not part of a subdivision, shall not be permitted to a dedicated
part-width or dead-end road over a restricted access strip.
   (A)   Restricted access strips shall be provided along and at the end of
part-width and dead-end roads to separate them from abutting land not part of
the subdivision.
   (B)   Said restricted access strip shall be not less than one foot (1') in
width and shall be offered for dedication to the City for road purposes.
   (C)   Said restricted access strip shall be shown on the map and identified
as a "Restricted Access Strip ........." (Insert, in alphabetical order, the
appropriate letter designation.)
9-6-10.05: ROAD DESIGN, PART-WIDTH:
The design of the subdivision shall be so that full width local roads will be
provided.
9-6-10.06: ROAD DESIGN, STUB ROADS:
Stub roads shall be provided where necessary to give access to or permit a
satisfactory future development of adjoining land. The road shall extend to the
boundary line of the property, or within one foot (1') thereof where a
restricted access strip is dedicated.
Stub roads which are abutted by more than one lot on either side shall be
terminated by a temporary turn-around. The turn-around shall conform to the
improvement standards. A stub road may be approved by the City Council without
a temporary turn-around when the road is less than one hundred fifty feet
(150') in length, or its length equals the dimensions of the corner lot along
the road, whichever is greater.
9-6-10.07: ROAD DESIGN, CUL-DE-SAC:
Cul-de-sac roads shall be terminated by a permanent turn-around as provided in
the improvement standards. Cul-de-sac roads shall not exceed three hundred feet
(300') in length, measured from the center line of the intersecting road to the
end of the turn-around, unless an additional fire hydrant is located at the end
of the turn-around, in which case the maximum length may be five hundred feet
(500').
9-6-10.08: ROAD DESIGN, FRONTAGE ROADS:
Where lots in a subdivision front on any highway shown in the circulation
element of the General Plan, the City Council may require the dedication and
improvement of a frontage road for access to those lots.
Frontage road intersections which open onto any highway shown on the General
Plan shall be through the bulb type intersection as provided in the improvement
standard.
9-6-10.09: ROAD DESIGN, ACCESS ROADS:
When a subdivision does not abut upon a public road an access road may be
required by the City Council to connect the subdivision with a public road.
When required, the access road shall be considered to be a part of the
subdivision and shall meet all requirements of Sections 1.00 through 15.00.
9-6-10.10: FUTURE ROADS, DEDICATION:
Whenever the Commission or the City Council has determined that a particular
local road is not at this time warranted, but is anticipated to serve local
neighborhood traffic needs, the City Council may require that the location,
width and extent of such road be shown on the final map and offered for
dedication for road purposes.
9-6-10.11: FUTURE ROADS, STATE HIGHWAY:
If a parcel of land to be subdivided includes a portion of the right-of-way for
a State highway, the right-of-way which has been certified by the California
State Highway Commission, the subdivider shall either dedicate or withhold from
subdivision all the area included in said right-of-way.
9-6-10.12: ROAD DESIGN, GRADE SEPARATION:
Whenever it is proposed to subdivide property abutting an approach to an
existing or precise plan lined grade separation, the subdivision shall be so
arranged that any lot abutting such approach shall have suitable access
elsewhere and that the street layout adequately provides for and conforms to
such approach.
9-6-10.13: ROAD DESIGN, ALLEYS:
   (A)   Where Required. An alley, with adequate ingress and egress provided
for truck traffic, may be required at the rear or side of lots where the
property is to be used for multiple residential, commercial or industrial use.
   (B)   Intersections. Intersecting alleys shall not be permitted.
   (C)   Width. Alleys, when required, shall be a minimum of twenty feet (20')
in width.
9-6-10.14: EASEMENTS, LOCATIONS:
   (A)   Sewer, Gas and Water. Sewer, gas and water mains shall not be on rear
or side lot easements unless street location is found to be impracticable or
uneconomical and unless specifically approved by the City Council.
   (B)   Storm Drains and Flood Control. Easements for storm drains and flood
control shall be provided within the subdivision when deemed necessary by the
City Council.
   (C)   Public Utilities. Easements for underground electrical and telephone
facilities shall be provided as requested by the affected utility.
9-6-10.15: EASEMENTS, WIDTH:
All easements within a subdivision shall be not less than sixteen feet (16') in
width, being not less than eight feet (8') on each side of abutting properties.
However, easements of a lesser width may be approved by the City Council when
it has been determined that the purpose of any easement may be accomplished by
the use of a lesser width.
9-6-10.16: LOT DESIGN, AREA AND FRONTAGE:
   (A)   The area and dimensions of lots shall be in conformity with the zoning
regulations for the zoning district in which the proposed subdivision is
located. A larger minimum lot area may be required when necessitated by
topographical and geological consideration.
   (B)   All lots shall have frontage on at least one public or approved
private road as required by the appropriate zoning district. The width of such
frontage shall not be less than that prescribed by the zoning regulations for
the zoning district in which the proposed subdivision is located.
9-6-10.17: GRADING PLAN:
A grading plan shall be prepared prior to the acceptance and approval of the
final subdivision map. The grading plan shall depict the depth and extent of
all excavations and embankments which constitute changes in original grade from
that shown on the approved tentative subdivision map. All grades shall conform
to the datum used in the City's master storm drainage plan.
9-6-10.18: LOT DESIGN, SIDE LINE:
The side line of all lots, so far as possible, shall be at right angles to the
road which the lot faces, or radial or approximately radial if the road is
curved.
9-6-10.19: LOT DESIGN, BOUNDARY LINES:
No lot shall be divided by the boundary line of a county, school or special
district.
9-6-10.20: LOT DESIGN, DOUBLE FRONTAGE LOTS:
Double frontage lots, other than corner lots, which abut two (2) roads and have
a depth less than two hundred forty feet (240') will not be approved except
where necessitated by topographical or other physical conditions or where
ingress and egress to and from one of the roads is prohibited by law or where
direct access rights have been or will be waived.
9-6-10.21: BLOCK DESIGN, LENGTH:
Blocks shall not exceed thirteen hundred twenty feet (1,320') in length between
road center lines, except where topographical or other conditions require
longer blocks.
9-6-10.22: WATERCOURSES:
Where a subdivision or any part thereof is traversed by any watercourse,
channel, stream or creek the subdivider shall, subject to riparian rights,
indicate the physical limits thereof and provide by dedication sufficient
easements to dispose of surface and storm waters originating within the
subdivision. The width and improvements of such dedicated easements shall be
approved by the City Council. Intermittent streams shall be delineated by a
dashed line labeled thread of stream.
9-6-10.23: LAND SUBJECT TO INUNDATION:
   (A)   Land subject to flooding and land deemed by the City Engineer to be
uninhabitable shall not be platted for residential occupancy, nor for such
other uses as may endanger health, life or property, or aggravate the flood
hazard; and shall be shown on the map as subject to inundation or otherwise
uninhabitable.
   (B)   Such land may be filled or otherwise improved in a manner and to a
degree approved by the City Engineer so it is no longer subject to the
restrictions of this subsection. The required improvements shall be completed
or agreed to be completed by secured agreement pursuant to Section
9-6-10.40 prior to the approval of the final map.
   (C)   Lands included within areas designated by the Federal Flood Insurance
Administration as flood prone areas or shown on maps supplied by the U. S.
Department of Agriculture, Soil Conservation Service, or the U. S. Corps of
Engineers as being within flood prone areas, shall not be divided until a plan
provided by the subdivider is approved by the City Engineer showing how all
development within the subdivision will be flood-proofed in a manner which will
not adversely affect surrounding properties.
9-6-10.24: DEDICATIONS:
All land shown and designated on the final map for any public use shall be
offered for dedication. (Ord. 779, 10-17-77)
9-6-10.25: IMPROVEMENTS REQUIRED:
As a condition precedent to the acceptance and approval of the final map or
parcel map, the subdivider shall make, or agree to make, the minimum
improvements set forth in the City Standard Specifications for Public Works.
Additional improvements may be required if deemed by the City Council to be
necessary for the general use of the lot owners in a subdivision and local
neighborhood traffic and drainage needs.
The City Standard Specifications for Public Works is hereby adopted by
reference and made a part of this Section as though fully set forth herein and
all improvements required, pursuant to this Section, shall conform with the
City Standard Specifications for Public Works. (Ord. 836, 12-21-81)
9-6-10.26: through 9-6-10.39:
(Rep. by Ord. 836, 12-21-81)
9-6-10.40: IMPROVEMENT PROCEDURES, AGREEMENTS:
   (A)   Where the required improvements are not completed before a final map
or parcel map is approved, the subdivider shall enter into an agreement with
the City Council prior to the approval of the final map or parcel map to either
complete the work or initiate and consummate proceedings under an appropriate
special assessment act for the financing and improvement thereof. Such
agreement shall provide for the following:
      1.   Time limit for completion of required improvements;
      2.   Changes or alterations that become necessary during the performance
of the work;
      3.   Maintenance for a period of one year after the completion and
acceptance thereof against any defective work or labor done, or defective
materials furnished for those portions of the work which contain earth
excavations or embankments in excess of eight feet (8');
      4.   Maintenance for a period of one year after the completion and
acceptance thereof against any defective work or labor done, or defective
materials furnished, for electrical and mechanical equipment required for water
supply and distribution systems and sewerage collection and treatment
facilities.
   (B)   At the request of the subdivider, the City Council may renew this
agreement at the expiration of this time. Such agreement shall provide for the
release of the required improvement security when the conditions of the
agreement are completed.
   (C)   To assure the City that this work will be completed, improvement
security in the form of a cash deposit, faithful performance bond, instrument
of credit or deposit in escrow shall be provided subject to Section 9-6-12.04.
   (D)   Assessment District Method. Where a special assessment district is
formed for the purpose of financing and constructing the designated
improvements, the original improvement security may be reduced in an amount not
to exceed ninety percent (90%) of the contract amount thereof at such time as
the contract for the work is executed.
9-6-10.41: IMPROVEMENT PROCEDURES, PLAN SUBMITTAL:
   (A)   Where improvements are proposed or are required by the provisions of
Sections 1.00 through 15.00, improvement plans shall be submitted to the City
Engineer for his review and approval. The improvement plans shall show full
details of the improvements as required by the improvement standards. The
improvement plans shall be prepared and signed by a registered civil engineer.
   (B)   During construction of the improvements this civil engineer shall be
available for consultation on the general supervision of the various phases of
the construction operation. He shall also be responsible for providing
construction engineering and surveying to enable the work covered by the
improvement plans to be completed.
9-6-10.42: IMPROVEMENT PROCEDURES, INSTALLATIONS:
All underground utilities required by the final map approval to be installed
below the surface improvement in public roads or alleys or easements shall be
constructed prior to the installation of any surface improvements.
9-6-10.43: IMPROVEMENT PROCEDURES, INSPECTIONS AND ACCEPTANCE:
All required improvements shall be constructed under the inspection of the City
Engineer and shall be subject to approval and acceptance by resolution of the
City Council. The cost of all inspections shall be paid by the subdivider as
provided in Section
9-6-12.02.
9-6-10.44: PRIVATE IMPROVEMENTS; MAINTENANCE, PRIVATE ROADS:
Prior to the recordation of the final map of a subdivision containing any
improved private roads, the subdivider shall have provided for their
maintenance the formation of a permanent road division formed in the manner set
forth by Article 3, Division 2 of the Streets and Highways Code. The City
Council may waive this requirement when it finds such permanent road division
would not be in the public interest, in which event the City Council may impose
such other provisions for maintenance which it deems appropriate. (Ord. 779,
10-17-77)
9-6-10.45: ELECTRICAL TRANSFORMERS:
All electrical transformers serving new single-family housing tracts of ten
(10) or more total lots shall be undergrounded. Phased construction or
recordation of a tract shall not preclude this requirement. (Ord. 93-4, 8-2-93)
9-6-11.00: EXCEPTIONS AND DEFERRALS:
(Ord. 821, 2-2-81)
9-6-11.01: GROUNDS:
The City Council may, upon the petition of a subdivider or upon their own
motion, authorize modifications of requirements and improvement standards as
set forth in Sections 1.00 through 15.00 whenever the land involved in a
subdivision is:
   (A)   Of such size or shape; or
   (B)   Subject to such title limitations of record; or
   (C)   Affected by such topographical location or conditions; or
   (D)   To be devoted to such usage that full conformity to the provisions of
Sections
9-6-1.00 through
9-6-15.00 is impossible or impractical.
9-6-11.02: APPLICATION:
The application for any exception shall be by petition filed with the secretary
of the Planning Commission at the time the tentative map or tentative parcel
map is presented to the Planning Commission.
9-6-11.03: FACTUAL DATA REQUIRED:
In order for the property referred to in the petition to come within the
provisions of this Chapter, it is necessary for the Commission or the City
Council to find that all of the following conditions exist:
   (A)   That there are exceptional circumstances or conditions that affect
said property or the reasonable use thereof;
   (B)   That the exception is necessary to preserve a substantial property
right and permit the enjoyment thereof;
   (C)   That the granting of the exception will not be detrimental to the
public safety, health and welfare;
   (D)   That the granting of the exception will not be injurious to or prevent
the logical development of other property in the immediate area.
9-6-11.04: GRANTING:
The Commission, in recommending the granting of an exception for a tentative
map or in granting an exception for a tentative parcel map may set forth such
conditions as may be necessary to secure substantial compliance with the
objectives of Sections 1.00 through 15.00 protecting the public health, safety
and welfare. For tentative parcel maps the decision of the Planning Commission
shall be final unless appealed to the City Council in accordance with the
procedure in Section
 9-6-8.02(F). (Ord. 779, 10-17-77)
9-6-11.05: DEFERRAL OF REQUIRED IMPROVEMENT:
Public improvements required to be installed in conjunction with on-site
improvements may be deferred under the following circumstances:
   (A)   Where the City Engineer finds and determines that the area drainage
facilities are inadequate and that the installation of all or a portion of the
required public improvements would endanger the public welfare by reason
thereof; or
   (B)   Where the City Engineer determines that it would be in the best
interests of the City to cause all or a portion of the required work to be done
on an area project basis rather than on an individual basis; or
   (C)   Where the Council finds and determines that such requirements, as
applied to an individual property by reason of an exceptional or extraordinary
situation or the condition of such property, or the location thereof, or of the
use or development of property in the immediate vicinity of such property, will
involve practical difficulties or would cause undue hardship unnecessary to
carry out the purposes and spirit of this Chapter.
9-6-11.06: AGREEMENT FOR DEFERRED IMPROVEMENTS REQUIRED:
No such deferral shall be granted nor become effective unless and until an
agreement, between the property owner and the City is properly executed
agreeing that the property owner will undertake the construction of the
required improvements as required by these regulations within ninety (90) days
after notice to begin the construction of such improvements is sent by the City
to the property owner. Such agreement shall further provide that in the event
of default in undertaking and completing the required improvements within the
time specified, the City may cause such work to be done and the cost thereof to
be assessed as a lien against the property. Such agreement shall recite that it
runs with the land and shall be recorded in order to constitute notice to any
prospective buyers or encumbrancers. (Ord. 821, 2-2-81)
9-6-11.07: REFERRAL:
For tentative maps, decisions of the Planning Commission shall be referred to
the City Council concurrent with the Commission's recommendations on the map.
(Ord. 799, 10-17-77)
9-6-11.08: DECISION BY THE COUNCIL:
The City Council shall consider and render its decision on the exception or
deferral concurrent with its review of and decision on the tentative map. (Ord.
821, 2-2-81)
9-6-12.00: FEES, BONDS AND DEPOSITS:
9-6-12.01: FILING FEES:
Filing fees for the following items shall be established by resolution of the
City Council and shall be paid at the time of filing:
   (A)   Tentative map or an alternative tentative map.
   (B)   Tentative parcel map or an alternate tentative parcel map.
   (C)   Final map.
   (D)   Tentative or final reversion to acreage map.
No refund of a filing fee shall be made for filing of any map, or portion
thereof, deleted, withdrawn or abandoned.
9-6-12.02: CHECKING AND INSPECTION FEES:
The subdivider shall pay the fees for checking plans and inspecting all
proposed improvements controlled by the City prior to the submission of the
final map to the City Council. Fees for checking and inspection shall be
established by resolution of the City Council.
9-6-12.03: RECORDATION:
The fees for recording a final map are established by section 27372 of the
Government Code and the fees shall be included in the fees schedule established
by resolution of the City Council. (Ord. 932, 5-21-90)
9-6-12.04: SECURITY:
The agreements referred to in Sections
9-6-8.03(I) and 9-6-10.40 through
9-6-10.43 shall be accompanied by the security to guarantee performance as
follows:
   (A)   Improvement security equal in the amount of the estimated cost of all
required work to secure the performance of all work as indicated in the
agreement, plus an additional ten percent (10%) of the original estimated cost
to cover any changes or alterations that become necessary during the
performance of the work;
   (B)   Improvement security in the amount of fifty percent (50%) of the
estimated cost of all required work to secure payment to the contractor, his
subcontractors and to persons renting equipment or furnishing labor or
materials for such improvements;
   (C)   Improvement security to secure the maintenance for a period of one
year after the completion and acceptance thereof against any defective work or
labor done, or defective materials furnished, for electrical and mechanical
equipment required for water supply and distribution systems and sewerage
collection and treatment facilities. Said security shall not exceed and amount
equal to twenty five percent (25%) of the estimated cost of furnishing and
installing said facilities. This security shall be in addition to any warranty
required of the manufacturer.
   (D)   Improvement security to secure the maintenance of a private road for a
period of one year after the acceptance thereof against any defective work or
labor done or defective material furnished in the construction of the private
work which security shall be in an amount equal to the construction cost
thereof;
   (E)   A bond or a cash deposit in the amount equal to the estimated cost of
placing all monuments and lot corners not set at the time the final map is
filed as specified in Section
9-6-7.25(C) and (D).
   (F)   A bond or cash deposit in the estimated amount of taxes and special
assessments collected as taxes which are a lien but which are not yet payable
as referred to in Chapter 5 of the Subdivision Map Act.
   (G)   In addition to any security required under this Section, the developer
shall pay all costs and reasonable expenses and fees, including reasonable
attorney's fees, incurred by the City in successfully enforcing the obligation
secured.
9-6-12.05: BONDS BY SURETY COMPANIES:
All tax bonds and bonds for special assessments furnished under authority of
the Subdivision Map Act and all faithful performance bonds, referred to in
Sections 1.00 through 15.00, shall be furnished by a surety company authorized
to write the same in the State and shall be subject to approval and acceptance
by the City Attorney.
9-6-12.06: MONEY OR NEGOTIABLE BONDS:
In lieu of any faithful performance bond required by Section 1.00 through
15.00, the subdivider may deposit with the City Council, or deposit in an
irrevocable escrow with a bank, savings and loan association or title company,
a sum of money or negotiable bonds equal to the required amount of such bond or
security for the faithful performance thereof.
9-6-12.07: IMPROVEMENT COMPLETION FAILURE, PROCEDURE:
If the subdivider fails to complete the improvements in the time specified, or
an extension thereof, the City Council may take appropriate legal action
against the subdivider and his bond, with or without first causing such
improvements to be completed. In the event of a cash deposit in lieu of a bond
to secure the improvement agreement, the City Council may, at its option, cause
the improvement to be completed and retain the cost thereof out of the deposit.
In the event the deposit is insufficient to pay the full cost of the
improvement the subdivider shall be liable for any balance.
9-6-12.08: EXONERATION OF BONDS OR MONEY:
It shall be the duty of the City Engineer to inspect all improvements installed
and monuments set as to their compliance with Sections 1.00 through 15.00 and
City standards. No sum of money or bonds given for faithful performance of such
work shall be exonerated from the agreement referred to herein until and unless
the City Engineer certifies compliance thereto. (Ord. 779, 10-17-77)
9-6-12.09: IMPROVEMENT SECURITY, RELEASE:
   (A)   Security given for faithful performance of any act or agreement may be
released upon the final completion of the act or the work encompassed by the
agreement and the acceptance of the act or work by resolution of the City
Council.
   (B)   Security securing payment to the contractor, his subcontractors, and
to persons furnishing labor, materials, or equipment may, six (6) months after
the performance of the act or the completion of the work and its acceptance by
resolution of the City Council, be reduced to an amount not less than the total
of all claims on which an action has been filed and notice thereof given in
writing to the City Council, and if no such actions have been filed, the
security may be released in full.
Such release shall not apply to any required guarantee and warranty period nor
to the amount of the security deemed necessary by the City Council for such
guarantee and warranty period, nor to costs and reasonable attorney's fees.
(Ord. 823, 5-4-81)
9-6-13.00: REVERSION TO ACREAGE:
9-6-13.01: MAP ACT PROVISIONS APPLY:
Subdivision may be reverted to acreage pursuant to Chapter 6 of the Map act.
The provisions of Section 66499.11 through 66499.20 shall apply.
9-6-13.02: TENTATIVE MAPS, REQUIREMENTS APPLY:
When making a reversion to acreage map the applicable requirements of Article
Six as to filing, map form, tract number and subdivision review committee
review shall be complied with unless waived by the secretary.
9-6-13.03: TENTATIVE MAP, REVIEW, REPORT:
Copies of the tentative map, of a reversion to acreage map, shall be
distributed to the City Engineer, City Planner and Superintendent of Public
Works. The City Engineer, City Planner and Superintendent of Public Works shall
review and report upon the map in the manner provided in Section
9-6-6.10.
9-6-13.04: PLANNING COMMISSION CONSIDERATION:
The Commission shall consider the tentative map at a regular or special meeting
after giving notice of its intent to consider the map in a newspaper of general
circulation, within the area affected, at least once in each of two (2) weeks
immediately preceding the meeting at which the tentative map is to be heard. In
making a recommendation to the City Council concerning a reversion to acreage
map, the Commission shall determine that the reversion will have no adverse
effect on abutting property or the proper development thereof, and that there
exists nonuse of streets and easements within the area included in the
reversion to acreage.
9-6-13.05: CITY COUNCIL, ACTION, REPORT:
The City Council shall act upon the Commission's recommendation at a regular or
adjourned regular meeting not less than fifteen (15) or more than forty (40)
days after the filing of the Commission's recommendation with the City Council.
The City Council shall give public notice of its intent to consider the
tentative map in a newspaper of general circulation within the area affected at
least once in each of two (2) weeks immediately preceding the meeting at which
the map is to be heard. In approving or conditionally approving a reversion to
acreage map, the City Council shall find that dedications or offers of
dedication to be vacated or abandoned by the reversion to acreage are
unnecessary for present or prospective public purposes; and either (1) all
owners of an interest in the real property within the subdivision have
consented to the reversion; or (2) none of the improvements required to be made
have been made within two (2) years from the date the final or parcel map was
filed for record, or within the time allowed by agreement for completion of the
improvements, whichever is the later; or (3) no lots shown on the final or
parcel map have been sold within five (5) years from the date such map was
filed for record; or (4) that the reversion will have no adverse effect on
abutting property or the proper development thereof.
The City Council shall report its action in writing to the subdivider and the
Planning Commission and the City Engineer not later than ten (10) days
following such action.
9-6-13.06: TITLE:
Upon the title sheet of each map filed for the purpose of reverting subdivided
land to acreage, the subtitle shall consist of the words "A REVERSION TO
ACREAGE OF ............." (Insert the legal description of the land being
reverted.).
9-6-13.07: FINAL MAP, PREPARATION:
A certificate by a licensed land surveyor or registered civil engineer shall
not be required where sufficient recorded data exists from which an accurate
map may be compiled and the source of the data is shown on the map.
9-6-13.08: DEDICATIONS TERMINATED:
Any previous offer of dedication not retained on the reversion to acreage map
shall be deemed to be terminated upon approval of the final map by the City
Council and the recordation of the final map.
9-6-13.09: TAX BOND:
A tax bond shall not be required in any cases covered by this Section.
9-6-13.10: CITY ENGINEER, REPORT AND CERTIFICATION:
   (A)   The City Engineer shall review each map and assure himself that it
complies with the requirements of the approved tentative map with previously
recorded property description data and with the provisions of law and Sections
1.00 through 15.00. The City Engineer shall consult with the City Planner and
City Superintendent of Public Works in making these determinations.
   (B)   If the final map is in the correct form prescribed by the Subdivision
Map Act and Sections 1.00 through 15.00, and the matters shown thereon are
sufficient, their correctness shall be certified on the map by the City
Engineer.
   (C)   The City Engineer shall, within twenty (20) days after the receipt of
the map, transmit the map together with said other materials to the City Clerk
for presentation to the City Council.
9-6-13.11: CITY COUNCIL, DECISION:
   (A)   Approval of Map:
      1.   At its next regular or adjourned meeting after the filing of a final
map with the City Clerk the City Council shall consider the map to determine if
it is in conformity with all the requirements of the Subdivision Map Act and
Section 1.00 through 15.00 applicable at the time of approval of the tentative
map, or any ruling made thereunder.
      2.   Upon approval of the map by the City Council the City Clerk shall
record the map with the County Clerk-Recorder.
   (B)   Disapproval of Map:
      1.   If the City Council determines that the map is not in conformity
with either the requirements of Sections 1.00 through 15.00, or the tentative
approval of the reversion to acreage, the City Council shall disapprove such
final map, specifying its reason or reasons therefor, and the City Clerk shall
in writing advise the subdivider of such disapproval and the reason or reasons
therefor.
      2.   After the City Council has disapproved any map the proponent may
file a new final map with the City Clerk altered to conform to all the
requirements imposed upon him by Section 1.00 through 15.00.
9-6-14.00: SUBDIVISION PENALTIES:
9-6-14.01: SUBDIVIDING, APPLICABILITY:
It is unlawful for any person as principal, agent or otherwise to divide by
lease, sale or financing into two (2) or more parcels of land, or to lease or
sell, convey, quitclaim or transfer by contract, deed or otherwise any land or
any part thereof whether improved or unimproved in the City unless and until
all of the requirements provided in relation thereto shall have been complied
with; provided that this Section does not apply to the leasing of apartments,
offices, stores or similar space within an apartment building, industrial
building, commercial building or trailer park, nor does this Section apply to
the leasing of apartments, offices, stores or similar space within an apartment
building, industrial building, commercial building or trailer park, nor does
this Section apply to mineral, oil or gas leases or the other exclusions
contained in the Subdivision Map Act.
9-6-14.02: SALE VOIDABLE WHEN:
Any deed of conveyance, sale or contract to sell made contrary to the
provisions of the Map Act of Sections 1.00 through 15.00 is voidable at the
sole option of the grantee, buyer or person contracting to purchase, his heirs,
personal representative or trustee in bankruptcy within one year after the date
of execution of the deed of conveyance, sale or contract to sell; but the deed
of conveyance, sale or contract to sell is binding upon any assignee or
transferee of the grantee, buyer or person contracting to purchase, other than
those above enumerated, and upon the grantor, vendor or person contracting to
sell or his assignee, heir or advisee.
Nothing in this Section shall render void or voidable any trust deed, mortgage
or other encumbrance in the hands of a bona fide holder for value.
9-6-14.03: REMEDIES NOT BARRED:
Nothing herein contained shall bar any legal, equitable or summary remedy to
which the City or other political subdivision or any other person may otherwise
be entitled. The City or other political subdivision or person may file suit in
any court of competent jurisdiction to restrain or enjoin any attempted or
proposed subdivision or sale in violation of the Subdivision Map Act or
Sections 1.00 through 15.00.
9-6-14.04: PERMIT REFUSAL:
The City shall refuse to grant building and other permits in relation to the
property involved until such time as all of the requirements of Sections 1.00
through 15.00 have been complied with.
9-6-14.05: VIOLATION, PENALTIES:
Any offer to sell, contract to sell, sale or deed of conveyance made contrary
to the provisions of Sections 1.00 through 15.00 is a misdemeanor and any
person, firm or corporation, upon conviction thereof, shall be punishable by a
fine of not less than twenty five dollars ($25.00) and not more than five
hundred dollars ($500.00) or imprisonment in the City jail for a period of not
more than six (6) months, or by both such fine and imprisonment.
9-6-15.00: REVOCATION CLAUSE:
All ordinances and parts of ordinances inconsistent with the provisions of this
Ordinance are hereby repealed insofar as they are inconsistent with the
provisions hereof. (Ord. 779, 10-17-77)
CHAPTER 7
ENCROACHMENTS
SECTION:
9-7-1: Public Way Defined
9-7-2: Permit Required
9-7-3: Permit; Application; Contents
9-7-4: Agreement To Work Specifications
9-7-5: Engineering
9-7-6: Permit; Fees
9-7-7: Bond Or Deposit Required
9-7-8: Insurance
9-7-9: Exception For Public Entities
9-7-10: Standards, Terms And Conditions
9-7-11: Permit; Application; Referral To Council
9-7-12: Permit; Appeals
9-7-13: Determination By Council
9-7-14: Permit; Issuance Not Mandatory
9-7-15: Consent Of Property Owner
9-7-16: Permit; Display
9-7-17: Permit; Nontransferable
9-7-18: Permit; Revocation Or Suspension
9-7-19: Notice Of Commencement Of Work
9-7-20: Additional Conditions Of Work
9-7-21: Safety Precautions
9-7-22: Removal Of Debris
9-7-23: Restoration Of Public Way
9-7-24: Notice Of Completion
9-7-25: Permit; Failure To Comply
9-7-26: Performance Of Obligation By Agent Or Employee
9-7-27: Other Remedies
9-7-28: Penalties
9-7-1: PUBLIC WAY DEFINED:
"Public way", when used in this chapter, means the space between the right of
way lines and includes, but is not confined to, any street, alley, parking zone
or sidewalk. (Ord. 2013-2, 4-1-2013)
9-7-2: PERMIT REQUIRED:
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to make or cause to be made any
encroachment, excavation or improvement in or along any public way in the city
without first obtaining a permit to do so from the city, and unless in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person to remove, top or trim any trees
standing in any public way without first obtaining a permit to do so from the
city and unless in accordance with the provisions of this chapter. This
provision shall not apply to minor trimming and pruning which does not involve
the placing of ladders or equipment in a public way other than according to
parking regulations or the falling or piling of debris in a public way 1
.
   (C)   It is unlawful for any person to operate any overwidth vehicle,
including house moving equipment in the city streets, alleys, or rights of way
without first obtaining a permit to do so from the city, and unless in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 2013-2, 4-1-2013)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section 9-4-8 of this title.
9-7-3: PERMIT; APPLICATION; CONTENTS:
Each person desiring issuance of a permit shall file with the public works
director or city engineer a signed application or request, describing the
nature of the encroachment, excavation, improvement or other work to be done
and the location thereof, the names and addresses of the parties to any
contract for the doing of the work, the contractor's license number of any
contractor, the city of Selma business license number of any contractor, and
such plans, profiles, specifications and estimates for the improvement as the
public works director or city engineer may require. (Ord. 2013-2, 4-1-2013)
9-7-4: AGREEMENT TO WORK SPECIFICATIONS:
By signing the application and submitting it to the public works director or
city engineer, the signator shall agree with the city as follows:
   (A)   That the signator shall observe and conform with all of the applicable
provisions of this chapter, and shall perform all work in strict accordance
with this chapter and applicable ordinances of the city and laws of the state,
and in conformity to the plans, profiles and specifications on file with and
approved by the public works director or city engineer, and in accordance with
such standards, terms and conditions mentioned in section
9-7-10 of this chapter and as may be determined and specified by the public
works director or city engineer.
   (B)   That such work shall be commenced and diligently prosecuted within
sixty (60) days after issuance of such permit, and substantially completed
within the time designated by the public works director or city engineer in
such permit, and that such work shall be forthwith terminated upon any
revocation or suspension of the permit as provided in this chapter.
   (C)   To complete, repair or replace, and indemnify the city against any
faulty or improper workmanship or materials, or damage to any adjacent public
improvement that may be discovered during the performance of the work and for a
term of one year after the completion of the work.
   (D)   That the signator shall hold the city, its officers, agents and
employees harmless from any and all liabilities, claims, suits, judgments,
losses or expenses resulting from any claim or court action arising out of any
accident, loss or damage to person or property, or death alleged to arise from
any work carried out pursuant to such permit or condition resulting from such
work.
   (E)   Authorizing the city to deduct from any cash deposit, the amount of
any expense incurred by the city, including a reasonable amount for overhead
and supervision, in the completion of any work or the performance of any other
act required of the signator, if the signator fails to properly and timely
perform the same. (Ord. 2013-2, 4-1-2013)
9-7-5: ENGINEERING:
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the public works director or city engineer to
survey and set all official line and grade stakes for all work on all public
streets, alleys, sidewalks, and public property within the city and to do any
and all work which may at any time be ordered or requested by the city council.
   (B)   The public works director or city engineer shall keep records of all
such work done by him, which records shall be and remain the property of the
city and at all times be open to public inspection. (Ord. 2013-2, 4-1-2013)
9-7-6: PERMIT; FEES:
   (A)   The application mentioned in section
9-7-4 of this chapter shall be signed by the person causing the work or
excavation to be done, or if such work is to be done by a licensed contractor,
then it may be signed by such contractor.
   (B)   The city council shall establish by resolution a schedule of fees for
engineering, inspection, surveying, staking, and other services to be rendered
by the city in connection with work to be performed pursuant to the provisions
of this chapter. Upon the filing of an application to do the work, the
applicant shall pay to the city the estimated cost of such services. (Ord.
2013-2, 4-1-2013)
9-7-7: BOND OR DEPOSIT REQUIRED:
   (A)   The signator of such agreement shall deposit with the director of
finance a bond issued by a corporation licensed to transact business in the
state, which shall guarantee the faithful performance of the agreement
mentioned in subsections
9-7-4(A), (B), and (C) of this chapter.
   (B)   In lieu of such bond, the signator of such agreement may deposit with
the director of finance cash to secure the faithful performance of the
agreement mentioned in subsections
9-7-4(A), (B) and (C) of this chapter; and the city shall be entitled to deduct
from such deposit the expense to the city of completion of the work or repair
of such damage by the city if the signator fails to so perform the same.
   (C)   The amount of such bond or deposit shall be such reasonable sum as the
public works director or city engineer shall determine to be the probable
expense to the city of completion of the work if the signator fails to fully
perform the work and repair of any probable damage, in accordance with the
terms of the agreement and permit.
   (D)   Such bond or deposit shall not be deemed to be in the nature of a
labor and material bond.
   (E)   On expiration of one year from the date of completion of the work, the
bondsman may apply to the city council for release or exoneration of the bond,
or any depositor of such fund or his assigns may apply to the city council for
release of his deposit, subject however to the claims of the city for failure
to faithfully perform said agreement; provided further, that in the case of
cash deposits, that upon completion of the work to the satisfaction of the
public works director or city engineer, and certification of such fact to the
city council and the amount required in his opinion to protect the city against
any faulty or improper workmanship or materials or damage to any adjacent
public works that may be discovered within one year after completion, the city
council shall withhold such amount and release the balance of the deposit to
the depositor thereof or his assigns.
   (F)   Persons who frequently undertake activities which are the subject of
this chapter and who find it convenient to do so, may enter into a general
agreement with the city in the form required by section
9-7-4 of this chapter which applies to all such activities which are the
subject of this chapter carried on by the signator of such agreement while such
agreement is in effect, and who shall furnish the city and deposit with the
director of finance a bond or deposit which guarantees the faithful performance
of the agreement mentioned in subsections
9-7-4(A), (B) and (C) of this chapter with respect to all such activities
undertaken while such agreement remains in effect. The amount of such bond or
deposit shall be such reasonable sum as the public works director or city
engineer determines to be the probable expense to the city of completion of any
work which the signator may fail to fully perform and the repair of any
probable damage to any adjacent public works, and to protect the city against
any faulty or improper workmanship or materials or damage to any adjacent
public works that may be discovered within one year after completion; and from
time to time the public works director or city engineer may require additional
bonds or deposits if he determines that the extent or nature of the work
carried on by such person reasonably requires increased protection for any of
the foregoing purposes. No further permits shall be issued under such general
agreement and bond until the additional bond or deposit is furnished to the
director of finance. Such bond or deposit is subject to release or exoneration
as provided in subsection (E) of this section.
   (G)   For work which does not exceed one thousand dollars ($1,000.00), the
public works director or city engineer within his sole discretion may, in lieu
of the above mentioned bond or cash deposit, enter into a written agreement
without security with the permittee. After successful completion of the
improvements or payment of the lien, the permittee may apply to the city
council for release of the agreement.
   (H)   For work in excess of one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) and for good
cause shown, the city council may, in its sole discretion, enter into an
agreement without security as provided in subsection (G) of this section. (Ord.
2013-2, 4-1-2013)
9-7-8: INSURANCE:
   (A)   No person shall be entitled to a permit pursuant to the provisions of
this chapter unless and until he shall have filed and maintained on file with
the public works director or city engineer a certificate certifying that such
person carries public liability and property damage insurance issued by an
insurance carrier determined reliable by the city's risk manager insuring the
applicant and the city and its agents against loss by reason of injuries to, or
death of, persons or damages to property caused by the applicant, the
applicant's agents, or employees in performing any work under such permit in
the amounts set by resolution of the city council. Such certificate of
insurance shall provide that liability thereunder shall not be canceled until
after at least thirty (30) days' prior written notice of such cancellation from
the insurer to the city.
   (B)   Public utilities and other public agencies shall not be required to
file with the public works director or city engineer the certificate set forth
in subsection (A) of this section provided there shall be filed and maintained
with the city engineer a certificate showing the maintenance of a satisfactory
plan of self-insurance or that sufficient evidence is presented to the public
works director or city engineer that the public utility or other public agency
is of sufficient financial responsibility to provide the necessary
indemnification. (Ord. 2013-2, 4-1-2013)
9-7-9: EXCEPTION FOR PUBLIC ENTITIES:
No bond or deposit is required with respect to the United States government, or
any department thereof, the state of California, or any department or agency
thereof, and/or any local public entity, as defined by Government Code section
900.4. (Ord. 2015-2, 2-17-2015)
9-7-10: STANDARDS, TERMS AND CONDITIONS:
   (A)   Except as may be otherwise provided in this chapter, the standards of
design and materials and the method of doing the work for any curb, gutter,
sidewalk, pavement, ramp, subgrade or drainage facility are as set forth in the
standard specifications of the city.
   (B)   The public works director or city engineer may in his discretion
permit modifications of the standards mentioned in the preceding subsection to
conform with prevailing standards of other improvements in the area of the
proposed improvement if he finds that such modifications will not be
detrimental to the public interest.
   (C)   The public works director or city engineer shall have authority to
determine and specify:
      1.   The standards of design, materials and method of doing work for any
improvement for which no standard is provided by this section;
      2.   The location and grades of all improvement;
      3.   The days or hours and conditions on or under which such work may be
done, if necessary to conform to any public work in progress or about to be
undertaken, or as may be necessary to prevent any undue interference with
traffic or to protect the public safety;
      4.   Devices and precautions necessary for the protection of the public
way, or public improvements or public utilities standing or lying therein, and
the safety of the persons using the public way and to prevent any undue
interference with traffic thereon.
   (D)   Conformity with the standards, terms and conditions mentioned in this
section shall be deemed to be a condition of the permit and part of the
agreement mentioned in section
 9-7-4 of this chapter. (Ord. 2013-2, 4-1-2013)
9-7-11: PERMIT; APPLICATION; REFERRAL TO COUNCIL:
If the public works director or city engineer determines that unusual
circumstances make it advisable, he may refuse to grant the permit and submit
the application to the city council for consideration. (Ord. 2013-2, 4-1-2013)
9-7-12: PERMIT; APPEALS:
If the public works director or city engineer denies an application or imposes
terms or conditions which the applicant believes to be unreasonable, or sets
the amount of bond or deposit which the applicant believes to be unreasonable,
the applicant may appeal to the city council for issuance of the permit. (Ord.
2013-2, 4-1-2013)
9-7-13: DETERMINATION BY COUNCIL:
Upon any such referral or appeal the city council shall determine whether the
permit shall be issued and/or the terms and conditions thereof and/or the
amount of bond or deposit; and the decision of the city council shall be final.
(Ord. 2013-2, 4-1-2013)
9-7-14: PERMIT; ISSUANCE NOT MANDATORY:
Nothing in this chapter shall be deemed to make it mandatory that the public
works director or city engineer or the city council issue any such permit.
(Ord. 2013-2, 4-1-2013)
9-7-15: CONSENT OF PROPERTY OWNER:
The issuance of any permit shall not be deemed to imply or guarantee in any way
that the city owns free title to the real property on which the work is to be
done, nor that the city has sufficient title to the real property to grant the
permittee the right to do work under the surface of the public way. It is the
sole responsibility of the permittee to secure such consent as may be necessary
from the owner of the public way or any other property upon which such work or
excavation is done. (Ord. 2013-2, 4-1-2013)
9-7-16: PERMIT; DISPLAY:
The permit shall be shown on demand to all authorized representatives or peace
officers of the city. (Ord. 2013-2, 4-1-2013)
9-7-17: PERMIT; NONTRANSFERABLE:
No permit may be assigned; and upon any attempted assignment or transfer
thereof, the permit shall be rendered null and void. (Ord. 2013-2, 4-1-2013)
9-7-18: PERMIT; REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION:
   (A)   If the public works director or city engineer determines that the work
has not been commenced within sixty (60) days after issuance of the permit, or
has not been diligently prosecuted, he may revoke the permit.
   (B)   If the public works director or city engineer determines that the work
has not been diligently prosecuted, or is not being carried out in accordance
with the agreement and/or terms and conditions of the permit, he may suspend
the permit.
   (C)   Such revocation or suspension shall be accomplished by the mailing of
written notice thereof by ordinary mail to the address shown upon the
application or agreement or by personal delivery of such written notice to the
permittee. (Ord. 2013-2, 4-1-2013)
9-7-19: NOTICE OF COMMENCEMENT OF WORK:
Immediately prior to commencement of any part of the work the permittee shall
notify the public works director or city engineer of the time thereof. If the
work stops for a period of more than ten (10) days, the permittee shall notify
the public works director or city engineer of the time of resumption thereof.
(Ord. 2013-2, 4-1-2013)
9-7-20: ADDITIONAL CONDITIONS OF WORK:
At any time prior to completion of the work, the public works director or city
engineer may prescribe such additional conditions as he may deem necessary for
the protection of any public way or improvements or any public utilities
standing or lying therein, and the safety of the persons using the public ways
and to prevent any undue interference with traffic. (Ord. 2013-2, 4-1-2013)
9-7-21: SAFETY PRECAUTIONS:
The permittee shall take all precautions necessary to protect the safety of the
traveling public. Barricades, lights, warning signs and flagmen shall be
provided and maintained by the permittee whenever necessary, at his own
expense, until any excavation is refilled or obstruction removed, and the
public way is safe for the use of the traveling public. The public works
director or city engineer may specify in the permit the safety devices and
precautions to be used by the permittee provided however, failure of the public
works director or city engineer to specify such safety devices or precautions
shall not relieve the permittee of any obligation to furnish all of the safety
devices or precautions which may be necessary. Warning signs, lights and
devices shall conform to the requirements of section 21401 of the Vehicle Code
of the state. If the public works director or city engineer finds, at any time,
that suitable safeguards or precautions are not provided by the permittee, the
public works director or city engineer may provide and maintain such safeguards
or precautions as he deems necessary or he may revoke or suspend the permit as
provided in section
9-7-18 of this chapter and restore the public way to its former condition, all
at the expense of the permittee. (Ord. 2013-2, 4-1-2013)
9-7-22: REMOVAL OF DEBRIS:
The permittee shall not allow unreasonable amounts of debris to accumulate upon
the public way, and if the public works director or city engineer determines
that the accumulation of debris is such as to be a hazard to the safety of the
persons using the public way or to prevent any undue interference with the
traffic thereon, he may order the permittee to remove the debris, and failure
of the permittee to do so shall constitute a grounds for revocation or
suspension of the permit, as provided in section
9-7-18 of this chapter and/or the city may remove the debris at the expense of
the permittee. (Ord. 2013-2, 4-1-2013)
9-7-23: RESTORATION OF PUBLIC WAY:
Immediately upon completion of the work authorized by the permit, the permittee
shall refill any and all excavations or remove any obstructions in the public
way in a good and workmanlike manner. All excavations shall be refilled in a
manner to ensure against settlement. Saturated or unsuitable materials shall be
removed from the excavation and the excavation shall be backfilled with
suitable materials and thoroughly tamped. If a treated or modified subgrade of
public way has been removed and destroyed as a result of the excavation, the
permittee shall replace the subgrade to a thickness of not less than that of
the adjacent subgrade. Crushed rock may be used to replace modified subgrade.
If a treated or modified surface of a public way has been removed and destroyed
as a result of an excavation the permittee shall replace the surface to a
thickness and width of not less than that of the original surface and he shall
use the same type of material as the original surface. All work performed
pursuant to this section shall be to the satisfaction of the public works
director or city engineer. If the permittee fails or refuses to repair and
restore the public way or any subgrade to the satisfaction of the public works
director or city engineer within a reasonable time, the public works director
or city engineer shall cause the damaged portion of the public way or subgrade
to be repaired and restored and the permittee shall reimburse the city for the
full cost of such work. If at any time subsequent to the first repair of the
surface or subgrade it becomes necessary to again repair the surface or
subgrade due to settlement or any other cause directly attributed to such
excavation or construction, the public works director or city engineer shall
cause such repairs to be made and the permittee shall reimburse the city for
the full cost of the additional repairs. (Ord. 2013-2, 4-1-2013)
9-7-24: NOTICE OF COMPLETION:
Upon completion of the work authorized by the permit, the permittee shall file
with the public works director or city engineer the notice of completion of
work on a form prescribed by the public works director or city engineer. (Ord.
2013-2, 4-1-2013)
9-7-25: PERMIT; FAILURE TO COMPLY:
It is unlawful for the permittee to make or cause to be made any excavation,
encroachment or construction, or to place upon, maintain or leave any
obstruction or impediment to travel, or to pile or place any material in or
upon any highway, or to install or maintain, or to cause to be installed or
maintained any tank, pipe, conduit, duct, tunnel, curb, gutter, sidewalk or
other structure in, upon or under the surface of any public way at any location
or in any manner other than as set forth in the application for the permit or
the agreement or contrary to the standards provided in this chapter or any
terms or conditions imposed by the public works director or city engineer as in
this chapter provided. (Ord. 2013-2, 4-1-2013)
9-7-26: PERFORMANCE OF OBLIGATION BY AGENT OR EMPLOYEE:
Performance of any of the duties and obligations imposed upon a permittee by
the permit or this chapter by an agent, employee or independent contractor
employed by the permittee shall be deemed to constitute performance of such
duties and obligations by the permittee. (Ord. 2013-2, 4-1-2013)
9-7-27: OTHER REMEDIES:
No provision of this chapter shall be deemed to bar any legal, equitable or
summary remedy to which the city or any person may otherwise be entitled. (Ord.
2013-2, 4-1-2013)
9-7-28: PENALTIES:
See section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 2013-2, 4-1-2013)
CHAPTER 8
PARK REGULATIONS
SECTION:
9-8-1: Application
9-8-2: Designation of City Parks
9-8-3: Damage Prohibited
9-8-4: Miscellaneous Regulations
9-8-5: Camping, Use Reservations and Fees Therefor
9-8-6: Permit for Park Use
9-8-7: Permit Required
9-8-8: Blocking Passageways
9-8-9: Meetings in Parks; Permit
9-8-10: Molesting Animals
9-8-11: Rules and Regulations
9-8-12: Law Enforcement Officer
9-8-1: APPLICATION:
The terms public park or recreation area as used herein shall include all land,
lakes, rivers, beaches, and roadside rests, together with the improvements and
facilities provided thereon or therein, which are owned or operated by the City
as a public park or public recreation area and the provisions of this Chapter
shall apply thereto.
9-8-2: DESIGNATION OF CITY PARKS:
The following areas are designated as City Parks of the City: Berry Park,
Brentlinger Park, Sheridan Park, Peter Ringo Park, Lincoln Park, Thompson/
Floral Park, and all public school sites in the City used to conduct City
recreation programs.
9-8-3: DAMAGE PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any person in any public park or recreation area to
pick or damage any flowers, foliage, or fruit or to break, dig up, or in any
way mutilate or damage any tree, shrub, plant, grass, railing, wall, seat,
fence, or other structure or to cut, carve, write, paint, or otherwise make any
mark thereon or to fasten to any tree, stone, fence, wall, monument, or other
structure any sign, notice, advertisement or other inscription. No person shall
dig up or remove any dirt, stones, rock, or other thing whatever, make any
excavation, lay or set off any blast or otherwise alter the natural features of
any park or recreation area without the specific permission of the Director of
Public Works of the City.
9-8-4: MISCELLANEOUS REGULATIONS:
It shall be unlawful for any person within any park or recreation area to do
any of the following:
   (A)   Deposit, place, throw, or in any manner dispose of any rubbish, trash,
garbage, can, bottle, glass or paper of any decaying or putrid matter of any
kind whatsoever except in containers provided for such purpose.
   (B)   Contaminate in any way any watershed, lake, river or other water
supply and in this respect it shall be unlawful to wash any clothing or cooking
utensils in such waters.
   (C)   Light any fire except in places specifically provided therefor, and
all dead wood, moss, dry leaves, chips, or other combustible material which may
have gathered around any place provided for fires shall be carefully removed
before lighting any fire. When the fire is not longer needed, it shall be
completely extinguished with water.
   (D)   Possess or use any fireworks of any kind whatsoever except for a
public display pursuant to a permit therefor.
   (E)   Possess any firearm or discharge such firearm within, into, or across
such park or recreation area, provided that this provision shall not apply to
any peace officer or concessionaire in the lawful discharge of his duty.
   (F)   Kill, wound, chase, or capture any wild bird or animal, provided,
however, that this provision shall not apply to the duly authorized agents of
the City in the necessary control of predatory birds or animals.
   (G)   Engage in gambling in any form.
   (H)   Permit any dog, cat, fowl, or other domestic animal under his control
to enter or go at large within such park or recreation area; provided, however,
that this shall not apply to dogs upon a leash and under the immediate control
of the person in possession thereof; nor shall it apply to any domestic animal
when specific permission therefor has been granted by the Council.
   (I)   Operate an automobile, motorcycle, or other vehicle in excess of
posted speed limits or into any areas where signs prohibiting the same have
been placed.
   (J)   Solicit, sell, or peddle any food, drink, circulars, papers, goods,
wares, or merchandise of any kind except pursuant to specific concession or
permit therefor secured from the City.
   (K)   Admission Charge: Promote, conduct or manage any game, contest, show,
exhibition, concert or lecture when an admission charge thereto is made or an
offering received except in strict accordance with a written permit therefor
obtained from the director of public works.
   (L)   Distribution Of Advertising: To distribute any handbills, or
circulars, or to post, place or erect any bills, notice, paper, or advertising
device or matter of any kind.
   (M)   Disturbing The Peace: To indulge in riotous, boisterous, threatening,
indecent or immoral conduct, or abusive, threatening, profane language, or to
throw stones or missiles.
   (N)   Solicitation Or Conducting Business: To practice, carry on, conduct,
or solicit for any trade, occupation, business or profession, without the
written permission of the council.
   (O)   Designated Areas: To play, or engage in any game, excepting at such
place as shall be especially set apart for that purpose.
   (P)   Hours: To remain, stay or loiter, in any public park between the hours
of ten thirty o'clock (10:30) P.M. and five o'clock (5:00) A.M. of the
following day, without written permission of the council.
   (Q)   Utility Pipes: To open, expose, or interfere with any water or gas
pipe, hydrant, stopcock, sewer, basin, or other construction, in any park where
prohibited.
   (R)   Towing Of Vehicles: To hang behind any vehicle, or to tow any vehicle
of any kind in any park, excepting, however, in case of breakdowns within the
park, the disabled vehicle may be towed to the nearest point of exit. (Ord.
805, 6-4-1979)
   (S)   Alcoholic Beverages: To bring into any park, or recreation area and
within a sixty foot (60') radius thereof, or possess or consume in any such
area any alcoholic beverage, except that it shall be lawful to bring into,
possess and consume any alcoholic beverage within the Vance Center building and
within the Salazar Community Center building. "Alcoholic beverage" includes
alcohol, spirits, liquor, wine, beer and any liquid or solid containing
alcohol, spirits, wine or beer, and which contains one-half (1/2) of one
percent (1%) or more of alcohol by volume and which is fit for beverage
purposes either alone or when diluted, mixed or combined with other substances.
(Ord. 833, 12-7-1981)
   (T)   Activities And/Or Games: To engage in the following activities and/or
games: discus throwing, javelin throwing, field hockey, baseball (hardball),
rock throwing, bean shooters, gas model airplanes, fireworks, boomerangs,
slingshots, air guns, golf and archery, except in officially designated areas.
(Ord. 805, 6-4-1979)
   (U)   Bounce Houses: Erect, display or utilize recreational facility or
facilities commonly known as bounce house(s) or platform(s) without a written
permit from the city recreation and parks department. Issuance of the permit is
subject to the following requirements:
      1.   That the owner/operator of the aforementioned facility provide a
certificate of insurance naming the city of Selma as an additional insured. The
amount of insurance will be not less than one million dollars ($1,000,000.00);
and
      2.   That the facility not contain any water or climbing feature; and
      3.   That the setup, use, and take down of the feature not impair the use
and enjoyment of other park users or fail to conform with any regulation(s) in
this code. (Ord. 2007-2, 1-16-2007)
9-8-5: CAMPING, USE RESERVATIONS AND FEES THEREFOR:
It shall be unlawful for any person to camp within any park or recreation area
without having first secured a written permit therefor from the council and no
person shall camp outside of a campsite or site designated in such permit.
(Ord. 805, 6-4-1979)
9-8-6: PERMIT FOR PARK USE:
No company, society, or organization of more than twenty five (25) persons
shall hold or conduct any picnic, celebration, parade, service, or exercise in
any public park, without first obtaining permission from the director of public
works, and it shall be unlawful for any person to take part in any picnic,
celebration, parade, service, or exercise held in or conducted contrary to the
provisions hereof. (Ord. 805, 6-4-1979)
9-8-7: PERMIT REQUIRED:
Person desiring to reserve park and picnicking facilities must obtain a permit
therefor from the director of public works who may assign and reserve
particular areas therefor on a first come, first serve basis. It shall be
unlawful for any person other than those designated in the permit to occupy any
areas so assigned when the signs making known such reservation have been posted
or such persons have been otherwise informed thereof by the director of public
works. Any person desiring to reserve an area to accommodate twenty five (25)
or more persons shall make a deposit with the director of public works at the
rate of twenty five dollars ($25.00) per one hundred (100) persons or any part
thereof. Said deposit shall be for the purpose of guaranteeing that the person
obtaining the reservation will clean up the area and that no damage to any park
property will occur. Said deposit shall be returned if the area is left clean
and no such damage is committed. Otherwise, such deposit will be retained by
the director and paid over to the treasurer for deposit in the general fund of
the city. (Ord. 805, 6-4-1979)
9-8-8: BLOCKING PASSAGEWAYS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to assemble, collect, or gather in any
walk, driveway, passageway or pathway in any park or in any other place set
apart for the travel of persons or vehicles in or through any park or to occupy
the same so that the free passage or use thereof by person or vehicles passing
along the same shall be obstructed in any manner. (Ord. 805, 6-4-1979)
9-8-9: MEETINGS IN PARKS; PERMIT:
It shall be unlawful for any person to hold, conduct or address any public
assemblage, meeting, or gathering, or to make or deliver any public speech,
lecture, or discourse, or to conduct, or to take part in any public debate, or
discussion, in any public park, belonging to or under the control of the city,
without first having obtained a permit in writing from the director of public
works. (Ord. 805, 6-4-1979)
9-8-10: MOLESTING ANIMALS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to hunt, pursue, annoy, throw stones or
missiles at, or molest or disturb in any way, any animal, bird or reptile
within the confines of any park. (Ord. 805, 6-4-1979)
9-8-11: RULES AND REGULATIONS:
In order to promote the safety, comfort and convenience of persons using any
park or recreation area, the council may from time to time by resolution adopt
rules and regulations not inconsistent with the provisions of this chapter and
make the same applicable generally or to a particular park or recreation area
or portion thereof. Such rules and regulations may include regulating the speed
of vehicles, establishing campsites, parking areas, and areas where parking or
driving of vehicles is prohibited, areas where certain games or activities are
prohibited, and such other rules and regulations as in the opinion of the
council are necessary for the safety, comfort and convenience of persons using
such park or recreation area. When such rules and regulations have been adopted
and signs erected within the park or recreation area or portions thereof
affected thereby informing the public of the substance of such rules and
regulations, it shall be unlawful for any person to fail to comply therewith.
(Ord. 805, 6-4-1979)
9-8-12: LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICER:
The chief law enforcement official of this chapter shall be the chief of
police. (Ord. 805, 6-4-1979)
CHAPTER 8.1
SKATEBOARDS
SECTION:
9-8.1-1: Application
9-8.1-2: Skateboard Defined
9-8.1-3: Common Roller Skate Defined
9-8.1-4: In-Line Skate Defined
9-8.1-5: Scooter Defined
9-8.1-6: Use And Operation
9-8.1-7: Exceptions
9-8.1-8: Skate Park Designated
9-8.1-9: Required Riding Equipment In Skate Parks
9-8.1-10: In-Line Skating Permitted
9-8.1-11: Use Of Tobacco Prohibited
9-8.1-12: Bicycles And Scooters Prohibited
9-8.1-13: Violation And Penalties
9-8.1-1: APPLICATION:
This chapter shall apply to the use and operation of skateboards, in-line
skates, common roller skates and scooters on all streets, alleys, sidewalks and
rights of way in the city, whether public or private, and all other property
owned by the city and upon private property for which a request for the
application of this chapter has been established. (Ord. 2006-3, 3-20-2006)
9-8.1-2: SKATEBOARD DEFINED:
For the purposes of this chapter, "skateboard" means a plank or board, whether
of wood, fiberglass, plastic, metal or any other material, with wheels attached
thereto, and foot propelled without a steering apparatus. (Ord. 2006-3, 3-20-
2006)
9-8.1-3: COMMON ROLLER SKATE DEFINED:
For the purposes of this chapter, "common roller skate" means a shoe, boot, or
an apparatus worn on a shoe or boot with wheels attached, whether permanently
or temporarily, to such shoe, boot or apparatus. (Ord. 2006-3, 3-20-2006)
9-8.1-4: IN-LINE SKATE DEFINED:
For the purposes of this chapter, "in-line skate" means a common roller skate
with wheels in a straight line resembling the blade of an ice skate. (Ord.
2006-3, 3-20-2006)
9-8.1-5: SCOOTER DEFINED:
For purposes of this chapter, "scooter" means a plank or board, whether made of
wood, fiberglass, plastic, metal or any other material, with wheels and
steering apparatus attached and is foot propelled or motorized. (Ord. 2006-3,
3-20-2006)
9-8.1-6: USE AND OPERATION:
   (A)   Except as otherwise specifically allowed in this chapter, no person
shall use or operate a skateboard, common roller skates, in-line skates, or a
scooter on a public or private street or alley in the city if there is a
sidewalk adjacent and parallel to the street or alley. If no such sidewalk is
present, skateboards, common roller skates, in-line skates, or scooters may be
used or operated on a street or alley as far to the right hand side of the
roadway as is practicable and travel in the same direction as traffic.
   (B)   No person shall use or operate a skateboard in Berry park (except in
the designated skate park) or on those certain streets generally identified as
Floral Avenue westerly of the Union Pacific Railroad crossing to the city
limits (westerly boundary line), Whitson Avenue, 2nd Street from California
State Highway 99 to Lincoln park and the central business district as defined
in section
10-12-11 of this code.
   (C)   No person shall use or operate a skateboard, common roller skates, in-
line skates or scooter on any public or private street, alley, sidewalk or
right of way or on any property owned or controlled by the city in a manner
which endangers the safety of any other person or property. No person using or
operating a skateboard, common roller skates, in-line skates, or a scooter on a
public or private street, alley, sidewalk, or right of way or any other
property owned or controlled by the city shall pass a pedestrian in a manner
forcing or causing them to yield the right of way or otherwise move to avoid
contact. If such street, alley, sidewalk, or right of way is not sufficiently
wide to allow the skateboarder, common roller skater, in-line skater, or person
operating a scooter to pass the pedestrian while maintaining such separation,
the skateboarder, common roller skater, in-line skater, or person operating a
scooter shall cease to operate the skateboard, common roller skates, in-line
skates, or scooter and walk past the pedestrian until such time as the
skateboarder, common roller skater, in-line skater, or scooter can maintain a
safe separation distance.
   (D)   The use of loud noise, brilliant lights, sound, outcry, amplified
loudspeaker, radio, phonograph, horn or any other instrument or device for such
purposes is prohibited. For the purpose of this subsection, "loud" is defined
in excess of fifty (50) decibels.
   (E)   The provisions of subsection
 9-8-4(S) of this title are hereby expressly incorporated in this chapter
(inter alia the prohibition of alcoholic beverages).
   (F)   No person shall use or operate a skateboard, common roller skates, in-
line skates, or scooter within twenty feet (20') of the entrance to any shop,
store, or commercial building while such shop, store, or commercial building is
open for business.
   (G)   The use of ramps, jumps or any other portable device used to force the
skateboard, common roller skates, in-line skates, or scooter off the pavement
shall be prohibited on any public street, alley, sidewalk or right of way,
public property or property owned or controlled by the city and on any private
property unless consented to by the owner or owner designee thereof.
   (H)   No person shall be towed on a skateboard, common roller skates, in-
line skates, or scooter by the use of any mechanical device.
   (I)   No person shall use or operate a skateboard, common roller skates, in-
line skates or scooter more than one-half (1/2) hour after sunset or one-half
(1/2) hour prior to sunrise without the use of an arm mounted light or
reflective arm band or reflective clothing; exception: a public owned and
designated skateboard park.
   (J)   Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this chapter, the use or
operation of skateboards, common roller skates, in-line skates, or scooter
shall be prohibited upon any public or private property or property owned or
controlled by the city when such property has been posted pursuant to this
section. The city and any owner or owner designee of public or private property
are authorized to post or erect signs at their own expense, prohibiting the use
or operation of skateboards, common roller skates, in-line skates or scooter in
or on their property. The Selma police department is authorized to enter upon
any city public or private property so posted to enforce the provisions of this
chapter.
Example sign:
Skateboards, Common Roller Skates, In-Line Skates, or Scooters Prohibited on
Posted Property by SMC Section 8.1-6, Selma Police Department.
   (K)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to a motorized scooter,
as defined in section 407.5 of the California Vehicle Code, which is operated
in accordance with the provisions of sections 21200-21235, inclusive, of the
California Vehicle Code.
   (L)   The city council may provide additional rules and regulations by
resolution which shall be enforced and subject to the penalties as provided in
this chapter. (Ord. 2006-3, 3-20-2006)
9-8.1-7: EXCEPTIONS:
This chapter shall not apply to any private or public facility constructed and
engineered for skateboarding, provided such facility is operating in accordance
with all applicable laws, ordinances and regulations. (Ord. 2006-3, 3-20-2006)
9-8.1-8: SKATE PARK DESIGNATED:
The city council may, from time to time, designate certain areas for skateboard
or in-line skating use. No person shall use the skateboard areas for uses other
than skateboarding or in-line skating except as otherwise specifically provided
in this chapter. The use of any public skateboard facility shall be deemed a
hazardous recreational activity within the provisions of section 831.7 of the
Government Code of the state of California. The city of Selma may not be held
liable for any injuries incurred by persons that participate in any such
hazardous recreational activity.
The city of Selma designates and maintains as a skate park the facility located
in Berry park. (Ord. 2006-3, 3-20-2006)
9-8.1-9: REQUIRED RIDING EQUIPMENT IN SKATE PARKS:
It is unlawful for a person to ride or use a skateboard or in-line skates in a
skate park unless a person is wearing a helmet, elbow pads and knee pads and
where the skate park has a sign posted that provides that anyone riding a
skateboard in the park must wear a helmet, elbow pads and knee pads or be
subject to citation. (Ord. 2006-3, 3-20-2006)
9-8.1-10: IN-LINE SKATING PERMITTED:
In-line skating shall be permitted in the city's designated skate park
facility. (Ord. 2006-3, 3-20-2006)
9-8.1-11: USE OF TOBACCO PROHIBITED:
   (A)   Use of tobacco for any purpose (e.g., smoking or chewing) by any
person while in, on or placing himself or herself within any designated skate
park facility of the city is prohibited.
   (B)   Definitions: The following words and phrases, whenever used in this
Chapter shall have the meanings defined in this section unless the context
clearly requires otherwise:
 
         (1)   Any product containing, made, or derived from tobacco or nicotine that is
         intended for human consumption, whether smoked, heated, chewed, absorbed,
         dissolved, inhaled, snorted, sniffed, or ingested by any other means, including,
         but not limited to cigarettes, cigars, little cigars, chewing tobacco, pipe
         tobacco, snuff; or
         (2)   Any electronic device that delivers nicotine or other substances to the
         person inhaling from the device, including, but not limited to an electronic
TOBACCO  cigarette, electronic cigar, electronic pipe, or electronic hookah.
PRODUCT: (3)   Notwithstanding any provision of subsections (1) and (2) to the contrary,
         "Tobacco Product" includes any component, part, or accessory intended or
         reasonably expected to be used with a Tobacco Product, whether or not sold
         separately.
         "Tobacco Product" does not include any product that has been approved by the
         United States Food and Drug Administration for sale as a tobacco cessation
         product or for other therapeutic purposes where such product is marketed and
         sold solely for such an approved purpose.
         Inhaling, exhaling, burning, or carrying any lighted, heated, or ignited cigar,
SMOKING: cigarette, cigarillo, pipe, hookah, Electronic smoking device, cannabis or any
         plant product intended for human inhalation. (Ord. 2006-3, 3-20-2006; amd. Ord.
         2022-1, 3-21-2022)
 
9-8.1-12: BICYCLES AND SCOOTERS PROHIBITED:
The riding or other use of bicycles and scooters is prohibited in the city's
designated skate park facility. (Ord. 2006-3, 3-20-2006)
9-8.1-13: VIOLATION AND PENALTIES:
Violation of any of the provisions of this chapter may be grounds for removal
from designated skateboarding/skating areas and shall be punishable as an
infraction under the provisions of section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 2006-3, 3-20-2006)
CHAPTER 9
STORM DRAIN SYSTEMS
SECTION:
9-9-1: Purposes
9-9-2: Definitions
9-9-3: Drainage Fees Required; When Payable
9-9-4: Development Without Payment of Drainage Fees Prohibited
9-9-5: Fee Schedule; Computation of Drainage Fees
9-9-1: PURPOSES:
The Council hereby declares and finds that the development of land for urban
uses substantially accelerates the concentration of surface and storm waters
and that it is necessary to establish and collect drainage fees to defray all
or a part of the actual or the estimated cost of constructing planned drainage
facilities for the removal of surface and storm waters from drainage areas in
order to promote and protect the public safety, peace, comfort, convenience and
general welfare and for the accomplishment of the purposes more particularly
set forth as follows:
   (A)   To provide for planned drainage facilities within the City required
for the removal of surface and storm waters;
   (B)   To provide for an additional method of financing the construction of
planned drainage facilities;
   (C)   To provide a reliable source of information regarding the development
of planned drainage facilities for present and prospective residents,
developers and investors in property;
   (D)   To obviate the menace to public safety arising from inadequate
provisions for the removal of storm waters which run off and accumulate as the
result of development of property;
   (E)   To promote conditions that will provide the deterioration of property
values in existing developments and encourage new development of desirable
residential, commercial and/or industrial properties through the construction
of planned drainage facilities;
   (F)   To prevent the deterioration of public streets and other public
facilities which would result from failure to construct planned drainage
facilities; and
   (G)   To provide for the collection of drainage fees for the construction of
planned drainage facilities at the time of the division of land, as authorized
by the Subdivision Map Act of the State 1
and the provisions of this Code, or at the time of other development thereof,
except as excepted in this Chapter.
 
Notes
1 1. For statute authority, see Gov. C. Title 7, Division 2, Chapter 2.
9-9-2: DEFINITIONS:
The words and phrases listed below whenever used in this Chapter shall have the
following definitions:
   COVERED AREA: Area of property covered by improvements including, but not
limited to, roofs, walkways, parking lots, parking area, etc.
   DEVELOPMENT: Any building, structure or other improvement, or the
construction, erection or installation thereof, in, over or upon any parcel of
land, or the division of any parcel of land. "Development" shall not include
any temporary facility or the construction, erection or installation thereof,
which is accomplished in accordance with the terms of any permit issued
therefor or pursuant to such other assurance as the Director may require;
provided, that such temporary facility may be maintained for only a limited
time, not to exceed one year or, if erected or installed for use in the
performance of the work of a construction project, until the completion of such
work.
   DIRECTOR: The City Engineer/Director of Public Works.
   DIVISION: The dividing of any parcel of land into two (2) or more lots or
parcels, including, but not limited to, a division as described in Title 9,
Chapter 6 of this Code.
   DRAINAGE FEES: The fees established and levied as provided in this Chapter
to pay all or any part of the costs of the planned drainage facilities and
their appurtenances.
   DRAINAGE MASTER PLAN: A specific plan adopted by the Council for the
systematic execution of the conservation and public facilities elements of the
Selma General Plan relating to flood control and drainage, and delineating
therein a plan and map of the drainage area showing generally its boundaries
and the location of the planned drainage facilities.
   GROSS ACREAGE: The area of a parcel of land, or of a lot or parcel in a
proposed division, including those portions of all abutting streets and alleys
measured to the center lines thereof or to a line parallel with and thirty feet
(30') outside the property line, whichever shall be the lesser, except that if
a parcel abuts more than one street, the portion of the street abutting the
shortest side, or one side in the case of a square parcel, shall not be
included.
   IMPROVEMENT: Without limitation, any addition to or alteration of an
existing building or structure, or paving or other improvement which restricts
the perviousness of the soil.
   PARCEL OF LAND: Any real property, improved or unimproved, shown on the
latest adopted County tax roll as a unit or as contiguous units.
   PAVING: The placing of concrete, asphalt, oil or any other means of soil
stabilization or consolidation which, as determined by the Director, may
materially decrease the permeability of the natural soil.
   PLANNED DRAINAGE FACILITIES: The facilities which are required to provide
drainage, generally as set forth in the Master Plan. Such facilities may be
modified during final design with the approval of the Director, provided that
such modification will not result in the reduction in the degree of protection
provided in the area under construction.
   STORM DRAIN FUND: A separate fund into which all drainage fees collected
shall be deposited and the moneys in which shall be expended solely for the
acquisition or construction of planned drainage facilities for which such fund
was established.
   ZONING ORDINANCE: The zoning provisions set forth in Title 11 of this Code.
9-9-3: DRAINAGE FEES REQUIRED; WHEN PAYABLE:
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in this Section, a drainage fee shall be
paid to the City on each parcel of land prior to the commencement of the work
of any development thereon.
   (B)   In the case of the division of any parcel of land, a local drainage
fee shall be paid:
      1.   Prior to the approval by the Council of the final map thereof; or
      2.   Prior to the final approval of any division in accordance with the
provisions of Section 9-6-8 of this Code. Such fee shall be paid on the gross
acreage of each lot or parcel in any such division, except any portion thereof
for which fees have previously been paid.
   (C)   Except in the case of a division, drainage fees shall not be payable
on account of any development work which consists solely of the construction,
erection or installation of:
      1.   Fences, pole lines, underground conduits or pipelines, or similar
developments which, as determined by the Director, do not materially impair the
permeability of the natural surface of the parcel of land; or
      2.   Concrete curbs, gutters, sidewalks, driveway approaches, paving or
other street improvements within any street or alley.
   (D)   No drainage fee shall be payable on account of any development or
improvement consisting solely of additions to, alterations of or reconstruction
of any residential building or structure unless the covered area by the
cumulation of additions made after the adoption of this Chapter equals or
exceeds an increase of fifteen percent (15%) of the covered area as it existed
on the date of adoption of this Chapter.
   (E)   No drainage fee shall be payable on account of any development or
improvement consisting solely of additions to, alterations of or reconstruction
of any building or structure, other than residential covered by subsection (D)
hereinabove, unless the additions or alterations are such that, under the
applicable provisions of the Building Code, 1
the entire building or structure must be made to conform to the requirements
for new buildings or structures or unless the area covered by the cumulation of
additions made subsequent to the adoption of this Chapter equals or exceeds an
increase of twenty five percent (25%) of the covered area as it existed on the
date of adoption of this Chapter.
   (F)   Deferrals:
      1.   Payment of the drainage fee on a parcel zoned for industrial
development payable under the provisions of Section 9-6-8 of this Code, or
payable upon a developed industrial zoned subdivision lot, or payable because
of installation of an industrial development may be deferred at the request of
the owner, provided the Director determines that planned drainage facilities
designed to serve the parcel of land are not available and cannot be made
available within a reasonable period of time.
      2.   Any deferment authorized by the provisions of paragraph 1 of this
subsection shall be allowed only if all the owners of the parcel enter into a
written agreement which shall provide that:
         (a)   The fee shall be paid to the City at the earliest of the
following occurrences: three (3) months after notice to the owner or owners by
the Director that the construction of such planned drainage facilities designed
to serve such parcel is to be commenced within one year of the date of such
notice.
         (b)   At the time of payment of the deferred fee, the fee shall be
reduced by a credit which shall be an amount equal to the actual cash
expenditures incurred by the owner for the construction or any temporary
drainage facilities required by the Director as part of the initial development
to serve the property until such time as planned drainage facilities become
available.
         (c)   The agreement creates a valid lien upon such parcel to the
extent of the fee (such lien may be subordinated at the discretion of the
Director, and the form and substance of the agreement, procedures, documents,
covenants, etc., necessary to place the agreement and lien into effect shall
all be determined by the Director, subject to the approval of the City
Attorney); and
         (d)   The owner of such parcel agrees to pay all court costs and
attorney's fees and waives any and all defenses, legal or equitable, other than
liquidated monetary off-sets against the City if an action at law or
foreclosure suit is brought to enforce payment of the fee or recovery of the
fee through the lien.
   (G)   When the drainage fee applicable to any parcel of land shall have been
fully paid pursuant to the provisions of this Chapter, or shall have been
assessed against it by the levying of an assessment therefor in a special
assessment proceeding, no further drainage fees shall be payable with respect
to such parcel; provided, however, if after such full payment, the use of such
parcel of land shall be changed to a use which, under the then current fee
schedule, requires a higher local drainage fee than the use upon the basis of
which such payment was made, then such parcel of land shall be subject to the
payment of an additional fee, which shall be the fee applicable to such parcel
of land in its changed use under the fee schedule in effect at the time the
additional fee is payable, less the total of any fees previously paid.
   (H)   No building permit or other permit for any development shall be issued
pursuant to the provisions of this Chapter unless the drainage fee required by
this Chapter has been fully paid.
 
Notes
1 1. Title 4, Chapter 1 of this Code.
9-9-4: DEVELOPMENT WITHOUT PAYMENT OF DRAINAGE FEES PROHIBITED:
No person shall construct, erect or install, or cause or permit to be
constructed, erected or installed, any development on any parcel of land on
which the drainage fee required by the provisions of this Chapter has not been
fully paid.
9-9-5: FEE SCHEDULE; COMPUTATION OF DRAINAGE FEES:
   (A)   Concurrently with the adoption of the drainage master plan, or any
amendment thereto, the Council shall fix, by resolution, a schedule of per
gross acre fees calculated to raise the sum of money necessary to pay the
estimated costs of the planned drainage facilities as set forth in the drainage
master plan. Such schedule shall be conditioned and based on the following
findings by the Council. That:
      1.   The planned drainage facilities are in conformity with the
conservation and public facilities elements of the General Plan, the drainage
master plan; and
      2.   The development or improvement of property will require the
construction or acquisition of the planned drainage facilities described in the
drainage master plan; and
      3.   The fees are fairly apportioned within the drainage area either on
the basis of benefits conferred on property proposed for subdivision or on the
need for such facilities created by the proposed subdivision and development of
other property within such area; and
      4.   Planned drainage facilities, which facilities are in addition to any
existing drainage facilities serving such local drainage area at the time of
the adoption of the drainage master plan, are necessary to complete the
drainage master plan for the city; and
      5.   The fee apportioned to any property proposed for subdivision within
such drainage area does not exceed the prorata share of the amount of the total
actual or estimated costs of all facilities within such area which would be
assessable on such property if such costs were apportioned uniformly on a per-
acre basis; and
      6.   The drainage facilities planned are in addition to existing
facilities serving the drainage area at the time of the adoption of the
drainage master plan for the area.
   (B)   In the computation of the drainage fee payable because of the
development or improvement or any parcel of land, a credit for drainage fees or
other charges for drainage previously paid, or drainage facilities installed
with respect to such parcel shall be allowed, subject to the conditions and
limitations set forth in this Section. Credits for actual cash expenditures for
the construction of drainage facilities constructed and still in existence and
use in any street, alley or public easement and not constructed by special
assessment proceedings shall be allowed, subject to the following conditions
and limitations:
      1.   The facilities considered for such credits shall have been
constructed in conformance with the standards of the City in effect when such
facilities were constructed.
      2.   The Director shall certify that such facilities are in conformance
with, or compatible for use in connection with, the planned drainage facilities
installed or to be installed in the drainage area.
      3.   The credit allowed shall not exceed the value of such facilities, as
determined by the Director by applying estimates of construction costs
prevailing at the time the credit is allowed.
      4.   The facilities shall have been constructed and paid for with respect
to the parcel of land for which credit is claimed. If the facilities were
constructed for the benefit of other parcels of land in addition to the parcel
for which credit is claimed, the Council may, in the absence of agreement of
the owners of the respective parcels as to the apportionment of the cost,
estimate the total cost of such facilities at the time of construction and
apportion the total credit allowable for such facilities among the several
parcels by such method as it shall, in its sole discretion, deem equitable.
Proof to the satisfaction of the Council shall be made, by the person claiming
credit hereunder, of the amount of any actual cash expenditure on the
facilities for which credit is claimed.
   (C)   Credits for assessments previously levied for planned drainage
facilities by special assessment proceedings shall be allowed, subject to the
following conditions and limitations:
      1.   Such facilities shall have been constructed in conformance with the
standards of the City in effect when such facilities were constructed.
      2.   The credit allowed shall be equal to the amount of the assessment
and any supplemental assessment levied upon the parcel of land, which amount
was paid in cash or which became security for a bond or bonds issued in the
special assessment proceedings. If one assessment was levied for drainage
facilities and other improvements in the same proceeding, the Director shall
determine, from the engineer's report in the assessment proceedings, if
available, otherwise on cost estimates applied by the Director, the proportion
of the assessment attributable to such facilities, and the amount so determined
by him shall be the credit allowed.
   (D)   If a drainage fee was paid on all or a portion of the parcel of land
under the provisions of subsection
9-9-3(D) of this Chapter which is a part of a division, and an additional
drainage fee is payable under any provision of this Chapter, a credit shall be
allowed equal to the amount included in the fee paid under the provisions of
subsection
 9-9-3(B) of this Chapter for the gross acreage of such parcel or portion.
(Ord. 878, 5-20-85)
CHAPTER 10
UNDERGROUND UTILITY DISTRICTS
SECTION:
9-10-1: Definitions
9-10-2: Public Hearing By Council
9-10-3: Council May Designate Underground Utility Districts
9-10-4: Unlawful Acts
9-10-5: Exception, Emergency Or Unusual Circumstances
9-10-6: Other Exceptions
9-10-7: Notice To Property Owners And Utility Companies
9-10-8: Responsibility Of Utility Companies
9-10-9: Responsibility Of Property Owners
9-10-10: Responsibility Of City
9-10-11: Extension Of Time
9-10-1: DEFINITIONS:
Whenever in this Chapter the words or phrases hereinafter in this Section
defined are used, they shall have the respective meanings assigned to them in
the following definitions:
   COMMISSION: The Public Utilities Commission of the State of California.
   POLES, OVERHEAD WIRES AND ASSOCIATED OVERHEAD STRUCTURES: Poles, towers,
supports, wires, conductors, guys, stubs, platforms, crossarms, braces,
transformers, insulators, cutouts, switches, communication circuits,
appliances, attachments and appurtenances located aboveground within a district
and used or useful in supplying electric, communication or similar or
associated service.
   UNDERGROUND UTILITY DISTRICT OR DISTRICT: That area in the City within which
poles, overhead wires, and associated overhead structures are prohibited as
such area is described in a resolution adopted pursuant to the provisions of
Section
9-10-3 of this Chapter.
   UTILITY: Shall include all persons or entities supplying electric,
communication or similar or associated service by means of electrical materials
or devices. (Ord. 654, 12-2-1968, eff. 1-2-1969; amd. Ord. 99-11, 11-15-1999)
9-10-2: PUBLIC HEARING BY COUNCIL:
The Council may from time to time call public hearings to ascertain whether the
public necessity, health, safety or welfare requires the removal of poles,
overhead wires and associated overhead structures within designated areas of
the City and the underground installation of wires and facilities for supplying
electric, communication, or similar or associated service. The Clerk shall
notify all affected property owners as shown on the last equalized assessment
roll and utilities concerned by mail of the time and place of such hearings at
least ten (10) days prior to the date thereof. Each such hearing shall be open
to the public and may be continued from time to time. At each such hearing all
persons interested shall be given an opportunity to be heard. The decision of
the Council shall be final and conclusive. (Ord. 654, 12-2-1968, eff. 1-2-1969;
amd. Ord. 99-11, 11-15-1999)
9-10-3: COUNCIL MAY DESIGNATE UNDERGROUND UTILITY DISTRICTS:
If, after any such public hearing the Council finds that the public necessity,
health, safety or welfare requires such removal and such underground
installation within a designated area, the Council shall, by resolution,
declare such designated area an Underground Utility District and order such
removal and underground installation. Such resolution shall include a
description of the area comprising such District and shall fix the time within
which such removal and underground installation shall be accomplished and
within which affected property owners must be ready to receive underground
service. A reasonable time shall be allowed for such removal and underground
installation, having due regard for the availability of labor, materials and
equipment necessary for such removal and for the installation of such
underground facilities as may be occasioned thereby. (Ord. 654, 12-2-1968, eff.
1-2-1969; amd. Ord. 99-11, 11-15-1999)
9-10-4: UNLAWFUL ACTS:
Whenever the Council creates an Underground Utility District and orders the
removal of poles, overhead wires and associated overhead structures therein as
provided in Section
9-10-3 of this Chapter, it shall be unlawful for any person or utility to
erect, construct, place, keep, maintain, continue, employ or operate poles,
overhead wires and associated overhead facilities are required to be removed by
such resolution, except as said overhead facilities may be required to furnish
service to an owner or occupant of property prior to the performance by such
owner or occupant of the underground work necessary for such owner or occupant
to continue to receive utility service as provided in Section
 9-10-9 of this Chapter, and for such reasonable time required to remove said
facilities after said work has been performed, and except as otherwise provided
in this Chapter. (Ord. 654, 12-2-1968, eff. 1-2-1969; amd. Ord. 99-11, 11-15-
1999)
9-10-5: EXCEPTION, EMERGENCY OR UNUSUAL CIRCUMSTANCES:
Notwithstanding the provisions of this Chapter, overhead facilities may be
installed and maintained for a period, not to exceed ten (10) days, without
authority of the Council in order to provide emergency service. The Council may
grant special permission, on such terms as, the Council may deem appropriate,
in cases of unusual circumstances, without discrimination as to any person or
utility, to erect, and construct, install, maintain, use or operate poles,
overhead wires and associated overhead structures. (Ord. 654, 12-2-1968, eff.
1-2-1969; amd. Ord. 99-11, 11-15-1999)
9-10-6: OTHER EXCEPTIONS:
This Chapter and any resolution adopted pursuant to Section
9-10-3 of this Chapter shall, unless otherwise provided in such resolution, not
apply to the following types of facilities:
   (A)   Any municipal facilities or equipment installed under the supervision
and to the satisfaction of the City Engineer.
   (B)   Poles or electroliers used exclusively for street lighting.
   (C)   Overhead wires (exclusive of supporting structures) crossing any
portion of a district within which overhead wires have been prohibited, or
connecting to buildings on the perimeter of a district, when such wires
originate in an area from which poles, overhead wires and associated overhead
structures are not prohibited.
   (D)   Poles, overhead wires and associated overhead structures used for the
transmission of electric energy at nominal voltages in excess of 34,500 volts.
   (E)   Overhead wires attached to the exterior surface of a building by means
of a bracket or other fixture and extending from one location on the building
to another location on the same building or to an adjacent building without
crossing any public street.
   (F)   Antennas, associated equipment and supporting structures, used by a
utility for furnishing communication services.
   (G)   Equipment appurtenant to underground facilities, such as surface-
mounted transformers, pedestal-mounted terminal boxes and meter cabinets, and
concealed ducts.
   (H)   Temporary poles, overhead wires and associated overhead structures
used or to be used in conjunction with construction projects. (Ord. 654, 12-2-
1968, eff. 1-2-1969; amd. Ord. 99-11, 11-15-1999)
9-10-7: NOTICE TO PROPERTY OWNERS AND UTILITY COMPANIES:
Within ten (10) days after the effective date of a resolution adopted pursuant
to Section
 9-10-3 of this Chapter, the Clerk shall notify all affected utilities and all
persons owning real property within the district created by said resolution of
the adoption thereof. Said Clerk shall further notify such affected property
owners of the necessity that, if they or any person occupying such property
desire to continue to receive electric, communication, or similar or associated
service, they or such occupant shall provide all necessary facility changes on
their premises so as to receive such service from the lines of the supplying
utility or utilities at a new location, subject to applicable rules,
regulations and tariffs of the respective utility or utilities on file with the
Commission.
Notification by the Clerk shall be made by mailing a copy of the resolution
adopted pursuant to Section
9-10-3 of this Chapter, together with a copy of this Chapter, to affected
property owners as such are shown on the last equalized assessment roll and to
the affected utilities. (Ord. 654, 12-2-1968, eff. 1-2-1969; amd. Ord. 99-11,
11-15-1999)
9-10-8: RESPONSIBILITY OF UTILITY COMPANIES:
If underground construction is necessary to provide utility service within a
district created by any resolution adopted pursuant to Section
 9-10-3 of this Chapter, the supplying utility shall furnish that portion of
the conduits, conductors and associated equipment required to be furnished by
it under its applicable rules, regulations and tariffs on file with the
Commission. (Ord. 654, 12-2-1968, eff. 1-2-1969; amd. Ord. 99-11, 11-15-1999)
9-10-9: RESPONSIBILITY OF PROPERTY OWNERS:
   (A)   Every person owning, operating, leasing, occupying or renting a
building or structure within a District shall perform construction and provide
that portion of the service connection on his property between the facilities
referred to in Section
 9-10-8 of this Chapter and the termination facility on or within said building
or structure being served all in accordance with applicable rules, regulations
and tariffs of the respective utility or utilities on file with the Commission.
   (B)   In the event any person owning, operating, leasing, occupying or
renting said property does not comply with the provisions of subsection (A) of
this Section within the time provided for in the resolution enacted pursuant to
Section
9-10-3 of this Chapter, the City Engineer shall post written notice on the
property being served and thirty (30) days thereafter shall have the authority
to order the disconnection and removal of any and all overhead service wires
and associated facilities supplying utility service to said property. (Ord.
654, 12-2-1968, eff. 1-2-1969; amd. Ord. 99-11, 11-15-1999)
9-10-10: RESPONSIBILITY OF CITY:
City shall remove at its own expense all City-owned equipment from all poles
required to be removed hereunder in ample time to enable the owner or user of
such poles to remove the some within the time specified in the resolution
enacted pursuant to Section
9-10-3 of this Chapter. (Ord. 654, 12-2-1968, eff. 1-2-1969; amd. Ord. 99-11,
11-15-1999)
9-10-11: EXTENSION OF TIME:
In the event that any act required by this Chapter or by a resolution adopted
pursuant to Section
9-10-3 of this Chapter cannot be performed within the time provided on account
of shortage of materials, war, restraint by public authorities, strikes, labor
disturbances, civil disobedience, or any other circumstances beyond the control
of the actor, then the time within which such act will be accomplished shall be
extended for a period equivalent to the time of such limitation. (Ord. 654, 12-
2-1968, eff. 1-2-1969; amd. Ord. 99-11, 11-15-1999)
CHAPTER 11
PUBLIC WELFARE
SECTION:
9-11-1:    Sitting, Lying, Sleeping Or Camping On A Public Place Including But
Not Limited To Sidewalks, Streets, Alleys, Sensitive Areas Or Within Doorways
Prohibited
9-11-1: SITTING, LYING, SLEEPING OR CAMPING ON A PUBLIC PLACE INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO SIDEWALKS, STREETS, ALLEYS, SENSITIVE AREAS OR WITHIN DOORWAYS
PROHIBITED:
   (A)   No person may sit, lie, sleep or camp on a public place at any time.
"Camp" shall be defined to include, but not be limited to; sitting, lying,
storing or placing a tent on a public place. "Public Place" shall be defined to
include, but not be limited to, sidewalks, streets, alleyways, or other public
space.
   (B)   No person may sit, lie, sleep or camp in any pedestrian or vehicular
entrance to public or private property abutting a public sidewalk.
   (C)   No person may sit, lie, sleep or camp on a property designated as a
sensitive use. For a property to be designated as a "sensitive use," the
property must be a School, Childcare Facilities, Public Park, Public Library,
City Facility, Governmental Facility located in the City of Selma, Warming and
Cooling Centers, and City-Permitted Shelters for the Unhoused.
   (D)   In addition to any other remedy provided by law, any person found in
violation of this section may be immediately removed from the premises.
   (E)   A violation of this article is a misdemeanor, and upon conviction
punishable by a fine of not exceeding one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) or by
imprisonment in the Fresno County Jail for a period of not more than one year
or by both such fine and imprisonment. In addition to the remedies set forth in
Penal Code section 370, et seq., the City Attorney may institute civil actions
to abate a public nuisance under this article. Any individual charged with
violation of this article, in lieu of being taken to jail may, at the election
of the citing police officer and with the consent of the individual, be taken
to a facility providing social services related to mental health, housing, and/
or substance abuse treatment. As an alternative to a fine or jail sentence, the
City would encourage the Court to grant diversion or probation with a condition
the offender complete a rehabilitation program.
   (F)   The City shall adhere to State law as it pertains to mobile and
sidewalk vendors. (Ord. 2024-7, 10-7-2024)
TITLE X
TRAFFIC
CHAPTER 1
TRAFFIC DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
10-1-1: Definitions
10-1-1: DEFINITIONS:
   (A)   The following words and phrases when used in this Title shall for the
purpose of this Title have the meanings respectively ascribed to them in this
Chapter.
   (B)   Whenever any words or phrases used in this Title are not defined
herein, but are now defined in the Vehicle Code of this State, such definitions
are incorporated herein and shall be deemed to apply to such words and phrases
used herein as though set forth herein in full.
   ALLEY: The word "Alley" shall mean any unnamed street less than twenty five
feet (25') in width between property lines.
   CENTRAL TRAFFIC DISTRICT: The term "Central Traffic District" shall mean all
streets and portions of streets within the area described as follows: All that
area bounded and within that area enclosed by the following streets: Commencing
at Highway 99 and North Street, thence southerly along Highway 99 to West Front
Street; thence northerly along West Front Street to Third Street, thence
easterly along Third Street to Mill Street, thence northerly along Mill Street
to North McCall Avenue, thence northerly along North McCall Avenue to Arrants
Street, thence westerly along Arrants Street to North Street, thence westerly
along North Street to 99 Highway.
   LOADING ZONE: The term "Loading Zone" shall mean the space adjacent to a
curb reserved for the exclusive use of vehicles during the loading or unloading
of passengers or materials.
   OFFICIAL TIME STANDARD: The term "Official Time Standard" shall mean
whenever certain hours are named herein, standard time or daylight saving time
as may be in current use in this City.
   OFFICIAL TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES: The term "Official Traffic Control
Devices" shall mean all signs, signals, markings and devices not inconsistent
with this Title placed or erected by authority of a public body or official
having jurisdiction for the purpose of regulating, warning or guiding traffic.
   OFFICIAL TRAFFIC SIGNALS: The term "Official Traffic Signals" shall mean any
device, whether manually, electrically or mechanically operated, by which
traffic is alternately directed to stop and proceed and which is erected by
authority or public body of official having jurisdiction.
   PARK: The word "Park" shall mean to stand or leave standing any vehicle,
whether occupied or not, otherwise than temporarily for the purpose of and
while actually engaged in loading or unloading of passengers or materials.
   PARKWAY: The word "Parkway" shall mean that portion of a street other than a
roadway or a sidewalk.
   PASSENGERS LOADING ZONE: The term "Passengers Loading Zone" shall mean the
space adjacent to a curb reserved for the exclusive use of vehicles during the
loading or unloading of passengers.
   PEDESTRIAN: The word "Pedestrian" shall mean any person afoot.
   POLICE OFFICER: The term "Police Officer" shall mean every officer of the
Police Department.
   STOP: The word "Stop" when required, shall mean complete cessation of
movement.
   STOP or STAND: The word "Stop" or "Stand" when prohibited, shall mean any
stopping or standing of a vehicle, whether occupied or not, except when
necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance with the
directions of a police officer or official traffic control device.
   TRAFFIC: The word "Traffic" shall mean pedestrians, ridden or herded
animals, vehicles, streetcars and other conveyances either singly or together
while using any street for purposes of travel.
   HOLIDAYS: The word "Holidays" shall mean any day designated as such in
Section 6700 of the Government Code of the State; provided however, that
Saturday afternoon shall not be considered a holiday for the purposes of this
Title. (Ord. 406, 6-6-49)
   CURB: The lateral boundary of the roadway whether such curb be marked by
curbing construction, or not so marked; the word "curb" as herein used shall
not include the line dividing the roadway of a street from parking strips in
the center of a street, nor from tracks or rights of way of public utility
companies. (Ord. 746, 5-3-76)
CHAPTER 2
TRAFFIC ADMINISTRATION
SECTION:
10-2-1: Police Administration
10-2-2: Duty of Traffic Division
10-2-3: Traffic Accident Studies
10-2-4: Traffic Accident Reports
10-2-5: Annual Traffic Safety Report
10-2-6: Traffic Engineer
10-2-7: Duties of Traffic Engineer
10-2-8: Traffic Commission (Rep. by Ord. 829, 8-3-81)
10-2-9: Duties of Traffic Commission (Rep. by Ord. 829, 8-3-81)
10-2-10: Traffic Commission Meetings (Rep. by Ord. 829, 8-3-81)
10-2-1: POLICE ADMINISTRATION:
There is hereby established in the Police Department a Traffic Division to be
under the control of an officer of police appointed by and directly responsible
to the Chief of Police.
10-2-2: DUTY OF TRAFFIC DIVISION:
It shall be the duty of the Traffic Division with such aid as may be rendered
by other members of the Police Department to enforce the street traffic
regulations of this City and all of the State Vehicle Laws applicable to street
traffic in this City, to make arrests for traffic violations, to investigate
traffic accidents and to cooperate with the Traffic Engineer and other officers
of the City in the administration of the traffic laws and in developing ways
and means to improve traffic conditions, and to carry out those duties
specially imposed upon the Division by this Title.
10-2-3: TRAFFIC ACCIDENT STUDIES:
Whenever the accidents at any particular location become numerous, the Traffic
Division shall cooperate with the Traffic Engineer in conducting studies of
such accidents and determining remedial measures.
10-2-4: TRAFFIC ACCIDENT REPORTS:
The Traffic Division shall maintain a suitable system of filing traffic
accident reports. Accident reports or cards referring to them shall be filed
alphabetically by location. The reports shall be available for the use and
information of the Traffic Engineer.
10-2-5: ANNUAL TRAFFIC SAFETY REPORT:
The Traffic Division shall annually prepare a traffic report which shall be
filed with the Council. The report shall contain information on traffic matters
in the City as follows:
   (A)   The number of traffic accidents, the number of persons killed, the
number of persons injured, and other pertinent traffic accident data.
   (B)   The number of traffic accidents investigated and other pertinent data
on the safety activities of the police.
   (C)   The plans and recommendations of the Division for future traffic
safety activities. (Ord. 406, 6-6-49)
10-2-6: TRAFFIC ENGINEER:
The office of Traffic Engineer is hereby established. The Chief of Police shall
serve as Traffic Engineer in addition to other functions, and shall exercise
the powers and duties with respect to traffic as provided in this Title. The
term "Traffic Engineer" as used in this Code, shall refer to the Chief of
Police in all instances, except in those instances where the particular
function involved requires the attention of a licensed engineer. (Ord. 746, 5-
3-76)
10-2-7: DUTIES OF TRAFFIC ENGINEER:
It shall be the general duty of the Traffic Engineer to determine the
installation and proper timing and maintenance of traffic control devices and
signals, to conduct engineering analyses of traffic accidents and to devise
remedial measures, to conduct engineering investigation of traffic conditions
and to cooperate with other City officials in the development of ways and means
to improve traffic conditions, and to carry out the additional powers and
duties imposed by this Title and other provisions of this Code.
10-2-8: TRAFFIC COMMISSION:
(Rep. by Ord. 829, 8-3-81)
10-2-9: DUTIES OF TRAFFIC COMMISSION:
(Rep. by Ord. 829, 8-3-81)
10-2-10: TRAFFIC COMMISSION MEETINGS:
(Rep. by Ord. 829, 8-3-81)
CHAPTER 3
ENFORCEMENT AND OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
SECTION:
10-3-1: Authority Of Police And Fire Department Officials
10-3-2: Required Obedience To Traffic Regulations
10-3-3: Obedience To Police And Fire Department Officials
10-3-4: Direction Of Traffic By Other Than Officials Prohibited
10-3-5: Public Employees To Obey Traffic Regulations
10-3-6: Exemptions To Certain Vehicles
10-3-7: Report Of Damage To Certain Property
10-3-1: AUTHORITY OF POLICE AND FIRE DEPARTMENT OFFICIALS:
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the officers of the police department or such
officers as are assigned by the chief of police to enforce all street traffic
laws of this city and all of the state vehicle laws applicable to street
traffic in the city.
   (B)   Officers of the police department or such officers as are assigned by
the chief of police are hereby authorized to direct all traffic by voice, hand
or signal in conformance with traffic laws; provided, that in the event of a
fire or other emergency or to expedite traffic or to safeguard pedestrians,
officers of the police department may direct traffic as conditions may require,
notwithstanding the provisions of the traffic laws.
   (C)   Officers of the fire department, when at the scene of a fire, may
direct or assist the police in directing traffic thereat or in the immediate
vicinity. (Ord. 406, 6-6-1949)
10-3-2: REQUIRED OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC REGULATIONS:
See section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 2001-8, 11-19-2001)
10-3-3: OBEDIENCE TO POLICE AND FIRE DEPARTMENT OFFICIALS:
No person shall wilfully fail to refuse to comply with any lawful order of a
police officer or fire department official when directing traffic. (Ord. 406,
6-6-1949)
10-3-4: DIRECTION OF TRAFFIC BY OTHER THAN OFFICIALS PROHIBITED:
No person other than an officer of the police department or members of the fire
department or a person authorized by the chief of police or a person authorized
by law shall direct or attempt to direct traffic by voice, hand or other
signal; except that persons may operate any mechanical push button signal
erected by order of the city traffic engineer. (Ord. 746, 5-3-1976)
10-3-5: PUBLIC EMPLOYEES TO OBEY TRAFFIC REGULATIONS:
The provisions of this title shall apply to the driver of any vehicle owned by
or used in the service of the United States government, this state, any county
or city and it shall be unlawful for any driver to violate any of the
provisions of this title, except as otherwise permitted in this title or by
state statute. (Ord. 406, 6-6-1949)
10-3-6: EXEMPTIONS TO CERTAIN VEHICLES:
   (A)   The provisions of this title regulating the operation, parking and
standing of vehicles shall not apply to any vehicle of the police or fire
department, any public ambulance or any public utility or any private
ambulance, which public utility vehicle or private ambulance has qualified as
an authorized emergency vehicle, when any vehicle mentioned in this section is
operated in the manner specified in the vehicle code in response to an
emergency call.
   (B)   The foregoing exemptions shall not, however, protect the driver of any
such vehicle from the consequence of his wilful disregard of the safety of
others.
   (C)   The provisions of this title regulating the parking or standing of
vehicles shall not apply to any vehicle of a city department or public utility
while necessarily in use for construction or repair work or any vehicle owned
by the United States while in use for the collection, transportation or
delivery of United States mail. (Ord. 406, 6-6-1949)
10-3-7: REPORT OF DAMAGE TO CERTAIN PROPERTY:
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle or the person in charge of any animal involved
in any accident resulting in damage to any property publicly owned or owned by
a public utility, including, but not limited to, any fire hydrant, ornamental
lighting post, telephone pole, electric light or power pole, or resulting in
damage to any ornamental shade tree, traffic control device or other property
of a like nature located in or along any street, shall within twenty four (24)
hours after such accident make a written report of the accident to the police
department.
   (B)   Every such report shall state the time and the place where the
accident took place, the name and address of the person owning and the person
driving or in charge of the vehicle or animal, the license number of every such
vehicle, and shall briefly describe the property damaged in the accident.
   (C)   A driver involved in an accident shall not be subject to the
requirements or penalties of this section if and during the time the driver is
physically incapable of making a report, but in such event the driver shall
make a report as required in subsection (A) of this section within twenty four
(24) hours after regaining ability to make such report. (Ord. 406, 6-6-1949)
CHAPTER 4
TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES
SECTION:
10-4-1: Authority To Install Traffic Control Devices
10-4-2: When Traffic Control Devices Required For Enforcement Purposes
10-4-3: Obedience To Traffic Control Devices
10-4-4: Installation Of Traffic Signals
10-4-5: Lane Markings
10-4-6: Removal Or Relocation Of Traffic Control Devices
10-4-7: Traffic Control Devices; Hours Of Operation
10-4-8: Obedience To Barriers And Signs
10-4-1: AUTHORITY TO INSTALL TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES:
   (A)   The traffic engineer shall have the exclusive power and duty to place
and maintain or cause to be placed and maintained official traffic control
devices when and as required under the traffic regulations of the city to make
effective the provisions of this title.
   (B)   Whenever the vehicle code of this state requires for the effectiveness
of any provision thereof that traffic control devices be installed to give
notice to the public of the application of such law the traffic engineer is
hereby authorized to install the necessary devices subject to any limitations
or restrictions set forth in the law applicable thereto.
   (C)   The traffic engineer may also place and maintain such additional
traffic control devices as he may deem necessary to regulate traffic or to
guide or warn traffic, but he shall make such determination only upon the basis
of traffic engineering principles and traffic investigations and in accordance
with such standards, limitations and rules as may be set forth in this title or
as may be determined by ordinance or resolution of the council. (Ord. 406, 6-6-
1949)
10-4-2: WHEN TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES REQUIRED FOR ENFORCEMENT PURPOSES:
No provision of the Vehicle Code of this Title for which signs are required
shall be enforced against an alleged violator unless appropriate signs are in
place and sufficiently legible to be seen by an ordinarily observant person,
giving notice of such provisions of the traffic regulations. (Ord. 406, 6-6-49)
10-4-3: OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES:
The driver of any vehicle and the motorman of any streetcar shall obey the
instruction of any official traffic control device applicable thereto placed in
accordance with this Ordinance unless otherwise directed by a police officer or
other authorized person subject to the exceptions granted the driver of an
authorized emergency vehicle when responding to emergency calls. (Ord. 746 5-3-
76)
10-4-4: INSTALLATION OF TRAFFIC SIGNALS:
   (A)   The Traffic Engineer is hereby directed to install and maintain
official traffic signals at those intersections and other places where traffic
conditions are such as to require that the flow of traffic be alternately
interrupted and released in order to prevent or relieve traffic congestion or
to protect life or property from exceptional hazard.
   (B)   The Traffic Engineer shall ascertain and determine the locations where
such signals are required by resorting to field observation, traffic counts and
other traffic information as may be pertinent and his determinations therefrom
shall be made in accordance with those traffic engineering and safety standards
and instructions set forth in the California Maintenance Manual issued by the
Division of Highways of the State Department of Public Works.
10-4-5: LANE MARKINGS:
The Traffic Engineer is hereby authorized to mark center lines and lane lines
upon the surface of the roadway to indicate the course to be traveled by
vehicles and may place signs temporarily designating lanes to be used by
traffic moving in a particular direction, regardless of the center line of the
highway. When authorized signs have been placed designating off-center traffic
lanes, no person shall disobey the instructions given by such signs.
10-4-6: REMOVAL OR RELOCATION OF TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES:
The Traffic Engineer is hereby authorized to remove, relocate or discontinue
the operation of any traffic control device not specifically required by State
law or this Title whenever he shall determine in any particular case that the
conditions which warranted or required the installation no longer exist or
obtain thereto.
10-4-7: TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES; HOURS OF OPERATION:
The Traffic Engineer shall determine the hours and days during which any
traffic control device shall be in operation or be in effect, except in those
cases where such hours or days are specified in this Title. (Ord. 406, 6-6-49)
10-4-8: OBEDIENCE TO BARRIERS AND SIGNS:
No person, public utility or department in the City shall erect or place any
barrier or sign on any street unless of a type approved by the City Traffic
Engineer or disobey the instructions, remove, tamper with or destroy any
barrier or sign lawfully placed on any street by any person, public utility or
by any department of this City. (Ord. 746, 5-3-76)
CHAPTER 5
TURNING MOVEMENTS
SECTION:
10-5-1: Authority to Place Turning Markers; Obedience
10-5-2: Authority to Place Restricted Turn Signs
10-5-3: Obedience to No-Turn Signs
10-5-4: Authority to Prohibit Right Turns Against Signal
10-5-1: AUTHORITY TO PLACE TURNING MARKERS; OBEDIENCE:
   (A)   The Traffic Engineer is authorized to place markers, buttons, or signs
within or adjacent to intersections indicating the course to be traveled by
vehicles turning at such intersections, and the course to be traveled as so
indicated may conform to or be other than as prescribed by law.
   (B)   When authorized markers, buttons, or other indications are placed
within an intersection indicating the course to be traveled by vehicles turning
thereat, no driver of a vehicle shall disobey the directions of the
indications.
10-5-2: AUTHORITY TO PLACE RESTRICTED TURN SIGNS:
The Traffic Engineer is hereby authorized to determine those intersections at
which drivers of vehicles shall not make a right, left, or U turn, and shall
place proper signs at such intersections. The making of such turns may be
prohibited between certain hours of any day and permitted at other hours, in
which event the same shall be plainly indicated on the signs or they may be
removed when the turns are permitted.
10-5-3: OBEDIENCE TO NO-TURN SIGNS:
Whenever authorized signs are erected indicating that no right or left or U
turn is permitted, no driver of a vehicle shall disobey the directions of any
such sign. (Ord. 406, 6-6-49)
   (A)   When signs are in place, U-turns and left turns shall be permitted at
the automatic signal at Whitson and Second Streets, allowing U-turns and left
turns for traffic on Whitson Street traveling in a Northwesterly direction and
Southeasterly direction. (Ord. 687, 7-2-71, Eff. 8-1-71)
10-5-4: AUTHORITY TO PROHIBIT RIGHT TURNS AGAINST SIGNAL:
The Traffic Engineer is hereby authorized to determine those intersections
within any business district at which drivers of vehicles shall not make a
right turn against a red or stop signal and shall erect proper signs giving
notice of such prohibition. No driver of a vehicle shall disobey the directions
of any such sign. (Ord. 406, 6-6-49)
CHAPTER 6
ONE-WAY STREETS AND ALLEYS
SECTION:
10-6-1: One-Way Streets and Alleys; Signs Required
10-6-2: Obedience to One-Way Signs
10-6-3: One-Way Streets Designated
10-6-4: Parking Parallel on One-Way Streets
10-6-1: ONE-WAY STREETS AND ALLEYS; SIGNS REQUIRED:
Whenever any ordinance or resolution of the City designates any one-way street
or alley, the Traffic Engineer shall place and maintain signs giving notice
thereof, and no such regulations shall be effective unless the signs are in
place. Signs indicating the direction of lawful traffic movement shall be
placed at every intersection where movement of traffic in the opposite
direction is prohibited.
10-6-2: OBEDIENCE TO ONE-WAY SIGNS:
When signs are erected on any one-way street or alley giving notice thereof, no
person shall drive any vehicle in a direction contrary thereto. (Ord. 406, 6-6-
49)
10-6-3: ONE-WAY STREETS DESIGNATED:
In accordance with Section
10-6-1, and when properly signposted, traffic shall move only in the direction
indicated upon the following streets:
   (A)   Tucker Street between Second Street and Third Street, running from
Second Street to Third Street;
   (B)   The alley between East Front Street and High Street, running from
First Street to Second Street;
   (C)   The alley between Selma Street and Third Street, running from Tucker
Street to Mill Street;
   (D)   The alley between East Front Street and High Street, running from
First Street to North Street; (Ord. 628, 6-5-67)
   (E)   The alley between High Street and Grant Street, running from First
Street to North Street; (Ord. 732, 4-21-75)
   (F)   The alley between McCall Avenue and Grant Street, running from Arrants
to McCall Avenue. (Ord. 724, 12-16-74; amd. Ord. 2019-2, 7-1-2019)
10-6-4: PARKING PARALLEL ON ONE-WAY STREETS:
   (A)   Subject to other and more restrictive limitations, a vehicle may be
stopped or parked within eighteen inches (18") of the left-hand curb facing in
the direction of traffic movement upon any one-way street unless signs are in
place prohibiting such stopping or standing.
   (B)   In the event a highway includes two (2) or more separate roadways and
traffic is restricted to one direction upon any such roadway, no person shall
stand or park a vehicle upon the left-hand side of such one-way roadway unless
signs are in place permitting such standing or parking.
   (C)   The City Traffic Engineer is authorized to determine when standing or
parking shall be prohibited upon the left hand side of any one-way street or
when standing or parking may be permitted upon the left-hand side of any one-
way roadway of a highway having two (2) or more separate roadways and shall
erect signs giving notice thereof.
   (D)   The requirement of parallel parking imposed by this Section shall not
apply in the event any commercial vehicle is actually engaged in the process of
loading or unloading freight or goods, in which case such vehicle may be backed
up to the curb, provided that such vehicle does not extend beyond the center
line of the street and does not block traffic thereby. (Ord. 746, 5-3-76)
CHAPTER 7
SPECIAL STOPS
SECTION:
10-7-1: Traffic Engineer to Erect Stop Signs
10-7-2: Stop at Through Street or Stop Sign Required
10-7-3: Emerging From Alley, Driveway or Building
10-7-4: Through Streets Designated
10-7-5: Stop Intersections Designated
10-7-6: Railroad Stops Designated
10-7-7: Yield Intersections Designated
10-7-1: TRAFFIC ENGINEER TO ERECT STOP SIGNS:
Whenever any ordinance or resolution of this City designates and describes any
street or portion thereof as a through street, or any intersection at which
vehicles are required to stop at one or more entrances thereto, or any railroad
grade crossing at which vehicles are required to stop, the City Traffic
Engineer shall erect and maintain stop signs as follows:
A stop sign shall be erected on each and every street intersecting such through
street or portion thereof so designated and at those entrances to other
intersections where a stop is required and at any railroad grade crossing so
designated; provided, however, stop signs shall not be erected or maintained at
any entrance to an intersection when such entrance is controlled by an official
traffic control signal. Every such sign shall conform with, and shall be placed
as provided in the Vehicle Code. (Ord. 746, 5-3-76)
10-7-2: STOP AT THROUGH STREET OR STOP SIGN REQUIRED:
   (A)   Those streets and parts of streets described in Section
10-7-4 hereof are hereby declared to be through streets for the purposes of
this Section.
   (B)   The provisions of this Section shall also apply at one or more
entrances to the intersections as such entrances and intersections are
described in Section
10-7-5 hereof.
   (C)   The provisions of this Section shall apply to those highway railway
grade crossings as described in Section
10-7-6.
   (D)   When stop signs are erected as herein provided at the entrance to any
intersection or at any railway grade crossing, every driver of a vehicle and
every motorman of a streetcar shall stop as required by the Vehicle Code.
   (E)   The provisions of this Section shall also apply at one or more
entrances to the intersections as such entrances and intersections are
described in Section
10-7-7 hereof requiring the installation of yield signs. (Ord. 632, 8-21-67)
10-7-3: EMERGING FROM ALLEY, DRIVEWAY OR BUILDING:
The driver of a vehicle emerging from an alley, driveway or building shall stop
such vehicle immediately prior to driving onto a sidewalk or into the sidewalk
area extending across any alleyway or driveway. (Ord. 746, 5-3-76)
10-7-4: THROUGH STREETS DESIGNATED:
In accordance with the provisions of Section
10-7-2 (A), and when signs are erected giving notice thereof, drivers of
vehicles shall stop at the entrances to those intersections described as
follows:
All intersections on McCall Avenue from High Street to the North City Limits;
All intersections on Second Street from Nebraska Avenue to High Street;
All intersections on Whitson Street from Thompson Avenue to Park Street;
All intersections on Stillman Street from McCall Avenue to Orange Avenue;
All intersections on Stillman Street from Orange Avenue to Dockery Avenue;
All intersections on Floral Avenue from West Front Street to McCall Avenue;
All intersections on Floral Avenue from McCall Avenue to Dockery Avenue;
All intersections on McCall Avenue from Whitson Street to Valley View Avenue;
All intersections on Rose Avenue from McCall to Easterly City Limits;
All intersections on Dockery Avenue from Floral Avenue to Rose Avenue;
All intersections on Dockery Avenue from Rose Avenue to Peach Street;
All intersections on Logan Street from Floral Avenue to Arrants Street;
All intersections on Young Street from Thompson Avenue to Second Street;
All intersections on Valley View Avenue from McCall Avenue to Thompson Avenue;
All intersections on Thompson Avenue from Valley View Avenue to Nebraska
Avenue;
All intersections on Thompson Avenue from Nebraska Avenue to Pine Street.
All intersections on Park Street from Sheridan Street to Thompson Avenue.
All intersections on Wright Street from Arrants Street to Floral Avenue, from
Floral Avenue to Huntsman Avenue, and from Huntsman Avenue to the northerly
City limits.
All intersections on Mill Street from McCall Avenue to and including Orange
Avenue.
All intersections on Thompson Avenue from Floral Avenue to Dinuba Avenue.
All intersections on Arrants Street from McCall Avenue to Orange Avenue.
All intersections on Mill Street from Second Street to Dockery Avenue.
All intersections on Sylvia from Second Street to Thompson Avenue.
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this section, Park Street at the
intersection with Skelton Street, shall not be a through street and shall be an
intersection controlled by stop signs. (Ord. 632, 8-21-1967; amd. Ord. 653, 12-
12-1968; Ord. 722, 11-4-1974; Ord. 728, 3-3-1975; Ord. 759, 10-4-1976; Ord.
855, 6-6-1983; Ord. 873, 11-19-1984; Ord. 2017-5, 11-6-2017)
10-7-5: STOP INTERSECTIONS DESIGNATED:
In accordance with the provisions of subsection
10-7-2(B) of this chapter, and when signs are erected giving notice thereof,
drivers of vehicles shall stop at the entrances to those intersections
described in the list of stop intersections ("list") on file with the Director
of Public Works and a copy which is on file with the City Clerk. Said list is
incorporated herein by reference and may be amended by resolution as adopted
from time to time by the City Council. Said list shall be categorized and
alphabetized as the Director of Public Works determines the most efficient and
usable for the City and the public. (Ord. 2004-3, 2-17-2004)
10-7-6: RAILROAD STOPS DESIGNATED:
In accordance with the provisions of subsection
10-7-2(C) of this chapter and when signs are erected giving notice thereof,
drivers of vehicles shall stop before crossing the railroad tracks at those
highway grade crossings described as follows:
None at this time. (Ord. 406, 6-6-1949)
10-7-7: YIELD INTERSECTIONS DESIGNATED:
In accordance with the provisions of subsection
10-7-2(E) of this chapter and when signs are erected giving notice thereof,
drivers of vehicles shall yield the right-of-way at the entrances to those
intersections described as follows:
Arrants Street, High Street and Logan Street, one yield sign, requiring traffic
entering High Street from Logan Street traveling south to yield to traffic on
High Street entering to right of traffic island.
Van Horn Street and Nebraska Avenue, one yield sign, requiring traffic on Van
Horn (extended) traveling northeast to yield to traffic on Wilson Street
traveling northwest. (Ord. 638, 1-15-1968)
CHARTER 8
MISCELLANEOUS DRIVING RULES
SECTION:
10-8-1: Crossing Fire Hose
10-8-2: Driving Through Funeral Processions
10-8-3: Clinging to Moving Vehicles
10-8-4: Riding or Driving on Sidewalk
10-8-5: New Pavement; Driving on
10-8-6: Reckless Driving on Vacant Lots
10-8-7: Off Highway Use of Motorcycles and Motor Bikes
10-8-1: CROSSING FIRE HOSE:
No vehicle shall be driven over any unprotected hose of a Fire Department when
laid down on any street or private driveway, to be used at any fire or alarm of
fire, without the consent of the Fire Department official in command.
10-8-2: DRIVING THROUGH FUNERAL PROCESSIONS:
No driver of a vehicle or motorman of a streetcar shall drive between vehicles
comprising a funeral procession while they are in motion and when the vehicles
in the processions are conspicuously so designated.
10-8-3: CLINGING TO MOVING VEHICLES:
Any person riding upon any bicycle, motorcycle, coaster, roller skates or any
toy vehicle shall not attach the same or himself to any moving vehicle upon any
roadway. (Ord. 406, 6-6-49)
10-8-4: RIDING OR DRIVING ON SIDEWALK:
No person shall ride, drive, propel, or cause to be propelled any vehicle or
animal across or upon any sidewalk excepting over permanently constructed
driveways and excepting when it is necessary for any temporary purpose to drive
a loaded vehicle across a sidewalk; provided further, that said sidewalk area
be substantially protected by wooden planks two inches (2") thick, and written
permission be previously obtained from the City Traffic Engineer. Such wooden
planks shall not be permitted to remain upon such sidewalk area during the
hours from six o'clock (6:00) P.M. to six o'clock (6:00) A.M. (Ord. 746, 5-3-
76)
10-8-5: NEW PAVEMENT; DRIVING ON:
No person shall ride or drive any animal or any vehicle over or across any
newly made pavement or freshly painted marking in any street when a barrier or
sign is in place warning persons not to drive over or across the pavement or
marking, or when a sign is in place stating that the street or any portion
thereof is closed. (Ord. 406, 6-6-49)
10-8-6: RECKLESS DRIVING ON VACANT LOTS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to drive or operate an automobile in or
upon any vacant lots, school grounds, church grounds or any other place, except
public highways, in the City in such a way, and manner as to indicate a wanton
or wilful disregard for the safety of persons or property, or in such a way as
to endanger the person or property of another. (Ord. 322, 2-20-39)
10-8-7: OFF HIGHWAY USE OF MOTORCYCLES AND MOTOR BIKES:
It is unlawful for any person to ride or operate any motorcycle or motor bike
of any kind on any private property or unoccupied public property within one-
quarter (¼) of a mile of any school, hospital, convalescent home or residential
area as herein defined except upon a regularly established private road,
driveway or parking lot appurtenant to a structure on that property. A
residential area within the meaning of this Section means any area one-quarter
(¼) mile in depth abutting a public or private road and one-quarter (¼) mile in
length measured along such road and which contains any apartment house,
condominium, multiple unit dwelling structure or four (4) or more residences of
any kind or combination. This Section shall not apply to lands within a
National forest or to property specifically devoted to a raceway, hill climb,
motorcycle trail or similar use pursuant to a permit therefor issued by a
governmental agency. (Ord. 725, 1-20-75)
CHAPTER 9
PEDESTRIANS
SECTION:
10-9-1: Crosswalks Established
10-9-2: Pedestrians to Use Crosswalks
10-9-3: Crossing at Right Angles
10-9-4: Standing in Roadways
10-9-1: CROSSWALKS ESTABLISHED:
   (A)   The Traffic Engineer shall establish, designate and maintain
crosswalks at intersections and other places by appropriate devices, marks or
lines upon the surface of the roadway as follows:
Crosswalks shall be established and maintained at intersections within the
central district and at such intersections outside the district, and at other
places within or outside the district where the Traffic Engineer, determines
that there is particular hazard to pedestrians crossing the roadway subject to
the limitation contained in subsection (B) of this Section.
   (B)   Other than crosswalks at intersections no crosswalk shall be
established in any block which is less than four hundred feet (400') in length.
Elsewhere not more than one additional crosswalk shall be established in any
one block and such crosswalk shall be located as nearly as practicable at
midblock. (Ord. 406, 6-6-49)
   (C)   The City Traffic Engineer may place signs at or adjacent to an
intersection in respect to any crosswalk directing that pedestrians shall not
cross in the crosswalk so indicated. (Ord. 746, 5-3-76)
10-9-2: PEDESTRIANS TO USE CROSSWALKS:
No pedestrian shall cross a roadway other than by a crosswalk in the central
traffic district or in any business district.
10-9-3: CROSSING AT RIGHT ANGLES:
No pedestrians shall cross a roadway at any place other than by a route at
right angles to the curb or by the shortest route to the opposite curb except
in a marked crosswalk.
10-9-4: STANDING IN ROADWAY:
No person shall stand in any roadway other than in a safety zone or in a
crosswalk if such action interferes with the lawful movement of traffic. This
provision shall not apply to any public officer or employee, or employee of a
public utility when necessarily upon a street in line of duty. (Ord. 406, 6-6-
49)
CHAPTER 10
STOPPING, STANDING AND PARKING
SECTION:
10-10-1: Application Of Regulations
10-10-2: Standing In Parkways Prohibited
10-10-3: Use Of Streets For Storage Of Vehicles Prohibited
10-10-4: Parking For Certain Purposes Prohibited
10-10-5: Signs Or Markings Indicating Angle Parking
10-10-6: Angle Parking Designated On Certain Streets
10-10-7: Loading Or Unloading At Angle To Curb; Permit
10-10-8: Parking Adjacent To Schools
10-10-9: Parking Prohibited On Narrow Streets
10-10-10: Stopping Or Parking Prohibited; Signs Required
10-10-11: Unlawful Parking; Peddlers, Vendors
10-10-12: Emergency Parking Signs
10-10-13: Authority To Establish Loading Zones
10-10-14: Curb Markings Indicating No Parking
10-10-15: Effect Of Permission To Load Or Unload
10-10-16: Standing For Loading Or Unloading Only
10-10-17: Standing In Passenger Loading Zone
10-10-18: Standing In Alley
10-10-19: Bus Zones To Be Established
10-10-20: Signs Designating Limited Parking Required
10-10-21: Parking Time Limited On Certain Enumerated Streets
10-10-22: Parking Time Limited On Certain City Parking Lots
10-10-23: All Night Parking Prohibited
10-10-23.1: Parking In Parks And Other Recreational Areas
10-10-24: Parking Time Limited On Certain Enumerated Streets
10-10-25: Approval Of Department Of Public Works
10-10-26: Restrictions On Parking Of Commercial Motor Trucks, Truck Tractors
And/Or “Semi” Trailers
10-10-27: Exceptions To Restrictions
10-10-28: Parking Space Markings
10-10-29: Unauthorized Painting Of Curbs
10-10-30: Truck-Trailer Parking Prohibited (Rep. by Ord. 2005-10, 11-7-2005)
10-10-31: Parking Prohibited In Designated Fire Lanes
10-10-32: Handicapped And Small Car Parking Stalls In City Owned Off Street
Parking Lots
10-10-33: Recreational Vehicles, Boats, And Trailers
10-10-34: Definitions
10-10-35: Enforcement
10-10-1: APPLICATION OF REGULATIONS:
   (A)   The provisions of this title prohibiting the stopping, standing or
parking of a vehicle shall apply at all times or at those times herein
specified, except when it is necessary to stop a vehicle to avoid conflict with
other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a police officer or
official traffic control device.
   (B)   The provisions of this title imposing a time limit on standing or
parking shall not relieve any person from the duty to observe other and more
restrictive provisions of the state Vehicle Code or this code, prohibiting or
limiting the standing or parking of vehicles in specified places or at
specified times. (Ord. 406, 6-6-1949)
10-10-2: STANDING IN PARKWAYS PROHIBITED:
No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle within any parkway. (Ord. 406, 6-
6-1949)
10-10-3: USE OF STREETS FOR STORAGE OF VEHICLES PROHIBITED:
   (A)   No person who owns or has possession, custody or control of any
vehicle shall park the vehicle upon any street or alley for more than a
consecutive period of seventy two (72) hours.
   (B)   In the event a vehicle is parked or left standing upon a street or
alley in excess of a consecutive period of seventy two (72) hours, any member
of the police department authorized by the chief of police may remove the
vehicle from the street or alley in the manner and subject to the requirements
of sections 22651 and 22652 of the Vehicle Code. (Ord. 738, 12-15-1975)
10-10-4: PARKING FOR CERTAIN PURPOSES PROHIBITED:
No person shall park a vehicle upon any roadway for the principal purpose of:
   (A)   Displaying the vehicle for sale.
   (B)   Washing, greasing, or repairing the vehicle except repairs
necessitated by an emergency. (Ord. 406, 6-6-1949)
10-10-5: SIGNS OR MARKINGS INDICATING ANGLE PARKING:
   (A)   Whenever any provision of this title or other law of the city
designates and describes any street or portion thereof upon which angle parking
shall be permitted, the traffic engineer shall mark or sign the street
indicating the angle at which vehicles shall be parked. (Ord. 406, 6-6-1949)
   (B)   When signs or markings are in place indicating angle parking as herein
provided, no person shall park or stand a vehicle other than at the angle to
the curb or edge of the roadway indicated by such signs or markings, with the
front wheel closest to the curb within six inches (6") to said curb. (Ord. 746,
5-3-1976)
   (C)   Angle parking shall be permitted upon those streets and parts of
streets described in section
10-10-6 of this chapter. (Ord. 406, 6-6-1949)
10-10-6: ANGLE PARKING DESIGNATED ON CERTAIN STREETS:
In accordance with section
10-10-5 of this chapter, and when signs or markings are in place giving notice
thereof, drivers of vehicles may stand or park a vehicle only as indicated by
such marks or signs on the following streets or portions thereof:
The southwesterly side of West Front Street from North Street to Second Street;
The northeasterly side of East Front Street from a point one hundred thirty
feet (130') south of the centerline of North Street to a point two hundred
twenty feet (220') north of the centerline of Third Street;
Both sides of High Street from North Street to Second Street;
The northwesterly side of Second Street from Tucker Street to East Front
Street;
The southeasterly side of Second Street from Tucker Street to East Front
Street;
Both sides of First Street from High Street to East Front Street;
The south side of Stillman Street from a point three hundred thirty feet (330')
east of the centerline of Olive Street to a point forty feet (40') west of the
centerline of Dockery Avenue;
The west side of Mitchell Street from a point eight hundred ninety feet (890')
north of the centerline of Nebraska Avenue to a point one thousand two hundred
forty feet (1,240') north of the centerline of Nebraska Avenue;
The southwesterly side of East Front Street from a point forty seven feet (47')
south of the centerline of First Street to a point two hundred twenty one feet
(221') north of the centerline of Second Street;
Both sides of Grant Street from First Street to North Street;
Both sides of Evergreen between Locust and the Mill Ditch alignment;
Both sides of Sylvia Street from First Street to Third Street;
Pea Soup Andersen Boulevard between State Highway 43 and Auto Mall Drive;
The north side of Art Gonzales Parkway from a point forty feet (40') north of
the centerline of Highland Avenue to a point two hundred seventy four feet
(274') north of the centerline of Highland Avenue;
The southeasterly side of First Street from Bauder Street to Highway 99; and
Both sides of First Street to a point one hundred fifty six feet (156')
northeasterly of the centerline of High Street. (Ord. 2009-9, 12-7-2009)
10-10-7: LOADING OR UNLOADING AT ANGLE TO CURB; PERMIT:
The traffic engineer is authorized to issue special permits to permit the
backing of a vehicle to the curb for the purpose of loading or unloading
merchandise or materials subject to the terms and conditions of the permit. The
permits may be issued either to the owner or lessee of real property or to the
owner of the vehicle and shall grant to the person the privilege as therein
stated and authorized herein, and it shall be unlawful for any permittee or
other person to violate any of the special terms or conditions of any such
permit. (Ord. 406, 6-6-1949)
10-10-8: PARKING ADJACENT TO SCHOOLS:
   (A)   The traffic engineer is hereby authorized to erect signs indicating no
parking upon that side of any street adjacent to any school property when such
parking would, in his opinion, interfere with traffic or create a hazardous
situation.
   (B)   When official signs are erected indicating no parking upon that side
of a street adjacent to any school property, no person shall park a vehicle in
any such designated place. (Ord. 406, 6-6-1949)
10-10-9: PARKING PROHIBITED ON NARROW STREETS:
   (A)   The traffic engineer is hereby authorized to place signs or markings
indicating no parking upon any street when the width of the roadway does not
exceed twenty feet (20'), or upon one side of a street as indicated by such
signs or markings when the width of the roadway does not exceed thirty feet
(30').
   (B)   When official signs or markings prohibiting parking are erected upon
narrow streets as authorized herein, no person shall park a vehicle upon any
such street in violation of any sign or marking. (Ord. 406, 6-6-1949)
10-10-10: STOPPING OR PARKING PROHIBITED; SIGNS REQUIRED:
The traffic engineer shall appropriately sign or mark the following places and
when so signed or marked no person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle in any
of the following places:
   (A)   At any place within twenty feet (20') of a point on the curb
immediately opposite the midblock end of a safety zone.
   (B)   At any place within twenty five feet (25') of an intersection in the
central traffic district or in any business district except that a bus may stop
at a designated bus stop.
   (C)   Within twenty five feet (25') of the approach to any traffic signal,
boulevard stop sign, or official electric flashing device.
   (D)   At any place where the traffic engineer determines that it is
necessary in order to eliminate unusual traffic hazard. (Ord. 406, 6-6-1949)
   (E)   It shall be unlawful for any person to stop, stand, or park a vehicle
on the northeasterly side of Whitson Street from Thompson Avenue southeasterly
to a point of two hundred fifty feet (250') from the easterly line of Thompson
Avenue. (Ord. 619, 9-6-66)
   (F)   At any place on the northwesterly side of Second Street between the
north bound on-ramp and the south bound off-ramp of Freeway 99; and, at any
place on the southeasterly side of Second Street between the south bound on-
ramp and the north bound off-ramp of Freeway 99. (Ord. 691, 2-16-71, eff. 3-16-
71)
   (G)   On both sides of Floral Avenue between Whitson and Highland Avenue.
(Ord. 814, 6-2-80)
   (H)   At any place on the north and south sides of Huntsman Avenue between
Thompson Avenue and Wright Street, which shall also be a tow away zone. (Ord.
820, 12-15-80)
   (I)   On the north side of Floral Avenue between the centerline of the south
bound off ramp of Freeway 99 and the City limit line westerly thereof. (Ord.
826, 6-1-81)
   (J)   On the north side of Rose Avenue between Olive and Orange Avenues.
(Ord. 850, 1-3-83)
10-10-11: UNLAWFUL PARKING; PEDDLERS, VENDORS:
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in this Section no person shall stand or
park any vehicle, wagon or pushcart from which goods, wares, merchandise,
fruits, vegetables or food stuffs are sold, displayed, solicited, offered for
sale, bartered or exchanged, or any lunch wagon, eating car or vehicle, on any
portion of any street within the City, except that such vehicles, wagons or
pushcarts may stand or park only at the request of a bona fide purchaser for a
period of time not to exceed ten (10) minutes at any one place. The provisions
of this subsection shall not apply to persons delivering articles upon order
of, or by agreement with a customer from a store or other fixed place of
business or distribution.
   (B)   No person shall park or stand on any street, any lunch wagon, eating
cart, vehicle or pushcart from which tamales, peanuts, popcorn, candy or other
articles of food are sold or offered for sale without first obtaining a written
permit to do so from the Council which shall designate the specific location in
which the cart shall stand.
   (C)   No person shall park or stand any vehicle or wagon used or intended to
be used in the transportation of property for hire on any street while awaiting
patronage for such vehicle or wagon without first obtaining a written permit to
do so from the Council which shall designate the specific location where the
vehicle may stand.
   (D)   Whenever any permit is granted under the provisions of this Section
and a particular location to park or stand is specified therein, no person
shall park or stand any vehicle, wagon, or pushcart on any location other than
as designated in the permit. In the event that the holder of any such permit is
convicted in any court of competent jurisdiction for violating any of the
provisions of this Section, the permit shall be forthwith revoked by the
Council upon the filing of the record of the conviction with the Council, and
no permit shall thereafter be issued to the person until six (6) months have
elapsed from the date of the revocation.
10-10-12: EMERGENCY PARKING SIGNS:
   (A)   Whenever the Traffic Engineer shall determine that an emergency
traffic congestion is likely to result from the holding of public or private
assemblages, gatherings, or functions, or for other reasons, the Traffic
Engineer shall have power and authority to order temporary signs to be erected
or posted indicating that operation, parking or standing of vehicles is
prohibited on such streets and alleys as the Traffic Engineer shall direct
during the time such temporary signs are in place. The signs shall remain in
place only during the existence of the emergency and the Traffic Engineer shall
cause the signs to be removed promptly thereafter.
   (B)   When signs authorized by the provisions of this Section are in place
giving notice thereof, no person shall operate, park or stand any vehicle
contrary to the directions and provisions of the signs. (Ord. 406, 6-6-1949)
10-10-13: AUTHORITY TO ESTABLISH LOADING ZONES:
   (A)   The Traffic Engineer is hereby authorized to determine and to mark
loading zones and passenger loading zones as follows:
      1.   At any place in the central traffic district or any business
district.
      2.   Elsewhere in front of the entrance to any place of business or in
front of any hall or place used for the purpose of public assembly.
   (B)   In no event shall more than one-half (1/2) of the total curb length in
any block be reserved for loading zone purposes.
   (C)   Loading zones shall be indicated by a yellow paint line stenciled with
black letters, "Loading Only", upon the top of all curbs within the zones.
   (D)   Passenger loading zones shall be indicated by a white line stenciled
with black letters, "Passenger Loading Only", upon the top of all curbs in the
zones. (Ord. 406, 6-6-1949)
10-10-14: CURB MARKINGS INDICATING NO PARKING:
   (A)   The Traffic Engineer is hereby authorized, subject to the provisions
and limitations of this Title to place, and when required herein shall place,
the following curb markings to indicate parking or standing regulations, and
the curb markings shall have the meanings as herein set forth:
      1.   Red shall mean no stopping, standing or parking at any time except
as permitted by the Vehicle Code, and except that a bus may stop in a red zone
marked or signed as a bus zone.
      2.   Yellow shall mean no stopping, standing or parking at any time
between eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. and six o'clock (6:00) P.M. of any day except
Sundays and holidays for any purpose other than the loading or unloading of
passengers or materials; provided, that the loading or unloading of passengers
shall not consume more than three (3) minutes nor the loading or unloading of
materials more than twenty (20) minutes.
      3.   White shall mean no stopping, standing or parking for any purpose
other than loading or unloading of passengers which shall not exceed three (3)
minutes and such restrictions shall apply between eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. and
six o'clock (6:00) P.M. of any day except Sundays and holidays and except as
follows: (Ord. 406, 6-6-1949)
         (a)   When the zone is in front of a hotel or in front of a mailbox,
the restrictions shall apply at all times. (Ord. 746, 5-3-1976)
         (b)   When the zone is in front of a theater, the restrictions shall
apply at all times except when the theater is closed. (Ord. 406, 6-6-1949)
      4.   Green shall mean no standing or parking for longer than the time
posted by an adjacent sign, at any time, according to the directive of the
Director of Public Works. (Ord. 97-7, 10-20-1997)
   (B)   When the Traffic Engineer, as authorized under this Title, has caused
curb markings to be placed, no person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle
adjacent to any such legible curb marking in violation of any of the provisions
of this Section. (Ord. 406, 6-6-1949)
10-10-15: EFFECT OF PERMISSION TO LOAD OR UNLOAD:
   (A)   Permission herein granted to stop or stand a vehicle for purposes of
loading or unloading of materials shall apply only to commercial vehicles and
shall not extend beyond the time necessary therefor, and in no event for more
than twenty (20) minutes.
   (B)   The loading or unloading of materials shall apply only to commercial
deliveries, also the delivery or pickup of express and parcel post packages and
United States mail.
   (C)   Permission herein granted to stop or park for purposes of loading or
unloading passengers shall include the loading or unloading of personal baggage
but shall not extend beyond the time necessary therefor and in no event for
more than three (3) minutes.
   (D)   Within the total time limits herein specified, the provisions of this
Section shall be enforced so as to accommodate necessary and reasonable loading
or unloading but without permitting abuse of the privileges hereby granted.
(Ord. 406, 6-6-1949)
10-10-16: STANDING FOR LOADING OR UNLOADING ONLY:
No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle in any yellow loading zone for
any purpose other than loading or unloading passengers or material for such
time as is permitted in Section
10-10-15 of this Chapter. (Ord. 406, 6-6-1949)
10-10-17: STANDING IN PASSENGER LOADING ZONE:
No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle in any passenger loading zone for
any purpose other than the loading or unloading of passengers for such time as
is specified in Section
10-10-15 of this Chapter. (Ord. 406, 6-6-1949)
10-10-18: STANDING IN ALLEY:
No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle for any purpose other than the
loading or unloading of persons or materials in any alley. (Ord. 406, 6-6-1949)
10-10-19: BUS ZONES TO BE ESTABLISHED:
   (A)   The City Engineer is hereby authorized to establish bus zones opposite
curb space for the loading and unloading of buses or common carriers of
passengers and to determine the location thereof subject to the directives and
limitations set forth herein.
   (B)   The word "Bus" as used in this Section shall mean any motor bus, motor
coach, trackless trolley coach, or passenger stage used as a common carrier of
passengers.
   (C)   No bus zone shall exceed eighty feet (80') in length, except that when
satisfactory evidence has been presented to the Traffic Engineer showing the
necessity therefor, the Traffic Engineer may extend bus zones not to exceed a
total length of one hundred twenty five feet (125').
   (D)   Bus zones shall normally be established on the far side of an
intersection.
   (E)   The Traffic Engineer shall paint a red line stencil with white letters
"No Standing", together with the words "Bus Zone" upon the top or side of all
curbs and places specified as a bus zone.
   (F)   No person shall stop, stand or park any vehicle except a bus in a bus
zone. (Ord. 406, 6-6-49)
10-10-20: SIGNS DESIGNATING LIMITED PARKING REQUIRED:
When authorized signs are in place giving notice thereof no person shall stop,
stand or park any vehicle upon any of the streets or City parking lots
enumerated as follows:
   (A)   In Section
10-10-21 and
10-10-22 hereof for a period of time longer than two (2) hours at any time
between the hours of eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. and six o'clock (6:00) P.M. of
any day, except Sunday and holidays. (Ord. 580, 12-2-63)
10-10-21: PARKING TIME LIMITED ON CERTAIN ENUMERATED STREETS:
In accordance with Section
10-10-20, parking is limited to two (2) hours between the hours of eight
o'clock (8:00) A.M. and six o'clock (6:00) P.M. of any day, except Sundays and
holidays, upon any of the following enumerated streets: (Ord. 842, 6-7-82)
Both sides of High Street between Arrants Street and Second Street. (Ord. 889,
9-15-86)
The southwesterly side of Mill Street between Second Street and Selma Street.
The southwesterly side of Tucker Street from Second Street to a point two
hundred thirty nine feet (239') southeasterly of the center line of Second
Street.
The northeasterly side of East Front Street from North Street to Third Street.
The southwesterly side of East Front Street from the center line of First
Street north for a distance of two hundred seventy four feet (274').
The westerly side of Second Street between High Street and East Front Street.
The easterly side of Second Street between Mill Street and East Front Street.
Both sides of First Street between Grant Street and East Front Street.
The west side of Wright Street and from Barbara Street for a distance of two
hundred eighty five feet (285').
The west side of McCall Avenue from High Street north to the first alley. (Ord.
842, 6-7-82; amd. Ord. 898, 2-1-88)
Both sides of Arrants Street between Grant Street and McCall Avenue.
Both sides of Grant Street between North and Arrants Streets.
Both sides of Lee Street between Arrants Street and the first alley north of
Arrants Street. (Ord. 870, 7-16-84)
Both sides of North Street between High and Grant Streets. (Ord. 884, 4-7-86)
The north side of Arrants Street between Lee and Wright Streets.
The south side of Arrants Street between Wright Street and a point
approximately eighty feet (80') west of Grant Street. (Ord. 889, 9-15-86)
The southerly side of East Front Street between First Street and Second Street.
(Ord. 901, 6-6-88)
10-10-22: PARKING TIME LIMITED ON CERTAIN CITY PARKING LOTS:
Parking is limited to two (2) hours between the hours of eight o'clock (8:00)
A.M. and six o'clock (6:00) P.M. of any day except Sundays and holidays upon
any of the following enumerated City parking lots:
   (A)   The north one-half (1/2) of the City parking lot located on the
southeast corner of High and First Streets.
   (B)   The north first row of parking stalls (ten [10] stalls) on the City
parking lot located on the southeast corner of First Street and East Front
Street. (Ord. 842, 6-7-82)
10-10-23: ALL NIGHT PARKING PROHIBITED:
No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle on any street in the central
traffic district for a period of time longer than thirty (30) minutes between
the hours of two o'clock (2:00) A.M. and six o'clock (6:00) A.M. of any day.
This section shall not apply to the vehicle of any regularly licensed physician
when actually engaged in making professional calls. (Ord. 746, 5-3-1976)
10-10-23.1: PARKING IN PARKS AND OTHER RECREATIONAL AREAS:
No person shall drive or park a vehicle in a public park or recreation area,
except by special permit issued by the police department. Authorized signs
shall be posted at all entrances to parks or recreation areas giving notice of
this section. (Ord. 694, 7-3-1972, eff. 8-4-1972)
10-10-24: PARKING TIME LIMITED ON CERTAIN ENUMERATED STREETS:
No stopping, standing or parking shall be permitted on the following streets
between ten thirty o'clock (10:30) P.M. and five o'clock (5:00) A.M.:
Olive Avenue, both sides between Rose and Stillman Avenues.
Stillman Street, south side only between Orange and Dockery Avenues. (Ord. 850,
1-3-1983)
10-10-25: APPROVAL OF DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS:
   (A)   Any provision of this title which regulates traffic or delegates the
regulation of traffic upon state highways in any way for which the approval of
the department of public works is required by state law, shall cease to be
operative six (6) months after receipt of the council of written notice of
withdrawal of approval of the department of public works.
   (B)   Whenever this title delegates authority to a city officer, or
authorizes action by the council to regulate traffic upon a state highway in
any way which by state law requires the prior approval of the department of
public works, no such officer shall exercise such authority nor shall such
action by the council be effective with respect to any state highway without
the prior approval in writing of the department of public works when and to the
extent required by division 9 and division 11 of the Vehicle Code. (Ord. 580,
12-2-1963)
10-10-26: RESTRICTIONS ON PARKING OF COMMERCIAL TRUCKS, TRUCK TRACTORS AND/OR
“SEMI” TRAILERS:
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to place, or have placed, park, keep, or maintain
any commercial motor truck (as defined by California Vehicle Code section 410),
truck tractor (as defined by California Vehicle Code section 655), and/or
"Semi" vehicle, as defined in Section
10-10-35 of this Chapter, on any residential street.
   (B)   No commercial motor truck, truck tractor, or "Semi" vehicle shall be
placed, parked, kept, or maintained in an alley, right of way, or highway,
other than a state highway, in the City of Selma for a period exceeding two (2)
hours, except in designated areas as set forth in Section
10-10-27 of this Chapter. (Ord. 2005-10, 11-7-2005; Ord. 2021-4, 10-4-2021)
10-10-27: EXCEPTIONS TO RESTRICTIONS:
This Chapter shall not apply under the following conditions:
   (A)   Any vehicle as defined under this C making pickups or deliveries of
goods, wares and merchandise from or to any building or structure or for the
purpose of delivering materials to be used in the actual and bona fide repair,
alteration, remodeling, or construction of any building or structure for which
a building permit has previously been obtained. This exception shall apply only
to any such vehicles that are attended, and shall not extend beyond the time
necessary therefore, and in no event for more than twelve (12) hours;
   (B)   Any vehicle as defined in this Chapter parked in connection with, and
in the aid of, the performance of a service to or on a property in the block in
which such vehicle is parked;
   (C)   Any school or passenger bus under the jurisdiction of a recognized
school district;
   (D)   Any vehicle as defined in this Chapter owned by a city, county, state,
public entity or licensed contractor engaged in the installation, maintenance,
or repair of any public property, utility or highway;
   (E)   Any authorized emergency vehicle as defined by the California Vehicle
Code;
   (F)   For no more than two (2) additional hours when emergency repairs are
in progress, and, the vehicle is attended.
   (G)   For any tow truck designed to tow vehicles having a manufacturer's
gross vehicle weight rating of twelve thousand (12,000) pounds or more, and
which is in the act of towing such vehicle.
   (H)   "Pickup trucks" as defined in California Vehicle Code Section 471
Furthermore, the restrictions set forth in section
10-10-26 of this chapter shall not apply to the parking of trucks, truck
tractors, and trailers as defined with gross weight in excess of five (5) tons
where such parking is one hundred feet (100') back from the following
intersections:
   The west side of East Front Street from Center Street to Nebraska Avenue.
   Both sides of West Front Street from Third Street to Golden State Boulevard.
   Both sides of Park Street from Golden State Boulevard to McCall Avenue.
   Both sides of Todd Street from Golden State Boulevard to McCall Avenue.
   Signs to this effect shall be posted, as appropriate.
(Ord. 2005-10, 11-7-2005; Ord. 2021-4, 10-4-2021)
10-10-28: PARKING SPACE MARKINGS:
The city traffic engineer is authorized to install and maintain parking space
markings to indicate parking spaces adjacent to curbings where authorized
parking is permitted. When such parking space markings are placed on the
highway, subject to other and more restrictive limitations, no vehicle shall be
stopped, left standing or parked other than within a single space unless the
size or shape of such vehicle makes compliance impossible. (Ord. 746, 5-3-1976)
10-10-29: UNAUTHORIZED PAINTING OF CURBS:
No person, unless authorized by this city, shall paint any street or curb
surface; provided, however, that this section shall not apply to the painting
of numbers on a curb surface by any person who has complied with the provisions
of any resolution or ordinance of this city pertaining thereto. (Ord. 746, 5-3-
1976)
10-10-30: TRUCK-TRAILER PARKING PROHIBITED:
(Rep. by Ord. 2005-10, 11-7-2005)
10-10-31: PARKING PROHIBITED IN DESIGNATED FIRE LANES:
All private access roadways for fire apparatus and other emergency vehicles
shall not be obstructed in any manner. "NO PARKING" signs not less than
seventeen inches by twenty two inches (17"x22") in size shall be posted and
maintained by the property owner as required by the fire chief. Curbing
adjacent to such access roadways shall be painted as required by the fire
chief. The owner or person in lawful possession of the property over which the
private access roadway for fire apparatus and other emergency vehicles exists
shall cause the removal of a vehicle parked on such property in violation of
this section.
   (A)   The "NO PARKING" signs required by this section shall contain the
words "NO PARKING" in letters not less than four inches (4") in height. Each
sign shall also contain in capital letters at least three inches (3") high the
words "TOW AWAY". Each sign shall contain the words "SELMA POLICE DEPARTMENT"
in capital letters at least one inch (1") in height and the telephone number of
that department in numerals at least one inch (1") in height. Each sign shall
bear the name of the owner or person in lawful possession of the property at
the time of any removal of any vehicle and who has authorized the removal of
any vehicle from such private property. Such name shall be in capital letters
one inch (1") high.
   (B)   No person shall open, move, tow or take possession of any vehicle on
private property or attach any towing equipment thereto or take possession of
any personal property contained therein or attached thereto, unless and until
he shall have given notice to the police department of his intention so to do
in such manner as may be specified by the chief of police. Any person causing
removal of vehicles in accordance with the provisions of this section shall
also comply with the provisions of California Vehicle Code section 22658 and
any amendments thereto. (Ord. 815, 12-15-1980)
10-10-32: HANDICAPPED AND SMALL CAR PARKING STALLS IN CITY OWNED OFF STREET
PARKING LOTS:
   (A)   No person shall park a vehicle in a parking stall that is designated,
signed, and marked for handicapped parking, in a city parking lot, unless such
person is handicapped and carries proper identification in the vehicle as
provided by the state.
   (B)   No person shall park a vehicle other than a small car in a parking
stall that is designated, signed, and marked for small car parking in a city
parking lot. (Ord. 819, 10-6-1980)
10-10-33: RECREATIONAL VEHICLES, BOATS, AND TRAILERS:
Recreational vehicles, fifth wheel trailers, boats, and trailers (collectively
referred to as Recreation Vehicles in this section) are permitted subject to
the conditions set forth below.
   (A)   Habitation: Recreational Vehicles shall not be used for sleeping or
habitation, unless permitted per Section
5-5-2 of the Selma Municipal Code.
   (B)   Exceptions: A Recreational Vehicle may be parked on a residential
street for purposes of loading and unloading for up to seventy-two (72) hours
in any month.
   (C)   Commercial Vehicles: Commercial rated vehicles, as defined by
California Vehicle Code section 260 and not commonly found in residential
areas, are prohibited. (Ord. 2021-4, 10-4-2021)
10-10-34: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this Section, the following definitions shall apply:
ATTENDED: Means that the driver or operator of the vehicle or trailer must be
physically present, or within the reasonable proximity of the vehicle. In the
case of a delivery or transport vehicle, "attended" shall mean that the driver
or operator of the vehicle shall be in the act of delivering or accepting the
merchandise to or from the customer, or obtaining signatures from the customer
or providing the customer with any necessary receipts or other documentation of
the transaction.
SEMI: Means any vehicle having a manufacturer's gross vehicle weight rating of
twelve thousand (12,000) pounds or more, or any trailer or semitrailer, as
defined by California Vehicle Code section 550, 630, 635 or 636 used and
maintained for commercial purposes, and designed for use with, or actually used
in conjunction with a semi, whether licensed or unlicensed. (Ord. 2021-4, 10-4-
2021)
10-10-35: ENFORCEMENT:
The following officers and employees of the City are hereby designated as
enforcement officers and authorized to issue citations for enforcement of this
Chapter: Chief of Police and his/her designee(s); Community Development
Director and his/her designee(s); any peace officer and code enforcement
official. (Ord. 2021-4, 10-4-2021)
CHAPTER 11
RESTRICTED USE OF CERTAIN STREETS
SECTION:
10-11-1: Certain Vehicles Prohibited in Central Traffic District
10-11-2: Vehicles Used for Advertising Purposes
10-11-3: Truck Routes
10-11-4: Commercial Vehicles Prohibited From Using Certain Streets (Rep. by
Ord. 746, 5-3-76)
10-11-1: CERTAIN VEHICLES PROHIBITED IN CENTRAL TRAFFIC DISTRICT:
   (A)   No person shall operate any of the following vehicles in the central
traffic district between the hours of 8:00 A.M. and 6:00 P.M. of any day:
      1.   Any freight vehicle more than eight and one-half feet (8½') in
width, with load, or any freight vehicle so loaded that any part of its load
extends more than twenty feet (20') to the front or rear of the vehicle.
      2.   Any vehicle carrying building material that has not been loaded, or
is not to be unloaded, at some point within the central traffic district.
      3.   Any freight vehicle with a trailer.
      4.   Any vehicle conveying refuse, rubbish, garbage or dirt.
      5.   Any vehicle carrying crude or fuel oil.
   (B)   Provided that the Chief of Police may by written permit authorize the
operation of any such vehicle for the purpose of making necessary emergency
deliveries to or from points within the central district.
10-11-2: VEHICLES USED FOR ADVERTISING PURPOSES:
No person shall operate or drive any vehicle used for advertising purposes or
any advertising vehicle equipped with a sound amplifying or loud speaking
device upon any street or alley at any time within the central traffic
district. (Ord. 406, 6-6-49)
10-11-3: TRUCK ROUTES:
   (A)   Whenever any provision of this Title designates and describes any
street or portion thereof as a street the use of which is permitted by any
vehicle exceeding a maximum gross weight limit of four (4) tons, the Traffic
Engineer is hereby authorized to designate the street by appropriate signs as
"Truck Traffic Routes" for the movement of vehicles exceeding a maximum gross
weight limit of four (4) tons. (Ord. 702, 7-2-73, Eff. 8-1-73)
   (B)   When any such truck routes are established and designated by
appropriate signs the operator of any vehicle exceeding a maximum gross weight
limit of four (4) tons shall drive on such routes and none other except when
necessary to traverse another street to a destination for the purpose of
loading or unloading, but then only by such deviation from the nearest truck
route as is reasonably necessary and providing further that there shall be no
truck loading of agricultural products on City streets. The provisions of this
Section shall not apply to passenger buses under the jurisdiction of the Public
Utilities Commission or any vehicle owned by a public utility while necessarily
in use in the construction, installation, or repair of any public utility.
(Ord. 746, 5-3-76)
   (C)   Those streets and parts of streets described as follows are hereby
declared to be truck traffic routes for the movement of vehicles exceeding a
maximum gross weight of four (4) tons:
First Street from Whitson Street to McCall Avenue;
McCall Avenue from Floral Avenue to the northerly City limits;
Second Street from Nebraska Avenue to Whitson Street;
McCall Avenue from Whitson Street to the southerly City limits;
Rose Avenue from McCall Avenue to the easterly City limits;
Floral Avenue from West Front Street to Dockery Avenue;
West Front Street from the northerly City limits to the southerly City limits;
Whitson Street from the northerly City limits to the southerly City limits.
(Ord. 702, 7-2-73, Eff. 8-1-73)
Chandler Street from Arrants Street to Thompson Avenue.
Arrants Street from West Front Street to Chandler Street.
Thompson Avenue from Chandler Street to Floral Avenue. (Ord. 761, 11-1-76)
10-11-4: COMMERCIAL VEHICLES PROHIBITED FROM USING CERTAIN STREETS:
(Rep. by Ord. 746, 5-3-76)
CHAPTER 12
BICYCLES
SECTION:
10-12-1: License Required
10-12-2: Application; Issuance
10-12-3: License Plates; Registration Cards
10-12-4: Secondhand Bicycle Dealers
10-12-5: Transfer of Ownership
10-12-6: Destruction of Bicycle Number Prohibited
10-12-7: License Fee
10-12-8: Operation Without License; Penalty
10-12-9: Renewal of Registration
10-12-10: Delinquent Fees; Lien
10-12-11: Sidewalk Riding Prohibited
10-12-1: LICENSE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to operate or use upon any of the streets,
alleys or public highways of the City any bicycle propelled wholly or in part
by muscular power, without first obtaining from the Chief of Police a license
therefor. (Ord. 443, 5-19-52)
10-12-2: APPLICATION; ISSUANCE:
The Chief of Police is hereby authorized and directed to issue, upon written
application, bicycle licenses for a three (3) year period from the date of
issue, beginning on the first day of January of the issuing year. The licenses
when issued shall entitle the licensee to operate the bicycle for which the
license has been issued upon all the streets, alleys and public highways,
exclusive of sidewalks, thereof, in the City.
10-12-3: LICENSE PLATES; REGISTRATION CARDS:
The City shall issue, through the Chief of Police, uniform license plates and
tags, together with registration cards. It shall be the duty of the Chief of
Police to keep a record of the license number, the serial number of the
bicycle, the make, type and model of the bicycle, and the name and address of
the licensee. (Ord. 726, 1-20-75)
10-12-4: SECONDHAND BICYCLE DEALERS:
All persons engaged in the business of buying secondhand bicycles are hereby
required to make daily reports to the Chief of Police, giving the name and
address of the person from whom each bicycle is purchased, the description of
each bicycle purchased, the frame thereof, and the number of the metallic
license plate found thereon, if any. All persons engaged in the business of
selling new or secondhand bicycles are hereby required to make a daily report
to the Chief of Police, giving a list of all sales made by the dealers, which
list shall include the name and address of each person to whom sold, the kind
of bicycle sold, together with a description and the frame number thereof, and
the number of the metallic license plate attached thereto, if any.
10-12-5: TRANSFER OF OWNERSHIP:
It shall be the duty of every person who sells or transfers ownership of any
bicycle to report the sale or transfer by returning to the Chief of Police the
registration card issued to the person as licensee thereof, together with the
name and address of the person to whom the bicycle was sold or transferred, and
such report shall be made within five (5) days of the date of the sale or
transfer.
It shall be the duty of the purchaser or transferee of the bicycle to apply for
a transfer of registration therefor within five (5) days of the sale or
transfer.
10-12-6: DESTRUCTION OF BICYCLE NUMBER PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to wilfully or maliciously remove, destroy,
mutilate or alter the number of any bicycle frame licensed pursuant to this
Chapter. It shall also be unlawful for any person to remove, destroy, mutilate
or time alter any license plate, seal or registration card during the time in
which the license plate, seal or registration card is operative; provided,
however, nothing herein contained shall be construed as prohibiting the Chief
of Police from stamping numbers on the frames of bicycles on which no serial
number can be found, or on which the number is illegible or insufficient for
identification purposes. (Ord. 494; 2-18-57)
10-12-7: LICENSE FEE:
The fee to be paid for each bicycle shall be one dollar fifty cents ($1.50) for
each three (3) year period, and shall be paid in advance. Pursuant to Section
10-12-5 of this Chapter the license may be transferred when the ownership of
the bicycle is transferred, and a fee of twenty five cents (25¢) shall be paid
for the registration of the transfer. A fee of fifty cents (50¢) shall be paid
for a duplicate registration card or license plate at the time of filing
application for the same. All fees collected under this Chapter shall be paid
into the office of the Clerk and by the Clerk deposited in the General Fund of
the City. (Ord. 726; 1-20-75)
10-12-8: OPERATION WITHOUT LICENSE; PENALTY:
Whenever any bicycle is operated upon any street, alley or highway within the
City without the registration fee having first been paid as required by this
Chapter such fee shall be delinquent.
   (A)   A penalty shall be added upon any application of annual renewal of
registration made on or after February 15 of any year unless the bicycle has
not been operated on the highways, streets or alleys, since the expiration
date. (Ord. 494; 2-18-57)
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in subsection (A) of this Section, if any
fee is not paid within thirty (30) days after the same becomes delinquent a
penalty shall be added thereto.
   (C)   In every event the penalty shall be equal to the fee and shall be
collected therewith. (Ord. 443; 5-19-52)
10-12-9: RENEWAL OF REGISTRATION:
A penalty shall be added upon any application of annual renewal of registration
made on or after July 1 of each year unless the bicycle has not been operated
on the highways, streets or alleys, since the expiration date. (Ord. 494; 2-18-
57)
10-12-10: DELINQUENT FEES; LIEN:
Every registration or transfer fee and any penalty added thereto, from the date
the same became due, shall constitute a lien upon the bicycle for which due.
   (A)   The Chief of Police shall collect the fee and penalty by seizure of
the bicycle for which the same is due from the person in possession thereof, if
any, and by the sale of the bicycle, such sale to be conducted and carried out
by the Chief of Police in the same manner as is provided by law for the seizure
and sale of personal property by the Assessor for the collection of taxes due
on personal property.
   (B)   Every lien and every cause of action for any delinquent fee or penalty
under this Chapter shall expire at the expiration of one (1) year from the date
any such fee became due.
   (C)   No fee when paid and receipted shall be returnable. (Ord. 443; 5-19-
52)
10-12-11: SIDEWALK RIDING PROHIBITED:
When signs are posted in the area, it shall be unlawful for any person to ride
a bicycle upon any public sidewalk in the Central Business District. The
Central Business District is hereby designated as that area bounded as follows:
"Commencing at the intersection of McCall and Arrants Streets, thence
Southeasterly to North Street; thence Southwesterly to Sylvia Street; thence
Southeasterly to McCall; thence North to Whitson Street; thence Southeasterly
to W. Front Street; thence Northwesterly to the Southeasterly line of Orange
Avenue projected Southwesterly; thence Northeasterly to Mill Street; thence
Northwesterly to McCall Street; thence North to Arrants Street, the point of
beginning. Both sides of all streets mentioned are intended to be included
within said Central Business District." (Ord. 641; 2-5-68)
CHAPTER 13
ABANDONED; WRECKED VEHICLES
SECTION:
10-13-1: Definitions
10-13-2: Exceptions
10-13-3: Supplementary Regulation
10-13-4: Administrative Officer
10-13-5: Contract or Franchise Removal Allowed
10-13-6: Costs
10-13-7: Authority to Remove Vehicle
10-13-8: Notice to be Given
10-13-9: Public Hearing
10-13-10: Hearing Officer
10-13-11: Appeal
10-13-12: Disposal
10-13-13: Notice to Department of Motor Vehicles
10-13-14: Collection of Costs
10-13-15: Misdemeanor to Abandon
10-13-16: Misdemeanor to Fail to Remove Vehicle
10-13-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this Chapter:
   VEHICLE: The term "Vehicle" means a device by which any person or property
may be propelled, moved, or drawn upon a highway, except a device moved by
human power or used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks.
   HIGHWAY: The term "Highway" means a way or place of whatever nature,
publicly maintained and open to the use of the public for the purposes of
vehicular travel. Highway includes street.
   PUBLIC PROPERTY: The term "Public Property" does not include "highway".
(Ord. 639; 2-5-68; Eff. 4-1-68)
   OWNER OF THE LAND: The term "Owner of the Land" means the owner of the land
on which the vehicle, or parts thereof, is located, as shown on the last
equalized assessment roll.
   OWNER OF THE VEHICLE: The term "Owner of the Vehicle" means the last
registered owner and legal owner of record.
10-13-2: EXCEPTIONS:
This Chapter shall not apply to:
   (A)   A vehicle or parts thereof which is completely enclosed within a
building in a lawful manner where it is not visible from the street or other
public or private property; or
   (B)   A vehicle or part thereof which is stored or parked in a lawful manner
on private property in connection with the business of a licensed dismantler,
licensed vehicle dealer, a junk dealer, or when such storage or parking is
necessary to the operation of a lawfully conducted business or commercial
enterprise.
   (C)   Nothing in this Section shall authorize the maintenance of a public or
private nuisance as defined under provisions of law other than Chapter 10
(commencing with Section 22650) of Division 11 of the Vehicle Code and this
Chapter. (Ord. 686; 8-2-71; Eff. 9-1-71)
10-13-3: SUPPLEMENTARY REGULATION:
This Chapter is not the exclusive regulation of abandoned, wrecked, dismantled
or inoperative vehicles within the City. It shall supplement and be in addition
to the other regulatory Codes, Statutes, and Ordinances heretofore or hereafter
enacted by the City, the State, or any other legal entity or agency having
jurisdiction.
10-13-4: ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER:
Except as otherwise provided herein, the provisions of this Chapter shall be
administered and enforced by the Chief of Police. In the enforcement of this
Chapter such officer and his deputies may enter upon private or public property
to examine a vehicle or parts thereof, or obtain information as to the identity
of a vehicle and to remove or cause the removal of a vehicle or part thereof
declared to be a nuisance pursuant to this Chapter.
10-13-5: CONTRACT OR FRANCHISE REMOVAL ALLOWED:
When the Council has contracted with or granted a franchise to any person or
persons, such person or persons shall be authorized to enter upon private
property or public property to remove or cause the removal of a vehicle or
parts thereof declared to be a nuisance pursuant to this Chapter.
10-13-6: COSTS:
The Council shall from time to time determine and fix an amount to be assessed
as administrative costs (excluding the actual cost of removal of any vehicle or
part thereof) under this Chapter. (Ord. 639; 2-5-68; Eff. 4-1-68)
10-13-7: AUTHORITY TO REMOVE VEHICLE:
Upon discovering the existence of an abandoned, wrecked, dismantled, or
inoperative vehicle, or parts thereof, on private property or public property
within the City, the Chief of Police shall have the authority to cause the
abatement and removal thereof in accordance with the procedure prescribed
herein.
10-13-8: NOTICE TO BE GIVEN:
A ten (10) day notice of intention to abate and remove the vehicle, or parts
thereof, as a public nuisance shall be mailed by registered mail to the owner
of the land and to the owner of the vehicle, unless the vehicle is in such
condition that identification numbers are not available to determine ownership.
The notices of intention shall be in substantially the following forms:
   NOTICE OF INTENTION TO ABATE AND REMOVE AN ABANDONED, WRECKED, DISMANTLED,
OR INOPERATIVE VEHICLE OR PARTS THEREOF AS A PUBLIC NUISANCE
(Name and Address of owner of the land)
 
As owner shown on the last equalized assessment roll of the land located at
(address), you are hereby notified that the undersigned pursuant to (Section of
Municipal Code) has determined that there exists upon said land an (or parts of
an) abandoned, wrecked, dismantled or inoperative vehicle registered to
                  , license number             , which constitutes a public
nuisance pursuant to the provisions of (Municipal Code Chapter number).
You are hereby notified to abate said nuisance by the removal of said vehicle
(or said parts of a vehicle) within ten (10) days from the date of mailing of
this notice, and upon your failure to do so the same will be abated and removed
by the City and the costs thereof, together with administrative costs, assessed
to you as owner of the land on which said vehicle (or said parts of a vehicle)
is located.
As owner of the land on which said vehicle (or said parts of a vehicle) is
located, you are hereby notified that you may, within ten (10) days after the
mailing of this notice of intention, request a public hearing and if such
request is not received by the (hearing body or officer) within such ten (10)
day period, the (locally designated officer) shall have the authority to abate
and remove said vehicle (or said parts of a vehicle) as a public nuisance and
assess the costs as aforesaid without a public hearing. You may submit a sworn
written statement within such ten (10) day period denying responsibility for
the presence of said vehicle (or said parts of a vehicle) on said land, with
your reasons for denial, and such statements shall be construed as a request
for hearing at which your presence is not required. You may appear in person at
any hearing requested by you or the owner of the vehicle or, in lieu thereof,
may present a sworn written statement as aforesaid in time for consideration at
such hearing.
Notice Mailed __________________ s/_____________________________
         (date)         (locally designated officer)
   NOTICE OF INTENTION TO ABATE AND REMOVE AN ABANDONED, WRECKED, DISMANTLED OR
INOPERATIVE VEHICLE OR PARTS THEREOF AS A PUBLIC NUISANCE
(Name and address of last registered and/or legal owner of record of vehicle -
- notice should be given to both if different)
 
As last registered (and/or legal) owner of record of (description of vehicle-
make, model, license, etc.), you are hereby notified that the undersigned
pursuant to (Section of Municipal Code) has determined that said vehicle (or
parts of a vehicle) exists as an abandoned, wrecked, dismantled or inoperative
vehicle at (describe location on public or private property) and constitutes a
public nuisance pursuant to the provisions of (Municipal Code Chapter number).
You are hereby notified to abate said nuisance by the removal of said vehicle
(or said parts of a vehicle) within ten (10) days from the date of mailing of
this notice.
As registered (and/or legal) owner of record of said vehicle (or said parts of
a vehicle), you are hereby notified that you may, within ten (10) days after
the mailing of this notice of intention, request a public hearing and if such a
request is not received by the (hearing body or officer) within such ten (10)
day period, the (locally designated officer) shall have the authority to abate
and remove said vehicle (or said parts of a vehicle) without a hearing.
Notice Mailed __________________ s/_____________________________
         (date)         (locally designated officer)
10-13-9: PUBLIC HEARING:
Upon request by the owner of the vehicle or owner of the land received by the
Chief of Police within ten (10) days after the mailing of the notices of
intention to abate and remove, a public hearing shall be held by the (hearing
body or officer) on the question of abatement and removal of the vehicle or
parts thereof as an abandoned, wrecked, dismantled, or inoperative vehicle, and
the assessment of the administrative costs and the cost of removal of the
vehicle or parts thereof against the property on which it is located.
If the owner of the land submits a sworn written statement denying
responsibility for the presence of the vehicle on his land within such ten (10)
day period, said statement shall be construed as a request for a hearing which
does not require his presence. Notice of the hearing shall be mailed, by
registered mail, at least ten (10) days before the hearing to the owner of the
land and to the owner of the vehicle, unless the vehicle is in such condition
that identification numbers are not available to determine ownership. If such a
request for hearing is not received within said ten (10) days after mailing of
the notice of intention to abate and remove, the City shall have the authority
to abate and remove the vehicle or parts thereof as a public nuisance without
holding a public hearing.
10-13-10: HEARING OFFICER:
All hearings under this Ordinance shall be held before the Chief of Police who
shall hear all facts and testimony he deems pertinent. Said facts and testimony
may include testimony on the condition of the vehicle or parts thereof and the
circumstances concerning its location on the said private property or public
property. The Chief of Police shall not be limited by the technical rules of
evidence. The owner of the land may appear in person at the hearing, or present
a sworn written statement in time for consideration at the hearing, and deny
responsibility for the presence of the vehicle on the land, with his reasons
for such denial.
The hearing officer may impose such conditions and take such other action as he
deems appropriate under the circumstances to carry out the purpose of this
Chapter. He may delay the time for removal of the vehicle or parts thereof if,
in his opinion, the circumstances justify it. At the conclusion of the public
hearing, the hearing officer may find that a vehicle or parts thereof has been
abandoned, wrecked, dismantled, or is inoperative on private or public property
and order the same removed from the property as a public nuisance and disposed
of as hereinafter provided and determine the administrative costs and the cost
of removal to be charged against the owner of the land. The order requiring
removal shall include a description of the vehicle or parts thereof and the
correct identification number and license number of the vehicle, if available
at the site.
If it is determined at the hearing that the vehicle was placed on the land
without the consent of the owner of the land and that he has not subsequently
acquiesced in its presence, the hearing officer shall not assess the costs of
administration or removal of the vehicle against the property upon which the
vehicle is located or otherwise attempt to collect such costs from such owner
of the land.
If the owner of the land submits a sworn written statement denying
responsibility for the presence of the vehicle on his land but does not appear,
or if an interested party makes a written presentation to the hearing officer
but does not appear, he shall be notified in writing of the decision.
10-13-11: APPEAL:
Any interested party may appeal the decision of the hearing officer by filing a
written notice of appeal with the said hearing officer within five (5) days
after its decision.
Such appeal shall be heard by the City Council which may affirm, amend, or
reverse the order or take other action deemed appropriate.
The Clerk shall give written notice of the time and place of the hearing to the
appellant and those persons specified in Section 8.
In conducting the hearing the City Council shall not be limited by the
technical rules of evidence.
10-13-12: DISPOSAL:
Five (5) days after adoption of the order declaring the vehicle or parts
thereof to be a public nuisance, five (5) days from the date of mailing of
notice of the decision if such notice is required by Section 10, or fifteen
(15) days after such action of the governing body authorizing removal following
appeal, the vehicle or parts thereof may be disposed of by removal to a
scrapyard or automobile dismantler's yard. After a vehicle has been removed it
shall not thereafter be reconstructed or made operable.
10-13-13: NOTICE TO DEPARTMENT OF MOTOR VEHICLES:
Within five (5) days after the date of removal of the vehicle or parts thereof,
notice shall be given to the Department of Motor Vehicles identifying the
vehicle or parts thereof removed. At the same time there shall be transmitted
to the Department of Motor Vehicles any evidence of registration available,
including registration certificates, certificates of title and license plates.
10-13-14: COLLECTION OF COSTS:
If the administrative costs and the cost of removal which are charged against
the owner of a parcel of land pursuant to Section 10 are not paid within thirty
(30) days of the date of the order, or the final disposition of an appeal
therefrom, such costs shall be assessed against the parcel of land pursuant to
Section 38773.5 of the Government Code and shall be transmitted to the tax
collector for collection. Said assessment shall have the same priority as other
City taxes.
10-13-15: MISDEMEANOR TO ABANDON:
It shall be unlawful and a misdemeanor for any person to abandon, park, store,
or leave or permit the abandonment, parking, storing or leaving of any licensed
or unlicensed vehicle or part thereof which is in an abandoned, wrecked,
dismantled or inoperative condition upon any private property or public
property not including highways within the City for a period in excess of ten
(10) days unless such vehicle or part thereof is completely enclosed within a
building in a lawful manner where it is not plainly visible from the street or
other public or private property, or unless such vehicle is stored or parked in
a lawful manner on private property in connection with the business of a
licensed dismantler, licensed vehicle dealer or a junkyard.
10-13-16: MISDEMEANOR TO FAIL TO REMOVE VEHICLE:
It shall be unlawful and a misdemeanor for any person to fail or refuse to
remove an abandoned, wrecked, dismantled or inoperative vehicle or part thereof
or refuse to abate such nuisance when ordered to do so in accordance with the
abatement provisions of this Chapter or State law where such State law is
applicable. (Ord. 686; 8-2-71; Eff. 9-1-71)
CHAPTER 14
SPEED
SECTION:
10-14-1: Speed Limit
10-14-1A: Prima Facie Speed Limit Declared Fifteen Miles Per Hour (Rep. by Ord.
93-10, 12-6-1993)
10-14-2: Prima Facie Speed Limit Declared Twenty Five Miles Per Hour
10-14-3: Prima Facie Speed Limit Declared Thirty Miles Per Hour
10-14-4: Prima Facie Speed Limit Declared Thirty Five Miles Per Hour
10-14-5: Prima Facie Speed Limit Declared Forty Miles Per Hour
10-14-6: Prima Facie Speed Limit Declared Forty Five Miles Per Hour
10-14-7: Prima Facie Speed Limit Declared Fifty Miles Per Hour
10-14-8: Prima Facie Speed Limit Declared Fifty Five Miles Per Hour
10-14-1: SPEED LIMIT:
It is hereby determined upon the basis of a traffic survey conducted during May
2017, that the following speed limits will facilitate the orderly movement of
vehicular traffic and are reasonable and safe and are declared the prima facie
speed limits and shall be effective when appropriate signs giving notice
thereof are erected upon the street(s). (Ord. 2017-3, 9-18-2017)
10-14-1A: PRIMA FACIE SPEED LIMIT DECLARED FIFTEEN MILES PER HOUR:
(Rep. by Ord. 93-10, 12-6-1993)
10-14-2: PRIMA FACIE SPEED LIMIT DECLARED TWENTY FIVE MILES PER HOUR:
Barbara Street from Jasper Street to Mitchell Avenue
Dockery Avenue from north end of Maple Street to Floral Avenue
Evergreen Street from Country Club Lane to Dockery Avenue
E. Front Street from Arrants Street to Third Street
W. Front Street from North Street to McCall Avenue
Huntsman Avenue from Wright Street to Thompson Avenue
McCall Avenue from Arrants Street to High Street
McCall Avenue from W. Front Street to Whitson Street
Nebraska Avenue from end west of Young Street to McCall Avenue
Nebraska Avenue from Second Street to Sheridan Street
Orange Avenue from Mill Street to Rose Avenue
Second Street from McCall Avenue to Whitson Street
Sheridan Avenue from Nebraska Avenue to Valley View Street
Stillman Street from Chandler Street to McCall Avenue
Stillman Street from Dockery Avenue to McCall Avenue
Third Street from end northeast of Bauder Street to Nebraska Avenue
Third Street from end southwest of Young Street to Mill Street
Thompson Avenue from Arrants Street to Whitson Street
All other local streets in residential and business districts in the City not
included in this section. (Ord. 822, 2-17-1981; amd. Ord. 888, 8-4-1986; Ord.
927, 3-19-1990; Ord. 93-10, 12-6-1993)
10-14-3: PRIMA FACIE SPEED LIMIT DECLARED THIRTY MILES PER HOUR:
Barbara Street from Mulberry Street to Wright Street
Dockery Avenue from Nebraska Avenue to Rose Avenue
Evergreen Street from Dockery Avenue to Orange Avenue
Floral Avenue from west City limits to Whitson Street
E. Front Street from Nebraska Avenue to Third Street
W. Front Street from McCall Avenue to Whitson Street
McCall Avenue from Arrants Street to Floral Avenue
Mill Street from Dockery Avenue to Second Street
Mitchell Avenue from Blaine Street to Nebraska Avenue
Mitchell Avenue from Nebraska Avenue to Pine Street
Mitchell Avenue from city limit south of Nebraska Avenue to Nebraska Avenue
Nebraska Avenue from Second Street to 160 feet west of Thompson Avenue
Orange Avenue from Floral Avenue to Rose Avenue
Second Street from Nebraska Avenue to Whitson Street
Sylvia Street from Second Street to Thompson Street
Thompson Avenue from Floral Avenue to Whitson Street
Thompson Avenue from Valley View Street to Nebraska Avenue
Wright Street from Arrants Street to north city limits
Young Street from Nebraska Avenue to Thompson Avenue (Ord. 822, 2-17-1981; amd.
Ord. 888, 8-4-1986; Ord. 927, 3-19-1990; Ord. 93-10, 12-6-1993)
10-14-4: PRIMA FACIE SPEED LIMIT DECLARED THIRTY FIVE MILES PER HOUR:
Chandler Street from Arrants Street to Thompson Avenue
Dockery Avenue from Floral Avenue to Rose Avenue
Highland Avenue from city limit north of Golden State Boulevard to Golden State
Boulevard
Highland Avenue from Floral Avenue to Whitson Street
McCall Avenue from city limit south of Blaine Avenue to Whitson Street
Nebraska Avenue from city limit east of East Front Street to East Front Street
Nebraska Avenue from Thompson Avenue to west city limits
Orange Avenue from city limit north of Barbara Street to Floral Avenue
Rose Avenue from city limit east of Country Club Lane to McCall Avenue
Rose Avenue from Thompson Avenue to Highland Avenue (Ord. 822, 2-17-1981; amd.
Ord. 888, 8-4-1986; Ord. 927, 3-19-1990; Ord. 93-10, 12-6-1993)
10-14-5: PRIMA FACIE SPEED LIMIT DECLARED FORTY MILES PER HOUR:
!!! Highland Avenue from Stillman Street to Floral Avenue
McCall Avenue from Dinuba Avenue to Floral Avenue
Thompson Avenue from Dinuba Avenue to Floral Avenue
West Front Street from North Street to Whitson Street
Whitson Street from Highland Avenue on the north to Todd Street on the south
(Ord. 822, 2-17-1981; amd. Ord. 888, 8-4-1986; Ord. 927, 3-19-1990; Ord. 93-10,
12-6-1993)
10-14-6: PRIMA FACIE SPEED LIMIT DECLARED FORTY FIVE MILES PER HOUR:
Dinuba Avenue from city limit east of McCall Avenue to McCall Avenue
Dinuba Avenue from city limit at Thompson Avenue to 1,320 feet east of Thompson
Avenue (Ord. 822, 2-17-1981; amd. Ord. 888, 8-4-1986)
10-14-7: PRIMA FACIE SPEED LIMIT DECLARED FIFTY MILES PER HOUR:
Golden State Boulevard from Todd Street to the south city limit (Ord. 927, 3-
19-1990)
10-14-8: PRIMA FACIE SPEED LIMIT DECLARED FIFTY FIVE MILES PER HOUR:
Golden State Boulevard from the north city limit to Highland Avenue (Ord. 927,
3-19-1990)
CHAPTER 15
SKATEBOARDS 1
(Rep. by Ord. 2006-3, 3-20-2006)
 
Notes
1 1. See title IX, chapter 8.1 of this code.
CHAPTER 16
FUNERAL PROCESSIONS
SECTION:
10-16-1: Purpose
10-16-2: Rules Governing Funeral Processions
10-16-3: Permit Required
10-16-4: Authorized Traffic Direction
10-16-5: Permit Procedure
10-16-6: Denial of Permit
10-16-7: Permit Issuance
10-16-8: Indemnity and Hold Harmless
10-16-9: Liability Insurance
10-16-10: Procedure for Permit Denial and Revocation
10-16-11: Traffic Safety Instruction Program
10-16-12: Official Insignia
10-16-1: PURPOSE:
It is the purpose of this Chapter to invoke the power conferred to local
agencies by section 21100(e) of the California Vehicle Code which authorizes
the appointment of persons other than traffic officers to direct traffic in
such prescribed situations and locations as may require traffic direction for
orderly traffic flow.
10-16-2: RULES GOVERNING FUNERAL PROCESSIONS:
   (A)   Each vehicle participating in a funeral procession shall be operated
with its headlights and, if so equipped, its emergency flashers turned on.
   (B)   No operator of any vehicle shall drive between the vehicles comprising
a funeral procession, provided that the vehicles comprising such procession are
conspicuously so designated by having their headlights and, if so equipped,
emergency flashers turned on.
   (C)   The directing of all vehicles and traffic on any street over which
such funeral procession or parade wishes to pass shall be subject to rules and
regulations promulgated by the Police Department.
10-16-3: PERMIT REQUIRED:
No person shall stop traffic at intersections or otherwise lead or escort a
vehicular funeral procession without first obtaining a permit pursuant to this
Chapter.
10-16-4: AUTHORIZED TRAFFIC DIRECTION:
   (A)   Any person issued a valid funeral escort permit pursuant to this
Chapter and leading or escorting a vehicular funeral procession shall obey all
traffic laws, including all speed laws, except that such person is authorized
to stop cross-traffic, to enable all vehicles in the funeral procession to
proceed together as an unbroken chain, at intersections controlled by:
      1.   Stop signs, providing that the permittee remains in the intersection
until all funeral procession vehicles have cleared the intersection.
      2.   Signal lights, providing that the lead vehicle in the procession
enters the intersection with a green light and the permittee remains in the
intersection at all times when the procession is proceeding through the
intersection.
   (B)   A permittee is authorized to direct traffic in the manner specified in
this Section only when using a vehicle conspicuously designated "Funeral
Escort", wearing an official insignia issued by the Police Chief, and carrying
a valid permit issued to him or her as an individual pursuant to this Chapter.
No permittee shall wear a uniform similar to that of a Selma Police Officer.
   (C)   The City Clerk/Finance Director may order the revocation of a funeral
escort permit, in accordance with the procedure specified in Section
10-16-10, if the permittee has directed traffic in a manner contrary to that
specified in this Section.
10-16-5: PERMIT PROCEDURE:
Applications for a funeral escort permit shall be filed with the City Clerk/
Finance Director and shall contain the following:
   (A)   Name and address of applicant.
   (B)   Proof of insurance in compliance with Section
10-16-9.
   (C)   Proof of satisfactory completion of a traffic safety program of
instruction, as described in Section
10-16-11.
   (D)   Proof that the applicant holds a valid California vehicle operator's
license, properly endorsed for the type of vehicle the applicant intends to use
while directing vehicular funeral processions.
   (E)   Permit and insignia fees, as established by resolution of the Council.
   (F)   Such other information as may be required by the Police Chief or City
Clerk/Finance Director.
10-16-6: DENIAL OF PERMIT:
Permits authorized by this Chapter may be denied by the City Clerk/Finance
Director upon original or renewal application upon the following grounds:
   (A)   The application is incomplete; or
   (B)   Applicant has been convicted of a crime, and the time for appeal has
elapsed, or when an order granting probation is made suspending the imposition
of sentence, irrespective of the entry of a subsequent order under California
Penal Code section 1203.4; provided, however, that the permit may be denied
upon this ground only if the crime is substantially related to the
qualifications, functions or duties associated with leading or otherwise
escorting a vehicular funeral procession.
10-16-7: PERMIT ISSUANCE:
Funeral escort permits shall be issued by the City Clerk/Finance Director and
shall expire on September 30 of the calendar year following the date of
issuance unless sooner revoked. Permits shall not be transferable.
10-16-8: INDEMNITY AND HOLD HARMLESS:
The funeral escort permittee and his or her funeral escort service employer, if
any, shall assume all responsibility for his or her activity and operation,
shall bear all losses and damages directly or indirectly resulting to him or
her, any subcontractor, the City or City employees that are the result of the
performance or character of the operation, unforeseen difficulties, accidents,
occurrences or other causes not predicated on negligence of the City. The
permittee or his or her funeral escort service employer shall assume the
defense of and indemnify and save harmless the City and its officers and
employees from all claims, loss, damage, injury, and liability of every kind,
nature and description, including punitive damages, directly or indirectly
arising from the escorting of a vehicular funeral procession.
10-16-9: LIABILITY INSURANCE:
During the term of a permit issued pursuant to this Chapter, the permittee or
his or her funeral escort service shall maintain in full force and effect at
the permittee's or his or her employer's own cost a comprehensive auto and
general liability insurance policy in an amount no less than three hundred
thousand dollars ($300,000.00) single limit per occurrence, and the funeral
home engaging the escort service shall maintain in full force and effect such a
policy in an amount no less than five hundred thousand dollars ($500,000.00)
single limit per occurrence, which policies shall:
   (A)   Be issued by an admitted insurer or insurers as defined by the
California Insurance Code.
   (B)   Cover all losses and damages as specified in Section
10-16-8 of this Chapter.
   (C)   Stipulate that the policy will operate as primary insurance and that
no other insurance effected by the City or other named insured will be called
on to contribute to a loss covered thereunder.
   (D)   Provide that no cancellation, change in coverage, or expiration by the
insurance company or the insured shall occur during the term of the funeral
escort service permit, without thirty (30) days' written notice to the City
prior to the effective date of such cancellation or change in coverage.
In the event of failure of any permittee or his or her funeral escort employer
to maintain in effect such insurance policy or in the event such permittee
escorts a funeral procession for a funeral home which does not have in effect a
policy of insurance as required herein, the City Clerk/Finance Director shall
order the cancellation of his or her permit as provided in this Section and
Section
10-16-10.
10-16-10: PROCEDURE FOR PERMIT DENIAL AND REVOCATION:
   (A)   The City Clerk/Finance Director may revoke, refuse to issue, or refuse
to renew a funeral escort service permit only after a hearing granted upon
three (3) days' written notice to the permittee. Such notice shall specify the
specific ground for the proposed action. At the hearing, to be held by the City
Clerk/Finance Director or his designee, the permittee shall be given the
opportunity to present witnesses and documentary evidence, to be represented by
counsel and to examine all witnesses presented. Issuance of a written notice of
cancellation by an insurance company shall be conclusive proof at the hearing
of the effective cancellation of an insurance policy. A decision of the City
Clerk/Finance Director revoking or denying the permit shall be effective upon
the effective date of the cancellation of said insurance or the date when the
written decision is signed by the City Clerk/Finance Director, whichever is
earlier. The taking or pendency of an appeal under subsection (B) of this
Section shall not stay the effectiveness of such decision.
   (B)   If the permittee is dissatisfied with the decision of the City Clerk/
Finance Director in ordering the revocation or denial of the permit, such
person may appeal to the City Administrator by filing a notice of appeal in
writing with the City Administrator within fifteen (15) days of the date of the
order of the City Clerk/Finance Director. The City Administrator or his
designee shall hold a hearing within thirty (30) days of the receipt of the
notice of appeal. The permittee shall be accorded the same hearing rights
provided in subsection (A) hereof. The City Administrator may sustain, reverse
or modify the order of the City Clerk/Finance Director. The decision of the
City Administrator shall be final.
10-16-11: TRAFFIC SAFETY INSTRUCTION PROGRAM:
Each applicant for a funeral escort permit shall submit to the Police Chief or
his designee evidence of the curriculum, including instruction of materials and
skills taught and practiced, of an instructional program of traffic safety
which the applicant has satisfactorily completed. The Police Chief or his
designee shall review and approve each submitted instructional program if the
Police Chief or his designee reasonably believes that the program provided the
applicant sufficient training to direct traffic as specified in Section
10-16-4 in a safe and lawful manner.
10-16-12: OFFICIAL INSIGNIA:
The Police Chief shall approve an official insignia which must be worn by all
permittees while directing traffic in the manner specified in Section
10-16-4. (Ord. 918, 7-3-89)
TITLE XI
ZONING
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
11-1-1: Purpose, Applicability And Authority
11-1-2: Director Interpretation And Construction Language
11-1-3: Establishment Of Zoning Districts And Boundaries
11-1-4: Zoning Map
11-1-5: Zoning District Boundary And Determinations Uncertainty Of Boundaries
11-1-6: More Restrictive Provisions In Other Laws And Ordinances
11-1-1: PURPOSE, APPLICABILITY AND AUTHORITY:
   (A)   Purpose: The purpose of this title is to promote the growth of the
city in an orderly manner that is consistent with the Selma General Plan and to
preserve and promote the public health, safety, and welfare of the city. More
specifically, this Zoning Ordinance is adopted to achieve the following
objectives:
      1.   To provide a precise guide and standards for the physical
development of the City in a manner that achieves orderly growth and
development of the city, consistent with the goals and policies of the General
Plan;
      2.   Ensure compatibility between residential and nonresidential
development and land uses;
      3.   Promote a well-designed city through the regulation of signing,
landscaping, and site planning;
      4.   Prevent the overbuilding of land by development through the
regulation of lot coverage, setbacks, height, lot density, and lot dimension;
      5.   Provide a safe, effective traffic circulation system, including
parking and loading areas;
      6.   Provide and protect residential, commercial, and industrial
development in the city in order to strengthen its economic base;
      7.   Protect and enhance the quality of the natural and built
environment;
      8.   Conserve the city's natural resources, community assets, and
architectural history;
      9.   Provide for a mix of housing types and densities which will ensure
adequate and affordable housing for all economic segments of the community;
      10.   Provide a full range of commercial activity for residents and
employment opportunities appropriate to the community;
      11.   Provide an appropriate interface between land uses that include
commercial, industrial, mixed-use and residential land uses;
      12.   To provide for citizen participation in the development decision-
making process; and
      13.   To maintain and foster community identity citywide, through the
enforcement of the objectives listed above.
   (B)   Applicability:
      1.   Applicability to Property:
         (a)   This title shall apply, to the extent permitted by state and
federal law, to all property within the municipal boundaries of the City of
Selma, including all uses, structures, and land owned by any person, firm,
corporation, or organization or the City or other local, state, or federal
agencies. Any governmental agency shall be exempt from the provisions of this
title only to the extent that such property may not be lawfully regulated by
the City. City government uses, including, without limitation, fire stations,
police stations, and public safety facilities, may be permitted in any district
subject to the approval of a Conditional Use Permit.
         (b)   No land shall be used, and no structure shall be constructed,
occupied, enlarged, altered, demolished, or moved in any zoning district,
except in accordance with the provisions of this Zoning Ordinance. Specific
uses of land, buildings, and structures listed as prohibited in any zoning
district are hereby declared to be detrimental to the public health, safety,
and welfare. The enumeration of prohibited uses shall not by implication
enlarge the scope of permitted uses; they are for purposes of clarity only. A
proposed use type within a zoning district must be listed as a permitted use
type or similar to the listed use type per the applicable zoning district or
determined to be such through the determination of the City Manager or
designee, in order to be authorized under the Zoning Ordinance.
   (C)   Authority: This title is adopted pursuant to the provisions of Chapter
4 of Title 7 of the Government Code of the state of California, commonly known
as the conservation and planning law pursuant to GOV §
   (D)   Relationship To General Plan And Other Ordinances And Regulations:
      1.   General Plan: The General Plan is a comprehensive, long-range,
general policy statement for the entire community. The General Plan designates
appropriate locations and densities for residential, commercial, industrial,
agricultural, public, and open space uses. In comparison, the Zoning Ordinance
is a specific statement of permissible uses of land by zoning district designed
to control the use, type, bulk, height, space and location of buildings and
land. The Zoning Ordinance is the primary tool by which the City implements the
policies of the General Plan. The Zoning Ordinance is intended to be applied
based on land use designations established in the General Plan.
The Zoning Ordinance shall be consistent with the General Plan of the City of
Selma. Where inconsistencies do exist, the General Plan shall control the use
and development of such land until such time as the City Council revises the
Zoning Ordinance to achieve consistency with the General Plan.#check if this
abides with new senate bill
      2.   Permit Streamlining Act: All actions taken by the decision-making
body pursuant to this title shall be consistent with the provisions of
California Government Code Section 65920 et seq. (the Permit Streamlining Act)
to the extent applicable.
      3.   Relation To Private Agreements: Where this title imposes greater
restriction than imposed by an easement, covenant, or agreement, this title
shall control.
      4.   Effect On Previously Approved Projects And Projects In Progress: The
following projects shall have a vested right to proceed without complying with
this title.
      5.   Previously Approved Development: The erection, construction,
enlargement, demolition, moving, conversion of, and excavation and grading for
any building or structure for which a valid permit or building permit was
issued prior to the effective date of this title and which does not
subsequently expire. A permit that does not contain an express limit on the
time for exercising the permit shall be deemed valid only if a building permit
is obtained within one year of the effective date of this title.
      6.   Vesting Tentative Maps: Any residential project for which a vesting
tentative map application was determined complete prior to the effective date
of this title.
      7.   Applications For Projects In Progress: Any application for a
Planning entitlement, except a Development Agreement application, determined
complete on or before adoption of this title.
   (E)   Severability, Partial Invalidation: If any section, subsection, or
portion of this title is for any reason held to be invalid or unconstitutional
by the decision of any court of competent jurisdiction, such decision shall not
affect the validity of the remaining portion of this title. The City Council
hereby declares that it would have adopted this title and any section,
subsection, or portion thereof, irrespective of the fact that any one or more
section, subsections or portions be declared invalid or unconstitutional. (Ord.
2024-6, 6-17-2024)
11-1-2: DIRECTOR INTERPRETATION AND CONSTRUCTION LANGUAGE:
   (A)   Interpretation:
      1.   In interpreting and applying the provisions of this title, the same
shall be construed to be the minimum requirement for the promotion of the
public health, safety, comfort, convenience, and general welfare.
Where this title imposes more stringent restrictions on the use of land or
buildings, or upon the height of buildings, or requires larger open spaces
around or different location of buildings than may be imposed or required by
any other law, rule or regulation or by any easement, covenant or agreement,
then the provisions of this title shall control.
   (B)   Construction Language:
      1.   In interpreting the various provisions of this title, the following
rules of construction shall apply:
         (a)   The particular controls the general.
         (b)   Unless the context clearly indicates the contrary, the following
conjunctions shall be interpreted as follows:
   "And" indicates that all connected words or provisions shall apply.
   "And/or" indicates that the connected words or provisions may apply
singularly or in any combination.
   "Or" indicates that the connected words or provisions may apply singularly
or in any combination.
   "Either... or" indicates that the connected words or provisions shall apply
singularly but not in combination.
         (c)   In case of conflict between the text and a diagram or graphic,
the text controls. Diagrams, graphics, and maps are for illustrative purposes
only.
         (d)   All references to Departments, Committees, Commissions, Boards,
or other Public Agencies are to those of the City, unless otherwise indicated.
         (e)   All references to public officials are to those of the City, and
include designated deputies of such officials, unless otherwise indicated.
         (f)   All references to days are to calendar days, unless otherwise
indicated. If a deadline falls on a weekend or holiday, or a day when the City
offices are closed, it shall be extended to the next working day. The end of a
time period shall be the close of business on the last day of the period.
         (g)   Sections and section headings contained herein shall not be
deemed to govern, limit, modify, or in any manner affect the scope, meaning, or
intent of any section.
         (h)   When used in this Zoning Code, the words "shall," "must,"
"will," "is to," and "are to" are always mandatory. "Should" is not mandatory,
but is strongly recommended, and "may" is permissive. The present tense
includes the past and future tenses; and the future tense includes the present,
and therefore are interchangeable. The singular number includes the plural
number, and the plural the singular, and therefore are interchangeable, unless
the common meaning of the word indicates otherwise. The words "includes" and
"including" shall mean "including, but not limited to."
         (i)   Whenever, in the opinion of the Director, or at the discretion
of the Planning Commission, there is any question regarding the interpretation
of the General Plan, Specific Plan, or the provisions of the Zoning Ordinance
or its application to any specific case or situation, that warrants formal
interpretation, the Director shall interpret the relevant provision of the
General Plan, Specific Plan, or Zoning Ordinance by written decision which
interpretation shall be placed on the Planning Commission agenda as a
discussion item.
         (j)   Effect: The interpretation shall become the standard
interpretation for future applications effective fourteen (14) consecutive
calendar days from the date of the Planning Commission meeting when the
interpretation appears on the agenda unless the Planning Commission decides at
that meeting to review the interpretation. Such review can occur either at the
same meeting that the interpretation first appears on the agenda or at a
subsequent meeting. The interpretation, as it may be altered or revised by the
Planning Commission, shall become effective fourteen consecutive calendar days
from the date of the Planning Commission meeting when the review occurs unless
during that fourteen (14) day time period a member of the City Council submits
a written request to the Director that the interpretation be placed on the City
Council agenda for its review. If such a Council member request is made and
review undertaken, the interpretation, as it may be altered or revised by the
City Council, shall become effective fourteen (14) consecutive calendar days
from the date of the City Council's review.
         (k)   Publication:; The interpretation shall be published on the
Planning Division website after the interpretation becomes effective. (Ord.
2024-6, 6-17-2024)
11-1-3: ESTABLISHMENT OF ZONING DISTRICTS AND BOUNDARIES:
   (A)   Establishment Of Zoning Districts: The classes of zoning districts and
combining districts as designated in this chapter and the regulations
pertaining thereto are hereby applied to the land areas of the city as
delineated on the zoning map of the City of Selma and the lands so designated
shall be subject to the regulations of this chapter. Changes in classification
of zones and boundaries of zones may be made by:
      1.   Adoption of an amended zoning map, or part or subpart thereof,
showing the change thereon, in the manner provided for amendment of this title.
      2.   Other amendment of this title which describes the change, without
adoption of an amended map.
   (B)   Boundaries: The boundaries of the zoning districts are shown on the
official Zoning Map. The Zoning Map, together with all legends, symbols,
notations, references, zoning district boundaries, and other information on the
map adopted by the Council, are hereby incorporated into this Code by
reference.
      1.   Before property is annexed to the city it shall be pre-zoned to a
district that is consistent with the General Plan. If a General Plan land use
designation has not been placed upon the property, a general plan amendment
will be required to establish a land use designation for the property before
the property can be pre-zoned and annexed to the city. (Ord. 2024-6, 6-17-2024)
11-1-4: ZONING MAP:
A copy of the zoning boundaries map, as amended from time to time, shall be
filed in the office of the Community Development Department of the City of
Selma. A copy shall also be filed with the City Clerk of the City of Selma.
For purposes of convenience in administration, the Zoning Map may be divided
into parts and subparts, which may be separately shown or employed for purposes
of amending the zoning map or any official reference thereto. (Ord. 533, 6-5-
1961; amd. Ord. 2004-5, 4-19-2004; Ord. 2024-6, 6-17-2024)
11-1-5: ZONING DISTRICT BOUNDARY AND DETERMINATIONS UNCERTAINTY OF BOUNDARIES:
If there is uncertainty as to any boundary of any zone, the following rules
shall apply:
   (A)   Where such boundary is shown as approximately following the line of
any street, alley, or other public way, or any lot line, such line shall be
deemed to be such boundary.
   (B)   Where such boundary does not follow any existing line, as mentioned in
subsection
11-1-5(A) of this section, the location shall be as shown by the dimensions
indicated on the zoning map, if any, or by use of the scale appearing thereon.
   (C)   If any part of any public street, alley or way is officially vacated
or abandoned, the Zoning District regulations applicable to abutting properties
shall apply to the former centerline of the vacated or abandoned street or
alley.
   (D)   If any land is not shown on the zoning map as within a zone, or if any
land is annexed to or consolidated with the city subsequent to the effective
date of this title, it shall remain un-zoned and unable to be developed in the
City until appropriate review is conducted.
   (E)   Where any private right-of-way or easement of any railroad, railway,
transportation, or public utility company is vacated or abandoned, the district
regulations applicable to abutting properties shall apply to the former
centerline of the vacated or abandoned right-of-way easement.
   (F)   The air rights above or the ground rights below any freeway, parkway,
highway, street, alley, or easement shall be in the same district as is
applicable to the property abutting the freeway, parkway, highway, street,
alley, or easement. In cases where a freeway, parkway, highway, street, alley,
or easement forms the boundary between districts, the centerline of the right-
of-way shall be the boundary.
   (G)   In case of any remaining uncertainty, the Director shall determine the
location of the district boundary. The Director's decision may be appealed to
the Planning Commission in accordance with the procedures set forth in Section
11-7-8 Appeals. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the district boundary
uncertainty arises in the context of a discretionary permit application, then
the location of the boundary shall be determined by the decision-making body
for that discretionary permit application. (Ord. 2024-6, 6-17-2024)
11-1-6: MORE RESTRICTIVE PROVISIONS IN OTHER LAWS AND ORDINANCES:
Notwithstanding anything set forth or provided for in this Code, if other
provisions of the Municipal Code, or other applicable laws, rules, or
regulations, conflict with the provisions set forth in this Code, then the
other such laws, rules, or regulations shall be applicable. (Ord. 2024-6, 6-17-
2024)
CHAPTER 2
ZONING DISTRICTS AND ALLOWABLE USES
SECTION:
11-2-1: Residential
11-2-2: Single-Family
11-2-3: Multi-Family
11-2-4: Commercial
11-2-5: Manufacturing
11-2-6: Combining Zones
11-2-7: Open Space
11-2-1: RESIDENTIAL:
The purpose of these regulations are to provide for a full range of housing
types and densities consistent with the General Plan, and to enhance and
preserve the character of existing residential neighborhoods. (Ord. 2024-6, 6-
17-2024)
11-2-2: MAP:
SINGLE-FAMILY:
   (A)   Purpose: The purposes of this zoning district are to:
      1.   Provide for residential areas within the city that allow varying
densities of single-family homes and other uses compatible with the R-1-4, R-1-
7, R-1-9, and R-1-12 zoning districts.
      2.   Provide for one accessory dwelling unit and one junior accessory
dwelling unit consistent with the General Plan and state law.
      3.   Promote a suitable living environment by maintaining orderly flow of
residential traffic and restricting traffic from other sources.
      4.   Provide space for neighborhood-serving uses.
      5.   Minimizing noise and disturbances in residential neighborhoods.
      6.   Ensure adequate light, air and privacy for each dwelling.
      7.   Avoid overburdening public facilities, including sewer, water, gas,
electricity, and schools through an increase of residents to a degree larger
than the city's planned infrastructure can reasonably and responsibly
accommodate.
      8.   Ensure that the scale and design of new development and alterations
to existing structures are consistent with the scale, mass, and character of
the existing residential neighborhood.
   (B)   Single-Family Zones:
 
Table 2-1   Single-Family Zones
Zoning Map Symbol Zoning District Name General Plan Land Use Designation
R-1-12            R-1-Estate           Very Low Density Residential; Low
                                       Density Residential
R-1-9             R-1-Low              Low Density Residential; Medium Low
                                       Density Residential
R-1-7             R-1-Medium Low       Medium Low Density Residential
R-1-4             R-1-Medium           Medium Low Density Residential
 
   (C)   Permitted Uses:
      1.   The following table sets forth the permits required for each listed
use category.
         (a)   "P" designates permitted uses.
         (b)   "SPR" designates uses that are permitted after review and
approval of a site plan review. This is considered a non-discretionary permit.
         (c)   "DRA" designates uses that are permitted after review and
approval of a director review and approval process.
         (d)   "CUP" designates uses that are permitted after review and
approval of a conditional use permit.
         (e.)   "TUP" designates uses that are permitted after review and
approval of a temporary use permit.
         (f)   "-" designates prohibited uses.
      2.   In cases where a specific land use or activity is not listed as a
permitted use either directly or indirectly, the city manager or designee may
assign the land use or activity to a classification per Section 11-8-2 (Use
Classifications).
      3.   Land Uses are defined in Chapter 8 (Definitions/Use
classifications). Use classifications not listed in the table or not found to
be substantially similar to the uses below are not permitted. The table also
notes special requirements that apply to various uses. Section numbers in the
right-hand column refer to other Sections of this title.
Table 2-2   Permitted Uses
Use Types R-1- 12 R-1- 9 R-1- 7 R-1-4 Special Requirements
Table 2-2   Permitted Uses
Use Types                      R-1- 12 R-1- 9 R-1- 7 R-1-4 Special Requirements
Single-Family Residence        P       P      P      P      
Duplexes                       P       P      P      P      
Supportive Housing             P       P      P      P      
Transitional Housing           P       P      P      P      
Accessory Structures           P       P      P      P      
                                                           See Section
Accessory Dwelling Unit        P       P      P      P     11-4-2  (ADUs and
                                                           Junior ADUs)
                                                           See Section
Junior Accessory Dwelling Unit P       P      P      P     11-4-2  (ADUs and
                                                           Junior ADUs)
                                                           See Section
Home Occupations - Minor &     DRA     DRA    DR A   DRA   11-4-3  (Home
Major                                                      Occupations - Minor
                                                           & Major)
Large Family Day Care (up to                               See Section
14 children)                   P       P      P      P     11-4-4  (Child Care
                                                           Facilities)
Small Family Day Care (up to 8                             See Section
children)                      P       P      P      P     11-4-4  (Child Care
                                                           Facilities)
                                                           See Section
Bed and Breakfast Inns         CUP     CUP    CUP    CUP   11-4-12  (Bed and
                                                           Breakfast Inns)
Boarding Home/Group            SPR     SPR    SPR    SPR    
Residential (up to 6 persons)
Residential Care, General      SPR     SPR    SPR    SPR    
Residential Care, Limited      P       P      P      P      
Public Facilities              SPR     SPR    SPR    SPR    
Hospice, Limited               P       P      P      P      
Religious Facilities           CUP     CUP    CUP    CUP    
Rooming, Public or Private     CUP     CUP    CUP    CUP    
Rest Home Providing Housing                                Subject to Health
for Six or Fewer Unrelated     P       P      P      P     and Safety Code
Persons                                                    Sections 1267.8,
                                                           1566.3, 1568.08
Rest Home Providing Housing
for More Than Six Unrelated    CUP     CUP    CUP    CUP    
Persons
Open Space, Private            SPR     SPR    SPR    CUP    
Open Space, Public             SPR     SPR    SPR    SPR    
Recreational Outdoor
Facilities (Public and         SPR     SPR    SPR    SPR    
Private)
Schools, Public or Private     CUP     CUP    CUP    SPR    
Short-term rentals             DRA     DRA    DR A   DRA    
Temporary Uses
   Contractors Construction                             See Section
Yard                           -       -      -      -     11-6-8  (Temporary
                                                           Use Permits (TUP))
                                                           See Section
   On-Location Filming      TUP     TUP    TUP    TUP   11-6-8  (Temporary
                                                           Use Permits (TUP))
                                                           See Section
Seasonal Sales                 -       -      -      -     11-6-8  (Temporary
                                                           Use Permits (TUP))
                                                           See Section
Temporary Sales Trailer        -       -      -      -     11-6-8  (Temporary
                                                           Use Permits (TUP))
                                                           See section
                                                           11-3-2  (Storage
Temporary Storage Container    TUP     TUP    TUP    TUP   Containers) and
                                                           See Section
                                                           11-6-8  (Temporary
                                                           Use Permits (TUP))
                                                           See Section
Temporary Structure            TUP     TUP    TUP    TUP   11-6-8  (Temporary
                                                           Use Permits (TUP))
                                                           See Section
Temporary Work Trailer         TUP-    TUP-   TUP -  TUP-  11-6-8  (Temporary
                                                           Use Permits (TUP))
Notes: no
 
   (D)   Development Standards: Development standards for the (R) zoning
district shall be as follows.
 
Table 2-3   Development Standards
Development Standard v Regulation               Comments or Special
Zoning District        R-1-12 R-1-9 R-1-7 R-1-4 Requirements
Table 2-3   Development Standards
Development Regulation                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Comments or
Standard v                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Special
Zoning      R-1-12                                                                     R-1-9                                                                      R-1-7                                                                      R-1-4                                                                      Requirements
District
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        See Section
Minimum Lot 12,000 square feet                                                         9,000 square feet                                                          7,000 square feet                                                          4,000 square feet                                                          11-3-1
Size                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    (Development
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Standards)
            Depth:                                                                     Depth:                                                                     Depth:                                                                     Depth:
            •   120 feet                                                          •   100 feet                                                          •   100 feet                                                          •   80 feet
            Width:                                                                     Width:                                                                     Width:                                                                     Width:
Minimum Lot •   80 feet                                                           •   70 feet                                                           •   50 feet                                                           •   40 feet                                                            
Dimensions  •   Corner lot: 90 feet                                               •   Corner lot: 80 feet                                               •   Corner lot: 75 feet                                               •   Corner lot: 65 feet
            •   Reverse corner lot: 95 feet                                       •   Reverse corner lot: 85 feet                                       •   Reverse corner lot: 75 feet                                       •   Reverse corner lot: 70 feet
            •   Cul-de-sac or loop out lots: 60 feet, with a minimum lot width    •   Cul-de-sac or loop out lots: 50 feet, with a minimum lot width    •   Cul-de-sac or loop out lots: 40 feet, with a minimum lot width    •   Cul-de-sac or loop out lots: 40 feet, with a minimum lot width
            building setback line of 80 feet                                           building setback line of 70 feet                                           building setback line of 60 feet                                           building setback line of 50 feet
Maximum Lot 40%                                                                        40%                                                                        40%                                                                        40%                                                                         
Coverage 1
Maximum                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 See Section
Building    35 feet                                                                    35 feet                                                                    35 feet                                                                    35 feet                                                                    11-3-1
Height                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  (Development
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Standards)
Maximum                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 See Section
Accessory   16 feet                                                                    16 feet                                                                    16 feet                                                                    16 feet                                                                    11-3-1
Building                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                (Development
Height                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Standards)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        See Section
Height                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              11-3-1
Projections                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             (Development
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Standards)
            Front yard: 35 feet                                                        Front yard: 15 feet to living space;                                       Front yard: 15 feet to living and all assessors structures space, 20 feet  Front yard: 15 feet to living space, 20 feet to garage;
            Side yard:                                                                 20 feet to garage;                                                         to garage;                                                                 Side yard:                                                                 See Section
Minimum     •   10 feet                                                           Side yard:                                                                 Side yard:                                                                 •   4 feet                                                            11-3-1
Yard        •   Corner lot, street side: 15 feet, except for garages and carports •   7 feet                                                            •   4 feet                                                            •   Corner lot, street side: 10 feet, except for garages and carports (Development
Setbacks    which is 20 feet                                                           •   Corner lot, street side: 15 feet, except for garages and carports •   Corner lot, street side: 10 feet, except for garages and carports which is 20 feet:                                                          Standards)
            Rear yard: 10 feet                                                         which is 20 feet                                                           which is 20 feet                                                           Rear yard: 10 feet
                                                                                       Rear yard: 10 feet                                                         Rear yard: 10 feet
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        See Section
Building                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            11-3-1
Separation                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              (Development
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Standards)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        See Section
Off Street                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          11-3-4 (Off
Parking                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Street
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Parking)
Notes: When adjacent to an R-1 or R-2 zone, the side yard setback shall be increased by 5 feet for each additional story.
 
   (E)   Single-Family Objective Design Standards: These objective design
standards apply to single family residential developments of ten (10) more
housing units. Regardless of architectural style, all develop shall follow
these standards:
      1.   Street-Level Frontage Articulation: The street frontage shall be
architecturally varied to create visual interest and shall include a minimum of
two (2) of the following architectural features:
         (a)   Recessed entries or entries with an awning or projecting
element. The recess and projection shall have a minimum combined depth of five
feet (5') (e.g. a three foot (3') recess and a two foot (2') projection/awning)
and a minimum width of six feet (6').
         (b)   Street level features such as architectural fencing or walls,
front porch or patio, elevation changes in front yard, raised planters or
window boxes.
         (c)   Landscaping in conformance with section
11-3-5.
      2.   General Styles:
         (a)   Massing And Architectural Elements:
            (1)   Massing reduces the impact of the massive bulk created by
large buildings that may not otherwise relate in scale to surrounding
development. Vertical articulation and horizontal articulation must be used in
designs, when applicable, to mitigate the impact on surrounding development and
the overall landscape.
            (2)   Building shall utilize a combination of simple geometric
volumes which emphasize clean lines.
            (3)   Varied roofline elevations are required in order to add
architectural interest and avoid the appearance or sense of long, monotonous
roofline expanses.
            (4)   Mechanical equipment mounted on the roof must be screened and
the back of parapets must match the color and materials of the building.
            (5)   The majority of windows are required to relate to the scale
of a person if the windows are adjacent to pedestrian paths of travel.
            (6)   Decorative trim elements that add detail and articulation,
such as windows surrounds with at least a two-inch (2") depth. They must be
designed as an integral part of the design.
         (b)   Materials And Colors:
            (1)   Quality long-lasting materials are required for all buildings
in order to contribute to the value of the community over the long term.
            (2)   A minimum of two (2) colors per elevation are required.
            (3)   Buildings shall incorporate long-lasting materials as accents
or main features such as: brick, stone, cement-fiber stucco, composite panels,
and sustainable alternatives.
            (4)   Metal awnings are prohibited.
      3.   Optional Styles: Single family projects which utilize Spanish/
Mediterranean, Modern, or Americana architectural styles are subject to the
following standards respectively in addition to the objective design standards
in this document and objective development standards in the zoning code.
Proposed projects which do not fall into one of the three (3) styles listed,
the applicant shall provide documentation to the Community Development Director
stating the proposed architectural style, the objective standards of said
architectural style, and the massing, materials, colors, and details of said
architectural style.
         (a)   Spanish/Mediterranean: Spanish architectural style, also known
as Mediterranean or Spanish Revival, is characterized by elements inspired by
the architecture of Spain, including features such as stucco walls, clay tile
roofs, decorative metalwork, and arched windows and doorways. It often
incorporates ornamental details, such as colorful tiles, carved wood accents,
and courtyards, to create a warm and inviting Mediterranean-inspired
atmosphere.
            (1)   Massing And Architectural Elements:
               A.   Front elevations shall have a projecting one- or two-story
volume with minimum width of ten feet (10') and a minimum depth of three feet
(3'). The projecting volume shall either have a forward-facing gable roof form
or a shed roof form.
               B.   When pitched roof forms are used, roofs pitches shall not
exceed 4.5:12 and include exposed rafter tails or cornices.
               C.   When pitched roof forms are included, roofs shall utilize
clay-colored barrel or S-shaped tiles.
               D.   Windows shall be taller than they are wide or square with
rectangular or arched shapes.
               E.   Windows facing the street must include multiple panes or
lites. Tape-on or snap-on mullions and muntins are not permitted.
            (2)   Materials And Colors:
               A.   Exterior body materials shall consist of stucco with a
smooth, sand, or dash finish. Lace, and skip trowel stucco finishes are
prohibited.
               B.   Body colors shall be limited to whites, off-whites, cream,
terra cotta, ochre, and beige.
               C.   Accent colors for structural elements such as exposed
rafters, and balconies shall be deep browns or stained wood finishes.
               D.   Minor accents such as window and door trim or shutters
shall be painted muted shades of blue, green, rust, and burgundy.
               E.   Exterior paving materials may include terra cotta tile,
decorative tile, brick, stone, gravel, or decomposed granite.
            (3)   Ornamentation And Details:
               A.   Projects shall incorporate architectural detailing on all
elevations visible to the public. A minimum of three (3) of the following
ornamental features are required:
                  i.   Decorative tile work around doorways, windows, or stair
risers.
                  ii.   Wrought iron/tubular steel features in the form of
balcony railings or accents over at least twenty percent (20%) of the windows
on an elevation.
                  iii.   Shutters on at least twenty percent (20%) of the
windows of an elevation.
                  iv.   At least one unique, large window (at least twenty five
(25) larger than all other windows) or feature window with an archway.
                  v.   Terra cotta breezeblock openings to garden or courtyard
spaces.
                  vi.   Decorative water feature or fountain.
                  vii.   Canvas awnings with wrought iron supports over at
least ten percent (10%) of the windows and doors on an elevation.
                  viii.   Terra cotta gable vents on all forward-facing gables.
                  ix.   Window boxes, elevated planters, trellises, or
pergolas.
         (b)   Modern: Modern architectural style emerged in the early
twentieth century and emphasizes simplicity, clean lines, horizontality, and
the use of modern materials such as glass, steel, and concrete. It seeks to
create functional and efficient spaces while embracing minimalist design
principles and often blurring the boundaries between indoor and outdoor spaces.
            (1)   Massing And Architectural Elements:
               A.   Building shall utilize a combination of simple geometric
volumes which emphasize clean lines.
               B.   Roofs should be flat and include parapets to screen roof-
mounted equipment. Low-pitched shed roof forms are permitted and shall not
exceed a 3:12 slope. Gable and hip roof forms are prohibited.
               C.   Windows shall consist of a large, rectangular feature
window or grouped, utilizing large uninterrupted panes. Simple rectangular and
circular shapes shall be implemented. Ornate windows or arched windows shall be
prohibited.
               D.   Windows shall be set flush with the exterior wall.
            (2)   Materials And Colors:
               A.   Exterior body materials shall consist of composite panels;
non-terra cotta-colored tiles; textured, corrugated, or smooth metal siding;
stucco with a smooth, sand, or dash finish. Lace, cat face, and skip trowel
stucco finishes are prohibited.
               B.   Buildings shall incorporate modern materials such as glass,
steel, aluminum, composite panels, and sustainable alternatives. Exposed brick,
stone, wood, and concrete as accent materials are permitted.
               C.   Exposed gable vents are prohibited.
            (3)   Characteristic Architectural Features:
               A.   Structures shall be generally without ornamentation and
emphasize clean geometric (usually straight) lines. Overly ornate elements such
as decorative wrought iron is prohibited.
               B.   Projects shall incorporate a minimum of three (3)
architectural features of modern design on publicly visible elevations:
                  i.   Curtain wall or floor to ceiling windows.
                  ii.   Clerestory windows.
                  iii.   Cantilevered roofs with a minimum twenty four inch
(24") overhang.
                  iv.   Projecting fins/wing walls.
                  v.   Breeze block walls.
                  vi.   Metal screens, shades, or roof projections.
                  vii.   Use of four (4) contrasting colors or materials on an
elevation (excluding windows and doors).
                  viii.   A rectangular volume with a minimum dimension of ten
feet (10') (height) by fifteen feet (15') (width) that projects forward from
the main body of the building by a minimum of eighteen inches (18").
                  ix.   At least one unique, large window (at least twenty five
percent (25%) larger than all other windows).
         (c)   Americana: Americana architectural style is a modern
interpretation of American Farmhouse and draws inspiration from traditional
rural farmhouses. It typically features a simple, rectangular massings with a
symmetrical facade, a gable roof, and a welcoming front porch.
            (1)   Massing And Architectural Elements:
               A.   Building shall utilize asymmetrical one-and-a-half (1.5) to
three (3)-story massing with at least one, street-facing gable roof form.
               B.   Individual planes of an elevations facing a public right-
of-way shall be symmetrical. The placement of exterior doors to one side of a
façade plane shall not be considered as breaking from symmetry.
               C.   When gable or shed roof pitches are being used, the pitch
shall be between 2:12 and 6:12. Flat roof forms may be used. Hip roof forms are
prohibited.
               D.   Roof materials on pitched roofs shall utilize dark colored
standing seam metal, flat cement, or composite tiles which mimic the appearance
of wood shingles.
               E.   Windows shall be taller than they are wide. Accent windows
of varying shapes and dimensions are permitted.
               F.   Windows facing the street must include multiple panes or
lites or double-hung casement windows. Tape-on or snap-on mullions and muntins
are not permitted.
               G.   Projects shall include a prominent covered entry or porch.
Porch or patio roofs shall be supported by square, wood posts or columns.
            (2)   Materials And Colors:
               A.   Exterior body materials shall consist of horizontal
clapboard siding, shiplap, or board and batten paneling. Stucco may be
permitted as the body material on primary volumes provided minor volumes are
treated with clapboard, shiplap, or board and batten paneling. Stucco shall
have a smooth, sand, or dash finish. Lace, cat face, and skip trowel stucco
finishes are prohibited.
               B.   Body colors may be earth tones, whites, greys, or muted
blues or greens.
               C.   Accent materials may include brick, stone, board and batten
paneling, shiplap, or clapboard siding. (Ord. 2024-6, 6-17-2024)
11-2-3: MULTI-FAMILY:
   (A)   Purpose: The purpose of the multi-family zoning districts is to allow
areas for medium and high-density residential development that provide a
variety of housing options and opportunities for all residents. These zoning
districts also allow a mixture of other compatible uses including mixed-use
development.
   (B)   Multi-Family Zones:
 
Table 2-4   Multi-Family Zones
Zoning Map Symbol Zoning District Name          General Plan Land Use
                                                Designation
R-2/R-2-A         Medium High Density dwelling  Medium Density; Medium High
                  zone                          Density
R-3/R-3-A         Medium High Density dwelling  Medium High and High Density
                  zone                          Residential
R-4               High Density Multifamily zone High Density Residential
 
   (C)   Permitted Uses:
      1.   The following table sets forth the permits required for each listed
use category.
         (a)   "P" designates permitted uses.
         (b)   "SPR" designates uses that are permitted after review and
approval of a site plan review. This is considered a non-discretionary permit.
         (c)   "DRA" designates uses that are permitted after ministerial
review and approval of a director review and approval process.
         (d)   "CUP" designates uses that are permitted after review and
approval of a conditional use permit.
         (e)   "TUP" designates uses that are permitted after review and
approval of a temporary use permit.
         (f)   "-" designates prohibited uses.
      2.   In cases where a specific land use or activity is not listed as a
permitted use either directly or indirectly, the City Manager or designee may
assign the land use or activity to a classification per Section 11-8-2 (Use
Classifications) are defined in Chapter 8 (Definitions/Use classifications).
Use classifications not listed in the table or not found to be substantially
similar to the uses below are not permitted. The table also notes special
requirements that apply to various uses. Section numbers in the right-hand
column refer to other Sections of this title.
Table 2-5   Permitted Uses
Use Types R-2/R-2 -A R-3/R-3 -A R-4 Special Requirements
Table 2-5   Permitted Uses
Use Types                  R-2/R-2 -A R-3/R-3 -A R-4 Special Requirements
Multi-Family Residences    SPR        SPR        SPR  
Single-Family Residence    P          -          -    
Duplexes                   P          P          P    
Mobile Home Park           CUP        CUP        CUP See Section
                                                     11-3-9 (Mobile Home Parks)
Supportive Housing (Govt   P          P          P    
Code 65651)
Transitional Housing (Govt P          P          P    
Code 65651)
                                                     See Section
Accessory Dwelling Unit    P          P          P   11-4-2 (ADUs and Junior
                                                     ADUs)
Junior Accessory Dwelling                            See Section
Unit                       P          P          P   11-4-2 (ADUs and Junior
                                                     ADUs)
Accessory Structures       P          P          P    
Home Occupations - Minor &                           See Section
Major                      DRA        DRA        DRA 11-4-3 (Home Occupations -
                                                     Minor & Major)
Child Day Care Home, up to                           See Section
14 children                P          P          P   11-4-4 (Child Care
                                                     Facilities)
                                                     See Section
Bed and Breakfast Inns     SPR        SPR        SPR 11-4-12 (Bed and Breakfast
                                                     Inns)
Boarding Home/Group        CUP        SPR        SPR  
Residential
Residential Care, General  SPR        SPR        SPR  
Residential Care, Limited  P          P          P    
Hospice, General           SPR        SPR        SPR  
Hospice, Limited           P          P          P    
Public Facilities          SPR        SPR        SPR  
Religious Facilities       CUP        CUP        -    
Schools, Public or Private CUP        CUP        CUP  
Rest Homes Providing
Housing for Six or Fewer   P          P          P    
Unrelated Persons
Rest Homes Providing
Housing for More than Six  CUP        CUP        CUP  
Unrelated Persons
Employee Housing           P          P          P    
Low Barrier Navigation     SPR        P          P    
Centers (SB 48)
                                                     See section
Emergency Shelter (AB 139) DRA        DRA        DRA 11-8-2(B) (Emergency
                                                     Shelter)
                                                     See section
Mixed-Use Development      CUP        SPR        SPR 11-8-1 (Mixed-Use
                                                     Development)
   Offices (See                                   Only allowed as part of a
   subclassifications                          Mixed Use Development only
   below)2                                        on the first floor of a
                                                     multi-family building3
                                                     Only allowed as part of a
   Medical and Dental,  CUP        CUP        CUP Mixed Use Development only
   Clinic, Laboratory 1                           on the first floor of a
                                                     multi-family building3
                                                     Only allowed as part of a
   Business and         P          P          P   Mixed Use Development only
   Professional3                                  on the first floor of a
                                                     multi-family building3
                                                     Only allowed as part of a
   Walk-In Clientele1   CUP        CUP        CUP Mixed Use Development only
                                                     on the first floor of a
                                                     multi-family building3
   Animal Care, Sales,                            Only allowed as part of a
   and Services (See    -          -          CUP Mixed Use Development only
   subclassifications                             on the first floor of a
   below)3                                        multi-family building3
                                                     Only allowed as part of a
   Grooming, Pet Stores -          CUP        CUP Mixed Use Development only
                                                     on the first floor of a
                                                     multi-family building3
                                                     Only allowed as part of a
   Pet Day Care Services-3         CUP        CUP Mixed Use Development only
                                                     on the first floor of a
                                                     multi-family building3
                                                     Only allowed as part of a
   Banks and Financial  -          -          CUP Mixed Use Development only
   Institutions3                                  on the first floor of a
                                                     multi-family building3
                                                     Only allowed as part of a
   Food and Beverage    -          CUP        SPR Mixed Use Development only
   Sales3                                         on the first floor of a
                                                     multi-family building3
                                                     Only allowed as part of a
   Parking (Private or  -          -          CUP Mixed Use Development only
   Public) 3                                      on the first floor of a
                                                     multi-family building3
                                                     Only allowed as part of a
   Retail Shops and     -          CUP        SPR Mixed Use Development only
   Boutiques3                                     on the first floor of a
                                                     multi-family building3
Open Space, Private        SPR        SPR        SPR  
Open Space, Public         SPR        SPR        SPR  
Outdoor Recreational
Facilities (Public and     SPR        SPR        SPR  
Private
Temporary Uses
   Contractors                                    See Section
   Construction Yard                           11-6-8 (Temporary Use
                                                     Permits (TUP))
                                                     See Section
   On-Location Filming  TUP        TUP        TUP 11-6-8 (Temporary Use
                                                     Permits (TUP))
                                                     See Section
   Seasonal Sales       -          -          -   11-6-8 (Temporary Use
                                                     Permits (TUP))
                                                     See Section
   Temporary Sales Trail-r         -          -   11-6-8 (Temporary Use
                                                     Permits (TUP))
                                                     See section
                                                     11-3-2 (Storage
   Temporary Storage    TUP        TUP        TUP Containers) and
   Container                                      See Section
                                                     11-6-8 (Temporary Use
                                                     Permits (TUP))
                                                     See Section
   Temporary Structure  TUP        TUP        TUP 11-6-8 (Temporary Use
                                                     Permits (TUP))
                                                     See Section
   Temporary Work TraileTUP        TUP        TUP 11-6-80 (Temporary Use
                                                     Permits (TUP))
1.   Pharmacies are permitted as an accessory use but shall not be the primary
use. The site plan submitted for pharmacies must show the relationship of any
pharmacy to surrounding residential uses, if any, and the appearance of
commercial development shall be avoided
2.   Veterinarians are prohibited as an office use in all multi-family zones.
3.   The following uses are only permitted on the first floor of a multi-family
building as part of a mixed-use projects, occupying no more than fifty percent
(50%) of the first floor.
 
   (D)   Development Standards: Development standards for the multi-family
zoning districts shall be as follows:
Table 2-6   Development Standards
Development Standard Zoning Regulation R-2-A and R-2 Comments or Special
District                                             Requirements
Table 2-6   Development Standards
Development                                                                                   Comments or
Standard    Regulation R-2-A and R-2                                                          Special
Zoning                                                                                        Requirements
District
                                                                                              See Section
Minimum Lot 6,000 square feet                                                                 11-3-1
Size                                                                                          (Development
                                                                                              Standards)
            Depth:
            •   100 feet
            •   Lots backing on a freeway or railroad: 130 feet
Minimum Lot Width:
Dimensions  •   60 feet                                                                   
           •   Corner lot: 70 feet
            •   Reverse corner lot: 75 feet
            •   Cul-de-sac or loop out lots: 40 feet, with a minimum lot width building
            setback line of 60 feet
            •   Lots adjacent to freeway or railroad: 80 feet
Maximum Lot 40%                                                                                
Coverage 1
Maximum                                                                                       See Section
Building    45 feet                                                                           11-3-1
Height                                                                                        (Development
                                                                                              Standards)
                                                                                              See Section
Maximum                                                                                       11-3-3
Accessory   16 feet                                                                           (Accessory
Building                                                                                      Buildings
Height                                                                                        and
                                                                                              Structures)
                                                                                              See Section
Height                                                                                        11-3-1(E)
Projections -                                                                                 (Development
                                                                                              Standards-
                                                                                              Projections)
                                                                                              See
            Front yard:                                                                       Additional
            •   20 feet or twenty five percent (25%) of the depth of the lot, whichever iRegulations
            less.                                                                             below
            Side yard:                                                                        See Section
            •   Interior lots: 5 feet                                                    11-3-1
Minimum     •   Multi-story buildings: 10 feet                                           (Development
Yard        •   Corner lot, street side: 15 feet, except for garages and carports which iStandards)
Setbacks    feet:                                                                             See Section
            •   Side yard backing on a freeway or railroad: 25 feet.                     11-2-3(E)
            Rear yard:                                                                        (Multi-
            •   Rear yard for single-story structures: 10 feet.                          Family
            •   Rear yard for multi-story structures adjacent to single-family: 20 feet. Objective
            •   Rear yard backing on a freeway or railroad: 40 feet.                     Design and
                                                                                              Development
                                                                                              Standards)
                                                                                              See Section
Building    Distance between buildings: Determined by the Building Code.                      11-3-3
Separation  Distance between buildings and parking areas: 15 feet.                            (Accessory
                                                                                              Structures)
                                                                                              See
                                                                                              Additional
                                                                                              Regulations
Off-Street                                                                                   below.
Parking                                                                                       See Section
                                                                                              11-3-4 (Off
                                                                                              Street
                                                                                              Parking)
                                                                                              See Section
                                                                                              11-2-3(E)
Private and                                                                                   (Multi-
Common Open                                                                                  Family
Space                                                                                         Objective
                                                                                              Design and
                                                                                              Development
                                                                                              Standards)
1.   The buildable area, or percentage of a lot, which may be occupied by any buildings, shall not exceed
a total amount of forty five percent (45%) except a minor variance of five percent (5%) of the buildable
area or percentage of a lot, which may be occupied by any buildings, may be approved at the discretion of
the Community Development Director where such additional lot coverage will not, in the opinion of the
Community Development Director, adversely affect the aesthetics of the local area. Such variances may be
applied only to structures already possessing a certificate of occupancy that are increasing their
existing lot coverage. Lots exceeding the minimum required area as stated in Subsection I above may be
allowed to use seventy percent (70%) of the excess lot for buildable area, provided that the total lot
coverage does not exceed forty five percent (45%) where such additional lot coverage will not, in the
opinion of the Community Development Director or designee, adversely affect safety or the aesthetics of
the local area.
2.   Subdivisions that abut a railroad or railroad rights-of-way shall be required to construct a seven
(7) foot block wall to mitigate operating noise from railway services.
 
Development Standard Zoning Regulation Comments or Special Requirements
District
R-3-A and R-3                R-4
Development                                                                                                                                                                   Comments or
Standard    Regulation                                                                                                                                                        Special
Zoning                                                                                                                                                                        Requirements
District
R-3-A and R-3                                                                                R-4
                                                                                                                                                                              See Section
Minimum Lot 8,000 square feet                                                                10,000 square feet                                                               11-3-1
Size                                                                                                                                                                          (Development
                                                                                                                                                                              Standards)
            Depth:                                                                           Depth:
            •   120 feet                                                                •   120 feet
            •   Lots backing on a freeway or railroad: 130 feet                         Lots backing on a freeway or railroad: 130 feet
            Width:                                                                           Width:
Minimum Lot •   60 feet                                                                 •   60 feet                                                                  
Dimensions  •   Corner lot: 70 feet                                                     •   Corner lot: 70 feet
            •   Reverse corner lot: 75 feet                                             •   Reverse corner lot: 75 feet
            •   Cul-de-sac or loop out lots: 40 feet fronting, with a minimum lot width •   Cul-de-sac or loop out lots: 40 feet fronting, with a minimum lot width
            building setback line of 60 feet                                                 building setback line of 60 feet
            •   Lots adjacent to freeway or railroad: 80 feet                           •   Lots adjacent to freeway or railroad: 80 feet
Maximum Lot 55%1                                                                             65%2                                                                              
Coverage
Maximum                                                                                                                                                                       See Section
Building    35 feet4                                                                         45 feet                                                                          11-3-1
Height                                                                                                                                                                        (Development
                                                                                                                                                                              Standards)
Maximum                                                                                                                                                                       See Section
Accessory   16 feet                                                                          16 feet                                                                          11-3-3
Building                                                                                                                                                                      (Accessory
Height                                                                                                                                                                        Structures)
                                                                                                                                                                              See Section
                                                                                                                                                                              11-3-1(F)
Height      -                                                                                -                                                                                (Development
Projections                                                                                                                                                                   Standards-
                                                                                                                                                                              Projection
                                                                                                                                                                              s)
                                                                                                                                                                              See
            Front yard:                                                                      Front yard:                                                                      Additional
            •   15 feet or twenty five percent (25%) of the depth of the lot, whichever •   15 feet or twenty five percent (25%) of the depth of the lot, whichever Regulations
            less                                                                             less                                                                             below
            Side yard:                                                                       Side yard:                                                                       See Section
            •   Interior lots: 5 feet                                                   •   Interior lots: 5 feet                                                   11-3-1
Minimum     •   Multi-story buildings: 10 feet                                          •   Multi-story buildings: 10 feet                                          (Development
Yard        •   Corner lot, street side: 15 feet, except for garages and carports which •   Corner lot, street side: 15 feet, except for garages and carports which Standards)
Setbacks    20 feet:                                                                         20 feet:                                                                         See Section
            •   Side yard backing on a freeway or railroad: 25 feet                     •   Side yard backing on a freeway or railroad: 25 feet                     11-2-3(E)
            Rear yard:                                                                       Rear yard:                                                                       (Multi-
            •   Rear yard for single-story structures: 10 feet                          •   Rear yard for single-story structures: 10 feet                          Family
            •   Rear yard for multi-story structures adjacent to single-family: 20 feet •   Rear yard for multi-story structures adjacent to single-family: 20 feet Objective
            •   Rear yard backing on a freeway or railroad: 40 feet                     •   Rear yard backing on a freeway or railroad: 40 feet                     Design and
                                                                                                                                                                              Development
                                                                                                                                                                              Standards)
                                                                                                                                                                              See Section
Building    Distance between buildings: Determined by the Building Code.                     Distance between buildings: Determined by the Building Code                      11-3-3
Separation  Distance between buildings and parking areas: 15 feet.                                                                                                            (Accessory
                                                                                                                                                                              Structures)
Off Street Parking                                                                           See Section
                                                                                             11-3-4 (Off Street Parking)
Private and Common Open Space                                                                See Section
                                                                                             11-2-3(E) (Multi-Family Objective Design and Development Standards)
1.   The buildable area, or percentage of a lot, which may be occupied by any and all buildings, shall not exceed fifty five percent (55%) except a minor variance of five percent (5%) of
the buildable area or percentage of a lot, which may be occupied by any buildings, may be approved at the discretion of the Community Development Director where such additional lot
coverage will not, in the opinion of the Community Development Director, adversely affect the aesthetics of the local area. Such variances may be applied only to structures already
possessing a certificate of occupancy that are increasing their existing lot coverage. Lots exceeding the minimum required area as stated in Subsection I above may be allowed to use
seventy percent (70%) of the excess lot for buildable area, provided that the total lot coverage does not exceed fifty five percent (55%) where such additional lot coverage will not, in
the opinion of the Community Development Director or designee, adversely affect safety or the aesthetics of the local area.
2.   The buildable area, or percentage of a lot, which may be occupied by any and all buildings, shall not exceed a total amount of sixty five percent (65%) except at the discretion of
the Community Development Director. The buildable area may exceed sixty five percent (65%) where such additional lot coverage will not, in the opinion of the Community Development
Director or designee, adversely affect safety or the aesthetics of the local area.
3.   Subdivisons that abut a railroad or railroad rights-of-way shall be required to construct a seven (7) foot block wall to mitigate operating noise from railway services.
4.   In R-3 exceedance of the height standard will be granted upon the approval of a Conditional Use Permit (subject to section
11-6-7) not to exceed the maximum height requirement of R-4.
5.   All housing element inventory sites identified in Table 1O-7 (Vacant and Underutilized Sites, Rezone Sites) of the City's 2023-2031 Housing Element or by the Department of General
Services Housing and Local Land Development Opportunities Map shall comply with State law. In particular:
   a)   Any sites rezoned after the start of the planning period, proposed to be developed at a minimum density of 20 dwelling units per acre, and providing at least 20% of the total
units in the development as affordable to lower income households are eligible for by-right approval as defined in Government Code Section 65583.2(h) and (i).
   b)   Any sites being used to accommodate the current lower-income RHNA that are nonvacant and were identified in the previous planning period or vacant and identified in two or more
previous consecutive planning periods, providing appropriate densities and providing at least 20% of the total units in the development as affordable to lower income households shall be
permitted by right consistent with Government Code Section 65583.2(i).
 
   (E)   Multi-Family Objective Design Standards: Multi-family and mixed-use
projects which utilize Spanish/Mediterranean, Modern, or Americana
architectural styles are subject to the following standards respectively in
addition to the objective design standards in this document and objective
development standards in the zoning code. Proposed projects which do not fall
into one of the three styles listed, the applicant shall provide documentation
to the Community Development Director stating the proposed architectural style,
the objective standards of said architectural style, and the massing,
materials, colors, and details of said architectural style.
      1.   General Styles:
         (a)   Massing And Architectural Elements:
            (1)   One of the following architectural elements that add visual
interest, scale, and character, such as recessed or projecting balconies,
trellises, recessed windows, verandas, and porches.
            (2)   Individual planes of an elevation facing a public right-of-
way shall be symmetrical. The placement of exterior doors to one side of a
façade plane shall not be considered as breaking from symmetry.
            (3)   Vertical articulation and horizontal articulation must be
used in designs, when applicable, to mitigate the impact on surrounding
development and the overall landscape.
            (4)   Building shall utilize a combination of simple geometric
volumes which emphasize clean lines.
            (5)   Mechanical equipment mounted on the roof must be screened and
the back of parapets must match the color and materials of the building.
            (6)   Windows shall be taller than they are wide. Accent windows of
varying shapes and dimensions are permitted.
            (7)   Use window styles with one of the following details including
trim, shutters, flower boxes, and balconies to articulate the façade.
            (8)   For building with two (2) or more stories, locate windows
where they will not directly align with existing neighboring windows, to the
extent feasible for any particular room.
            (9)   Window and door type, material, shape, and proportion shall
be dictated by the architectural style of the building.
            (10)   All light fixtures shall be architecturally compatible with
the building design.
            (11)   Security lighting fixtures should not project above the
fascia or roofline of the building and not be substituted for parking lot or
walkway lighting fixtures.
         (b)   Materials And Colors:
            (1)   Quality long-lasting materials are required for all
buildings. Exterior wall materials shall include at least two (2) of the
following materials: concrete based wood siding, concrete based shingle siding,
stucco, brick, and stone.
            (2)   A minimum of three colors per elevation are required.
            (3)   Use contrasting colors to accentuate details such as trim,
windows, doors, and key architectural elements.
      2.   Optional Styles: Multi-family projects which utilize Spanish/
Mediterranean, Modern, or Americana architectural styles are subject to the
following standards respectively in addition to the objective design standards
in this document and objective development standards in the zoning code.
Proposed projects which do not fall into one of the three (3) styles listed,
the applicant shall provide documentation to the Community Development Director
stating the proposed architectural style, the objective standards of said
architectural style, and the massing, materials, colors, and details of said
architectural style.
         (a)   Spanish/Mediterranean: Spanish architectural style, also known
as Mediterranean or Spanish Revival, is characterized by elements inspired by
the architecture of Spain, including features such as stucco walls, clay tile
roofs, decorative metalwork, and arched windows and doorways. It often
incorporates ornamental details, such as colorful tiles, carved wood accents,
and courtyards, to create a warm and inviting Mediterranean-inspired
atmosphere.
            (1)   Massing And Architectural Elements:
               A.   Each publicly-facing elevation shall have a projecting one-
or two-story volume with minimum width of ten feet (10') and a minimum depth of
three feet (3'). The projecting volume shall either have a forward-facing gable
roof form or a shed roof form. Building massing shall create a usable courtyard
space enclosed on at least one side or one or more terrace(s).
               B.   When pitched roof forms are used, roofs pitches shall not
exceed 4.5:12 and include exposed rafter tails or cornices.
               C.   When pitched roof forms are included, roofs shall utilize
clay-colored barrel or S-shaped tiles.
               D.   Windows shall be taller than they are wide or square with
rectangular or arched shapes.
               E.   Windows facing the street must include multiple panes or
lites. Tape-on or snap-on mullions and muntins are not permitted.
            (2)   Materials And Colors:
               A.   Exterior body materials shall consist of stucco with a
smooth, sand, or dash finish. Lace, and skip trowel stucco finishes are
prohibited.
               B.   Body colors shall be limited to whites, off-whites, cream,
terra cotta, ochre, and beige.
               C.   Accent colors for structural elements such as exposed
rafters, and balconies shall be deep browns or stained wood finishes.
               D.   Minor accents such as window and door trim or shutters
shall be painted muted shades of blue, green, rust, and burgundy.
               E.   Exterior paving materials may include terra cotta tile,
decorative tile, brick, stone, gravel, or decomposed granite.
            (3)   Ornamentation And Details:
               A.   Projects shall incorporate architectural detailing on all
elevations visible to the public. A minimum of three (3) of the following
ornamental features are required:
                  i.   Decorative tile work around doorways, windows, or stair
risers.
                  ii.   Wrought iron/tubular steel features in the form of
balcony railings or accents over at least twenty percent (20%) of the windows
on an elevation.
                  iii.   Shutters on at least twenty percent (20%) of the
windows of an elevation.
                  iv.   At least one unique, large window (at least twenty five
(25) larger than all other windows) or feature window with an archway.
                  v.   Terra cotta breezeblock openings to garden or courtyard
spaces.
                  vi.   Decorative water feature or fountain.
                  vii.   Canvas awnings with wrought iron supports over at
least ten percent (10%) of the windows and doors on an elevation.
                  viii.   Terra cotta gable vents on all forward-facing gables.
                  ix.   Window boxes, elevated planters, trellises, or pergolas
         (b)   Modern: Modern architectural style emerged in the early
twentieth century and emphasizes simplicity, clean lines, horizontality, and
the use of modern materials such as glass, steel, and concrete. It seeks to
create functional and efficient spaces while embracing minimalist design
principles and often blurring the boundaries between indoor and outdoor spaces.
            (1)   Massing And Architectural Elements:
               A.   Building shall utilize a combination of simple geometric
volumes which emphasize clean lines.
               B.   Roofs should be flat and include parapets to screen roof-
mounted equipment. Low-pitched shed roof forms are permitted and shall not
exceed a 3:12 slope. Gable and hip roof forms are prohibited.
               C.   Windows shall consist of a large, rectangular feature
window or grouped, utilizing large uninterrupted panes. Simple rectangular and
circular shapes shall be implemented. Ornate windows or arched windows shall be
prohibited.
               D.   Windows shall be set flush with the exterior wall.
            (2)   Materials And Colors:
               A.   Exterior body materials shall consist of composite panels;
non-terra cotta-colored tiles; textured, corrugated, or smooth metal siding;
stucco with a smooth, sand, or dash finish. Lace, cat face, and skip trowel
stucco finishes are prohibited.
               B.   Buildings shall incorporate modern materials such as glass,
steel, aluminum, composite panels, and sustainable alternatives. Exposed brick,
stone, wood, and concrete as accent materials are permitted.
               C.   Exposed gable vents are prohibited.
            (3)   Characteristic Architectural Features:
               A.   Structures shall be generally without ornamentation and
emphasize clean geometric (usually straight) lines. Overly ornate elements such
as decorative wrought iron is prohibited.
               B.   Projects shall incorporate a minimum of three (3)
architectural features of modern design on publicly visible elevations:
                  i.   Curtain wall or floor to ceiling windows.
                  ii.   Clerestory windows.
                  iii.   Cantilevered roofs with a minimum of twenty four inch
(24") overhang.
                  iv.   Projecting fins/wing walls.
                  v.   Breeze block walls.
                  vi.   Metal screens, shades, or roof projections.
                  vii.   Use of four (4) contrasting colors or materials on an
elevation (excluding windows and doors).
                  viii.   A rectangular volume with a minimum dimension of ten
feet (10') (height) by fifteen feet (15') (width) that projects forward from
the main body of the building by a minimum of eighteen inches (18").
                  ix.   At least one unique, large window (at least twenty five
percent (25%) larger than all other windows).
         (c)   Americana: Americana architectural style is a modern
interpretation of American Farmhouse and draws inspiration from traditional
rural farmhouses. It typically features a simple, rectangular massings with a
symmetrical facade, a gable roof, and a welcoming front porch.
            (1)   Massing And Architectural Elements:
               A.   Building shall utilize asymmetrical one-and-a-half (1.5) to
three (3)-story massing with at least one, street-facing gable roof form.
               B.   Individual planes of an elevation facing a public right-of-
way shall be symmetrical. The placement of exterior doors to one side of a
façade plane shall not be considered as breaking from symmetry.
               C.   When gable or shed roof pitches are being used, the pitch
shall be between 2:12 and 6:12. Flat roof forms may be used. Hip roof forms are
prohibited.
               D.   Roof materials on pitched roofs shall utilize dark colored
standing seam metal, flat cement, or composite tiles which mimic the appearance
of wood shingles.
               E.   Windows shall be taller than they are wide. Accent windows
of varying shapes and dimensions are permitted.
               F.   Windows facing the street must include multiple panes or
lites or double-hung casement windows. Tape-on or snap-on mullions and muntins
are not permitted.
               G.   Projects shall include a prominent covered entry or porch.
Porch or patio roofs shall be supported by square, wood posts or columns.
            (2)   Materials And Colors:
               A.   Exterior body materials shall consist of horizontal
clapboard siding, shiplap, or board and batten paneling. Stucco may be
permitted as the body material on primary volumes provided minor volumes are
treated with clapboard, shiplap, or board and batten paneling. Stucco shall
have a smooth, sand, or dash finish. Lace, cat face, and skip trowel stucco
finishes are prohibited.
               B.   Body colors may be earth tones, whites, greys, or muted
blues or greens.
               C.   Accent materials may include brick, stone, board and batten
paneling, shiplap, or clapboard siding.
   (F)   Additional Regulations:
      1.   R-2-A/R-2 Zones:
         (a)   Site Planning;
            (1)   Every lot shall have a front yard with a minimum depth of
twenty feet (20'), extending across the full width of the lot, or twenty five
percent (25%) of the depth of the lot, whichever is less, except that when a
lot is adjacent to or abuts a lot fronting on the same street zoned R-A, R-1-7,
R-1-7, R-1-9, or R-1-12, the required front yard setback of the adjacent or
abutting lot shall apply for a minimum distance of the first fifty feet (50')
extending across the front of the lot.
            (2)   Side Yard Oriented Dwellings: In addition to the regulations
specified in the table above, the following regulations shall apply when
dwelling units front or rear upon side yards:
               A.   When dwelling units rear upon a side yard with direct
access by door to the dwelling unit, the required side yard shall be ten feet
(10'). Porches and steps shall be permitted, provided, not less than five feet
(5') of the width of the required side yard shall be completely free of
structures. Side yards shall not be used for parking.
               B.   When dwelling units front upon a side yard, the required
width of the side yard shall not be less than fifteen feet (15'). Porches and
steps shall be permitted. Side yards shall not be used for parking.
         (b)   Off Street Parking:
            (1)   All parking spaces shall be accessible from a driveway
connecting with a public way. Off street parking facilities for five (5) or
more spaces shall be designed so that vehicles do not have to back into a
street or into a public way.
            (2)   Parking spaces shall be provided with continuous concrete
curbing, acting as wheel stops at the ends of spaces when abutting buildings or
landscape areas, or other parking spaces. Vehicles shall be permitted to
overhang a maximum of two feet (2') when adjacent to a minimum landscaped area
or sidewalk of six feet (6') or more in width.
            (3)   The parking of inoperable vehicles, towable trailers and
boats and vehicles with a rating in excess of one ton in open or carport spaces
shall not be permitted.
            (4)   There shall be adequate on-site turning areas, with all-
weather surfaces, on lots facing on and having access to major and secondary
highways to permit motor vehicles to head into the street.
         (c)   Private Open Space:
            (1)   Private open space provided for individual dwelling units
shall be a minimum of one hundred seventy-five (175) square feet for first
floor units as ground floor private open space or eighty (80) square feet
minimum for second floor units as balconies.
            (2)   Of the required private open space, each patio or balcony
shall contain a minimum dimension of six feet (6') by nine feet (9').
         (d)   Common Open Space:
            (1)   On each site developed with multi-family buildings, there
shall be provided landscaped and usable common open space for recreational and
leisure activities equaling at least three hundred (300) square feet per
dwelling unit, with a minimum of twenty five percent (25%) of the lot coverage
of the total development site.
            (2)   Common open space should be a minimum of twelve feet (12') in
its smallest horizontal dimension and should not be less than one hundred
seventy-five (175) square feet in total area.
      2.   R-3-A/R-3 Zones:
         (a)   Site Planning:
            (1)   The subject use is similar to other uses permitted in the
district within which it is proposed to be allowed; The minimum area of a lot
shall be six thousand (6,000) square feet, except that corner lots shall
contain seven thousand (7,000) square feet of area and reversed corner lots
shall contain seven thousand five hundred (7,500) square feet of area.
            (2)   Every lot shall have a front yard with a minimum depth of
fifteen (15'), extending across the full width of the lot, or twenty five
percent (25%) of the depth of the lot, whichever is less, except that when a
lot is adjacent to or abuts a lot fronting on the same street zoned R-A, R-1-4,
R-1-7, R-1-9, or R-1-12, the required front yard setback of the adjacent or
abutting lot shall apply for a minimum distance of the first fifty feet (50')
extending across the front of the lot.
         (b)   Off Street Parking:
            (1)   All parking spaces shall be accessible from a driveway
connecting with a public way. Off street parking facilities for five (5) or
more spaces shall be designed so that vehicles do not have to back into a
street or into a public way.
            (2)   Parking spaces shall be provided with continuous concrete
curbing, acting as wheel stops at the ends of spaces when abutting buildings or
landscape areas, or other parking spaces. Vehicles shall be permitted to
overhang a maximum of two feet (2') when adjacent to a minimum landscaped area
or sidewalk of six feet (6') or more in width.
            (3)   The parking of inoperable vehicles, towable trailers and
boats and vehicles with a rating in excess of one ton in open or carport spaces
shall not be permitted.
            (4)   There shall be adequate on-site turning areas, with all-
weather surfaces, on lots facing on and having access to major and secondary
highways to permit motor vehicles to head into the street.
         (c)   Private Open Space:
            (1)   Private open space provided for individual dwelling units
shall be a minimum of one hundred fifty (150) square feet for first floor units
as ground floor private open space or sixty (60) square feet minimum for second
floor units as balconies.
            (2)   Of the required private open space, each patio or balcony
shall contain a minimum dimension of six feet (6') by nine feet (9').
         (d)   Common Open Space
            (1)   On each site developed with multi-family buildings, there
shall be provided landscaped and usable common open space for recreational and
leisure activities equaling at least three hundred (300) square feet per
dwelling unit, with a minimum of twenty five percent (25%) of the lot coverage
of the total development site.
            (2)   Common open space should be a minimum of twelve feet (12') in
its smallest horizontal dimension and should not be less than one hundred
seventy-five (175) square feet in total area.
      3.   R-4 Zone:
         (a)   Site Planning:
            (1)   The subject use is similar to other uses permitted in the
district within which it is proposed to be allowed; The minimum area of a lot
shall be six thousand (6,000) square feet, except that corner lots shall
contain seven thousand (7,000) square feet of area and reversed corner lots
shall contain seven thousand five hundred (7,500) square feet of area.
            (2)   Every lot shall have a front yard with a minimum depth of
fifteen (15'), extending across the full width of the lot, or twenty five
percent (25%) of the depth of the lot, whichever is less, except that when a
lot is adjacent to or abuts a lot fronting on the same street zoned R-A, R-1,
R-1-9, or R-1-12, the required front yard setback of the adjacent or abutting
lot shall apply for a minimum distance of the first fifty feet (50') extending
across the front of the lot.
         (b)   Off Street Parking:
            (1)   All parking spaces shall be accessible from a driveway
connecting with a public way. Off street parking facilities for five (5) or
more spaces shall be designed so that vehicles do not have to back into a
street or into a public way.
            (2)   Parking spaces shall be provided with continuous concrete
curbing, acting as wheel stops at the ends of spaces when abutting buildings or
landscape areas, or other parking spaces. Vehicles shall be permitted to
overhang a maximum of two feet (2') when adjacent to a minimum landscaped area
or sidewalk of six feet (6') or more in width.
            (3)   The parking of inoperable vehicles, towable trailers and
boats and vehicles with a rating in excess of one ton in open or carport spaces
shall not be permitted.
            (4)   There shall be adequate on-site turning areas, with all-
weather surfaces, on lots facing on and having access to major and secondary
highways to permit motor vehicles to head into the street.
            (5)   The Community Development Director or designee has discretion
to reduce off-street parking requirements by up to fifteen percent (15%) where
such reduction is needed to meet other building requirements or to improve
overall project design.
         (c)   Private Open Space
            (1)   Private open space provided for individual dwelling units
shall be a minimum of (60) square feet minimum for second floor and higher
units as balconies.
         (d)   Common Open Space:
            (1)   On each site developed with multi-family buildings, there
shall be provided landscaped and usable common open space for recreational and
leisure activities equaling at least three hundred (300) square feet per
dwelling unit, with a minimum of twenty five percent (25%) of the lot coverage
of the total development site.
            (2)   Common open space should be a minimum of twelve feet (12') in
its smallest horizontal dimension and should not be less than one hundred
seventy-five (175) square feet in total area. (Ord. 2024-6, 6-17-2024; amd.
Ord. 2025-03, 4-15-2025)
11-2-4: COMMERCIAL:
   (A)   Purpose: The purpose of the commercial (C) zoning district is to
provide sites for a full range of convenient retail and service uses needed to
accommodate Selma residents and visitors.
   (B)   Zones: The commercial land uses shall promote a full range of
commercial activity appropriate for the community.
      1.   Neighborhood Commercial (C-1): This designation includes convenience
commercial and neighborhood shopping centers providing a range of necessary
day-to-day retail goods and services. This designation also includes the
development of non-retail businesses and professional offices.
      2.   Community Commercial (C-2): The designation includes sites for a
wide range of retail commercial uses that have a broad customer base as well as
smaller retail and service businesses.
      3.   Commercial Service (C-3): This designation includes a wide range of
commercial activities that include business with both retail and service
components.
      4.   Commercial Regional (C-R): This designation is designed to provide
development opportunities for those uses that attract customers from the
region.
      5.   Highway Commercial (C-H): This designation includes several types of
uses distinguishable because of their service orientation to the highway
traveler. Highway Commercial designations are limited to the areas surrounding
the SR 99 interchanges.
      6.   Central Business District (CBD): The purpose of the Central Business
District (CBD) is to foster the appropriate downtown businesses, shopping,
dining, and other related uses through the continued use of existing structures
and enable compatible enhancement and redevelopment where reuse is not
feasible.
      7.   Planned Medical Development (P-M-D): This designation is designed to
provide development opportunities for medical oriented offices and businesses
in close proximity to the existing hospital. The clustering of medical related
professional services will provide convenient access to the public and to the
professionals who provide the services.
   (C)   Permitted Uses:
      1.   The following table sets forth the permits required for each listed
use category.
         (a)   "P" designates allowed uses.
         (b)   "SPR" designates uses that are permitted after review and
approval of a site plan review process. This is considered non-discretionary.
         (c)   "DRA" designates uses that are permitted after a director review
and approval of a project application. This is a discretionary permit.
         (d)   "CUP" designates uses that are permitted after review and
approval of a conditional use permit application. This is a discretionary
permit.
         (e)   "TUP" designates uses that are permitted after review and
approval of a temporary use permit.
         (f)   "-" designates prohibited uses.
In cases where a specific land use or activity is not listed as a permitted use
either directly or indirectly, the City Manager or designee may assign the land
use or activity to a classification per Section
11-8-2 (Use Classifications).
Table 2-7   Permitted Uses
Use Types C-1 C-2 C-3 C-R C-H PMD CBD Special Requirements (if any)
Table 2-7   Permitted Uses
Use Types                C-1  C-2 C-3 C-R C-H PMD CBD Special Requirements (if
                                                      any)
Residential Uses
                                                      Residential uses shall be
Multi-Family Residences  SPR  SPR SPR SPR CUP     P   on the second floor of
                                                      mixed use projects
Single-Family Residence  -    -   -   -   -   -   -    
Duplexes                 -    -   -   -   -   -   -    
Supportive Housing       SPR  -   -   -   -   -   -    
Transitional Housing     SPR  -   -   -   -   -   -    
Accessory Dwelling Unit  -    -   -   -   -   -   -    
Junior Accessory         -    -   -   -   -   -   -    
Dwelling Unit
Home Occupations - Minor -    -   -   -   -   -   -    
& Major
Family Day Care Home   -
   Large              SPR  CUP -   -   -   -   SPR  
                                                      See Section
   Small              SPR  CUP -   -   -   -   SPR 11-4-4  (Child Care
                                                      Facilities)
                                                      See Section
Bed and Breakfast Inns   CUP  -   -   -   -   -   -   11-4-12  (Bed and
                                                      Breakfast Inns)
Boarding Home/Group      -    -   -   -   -   -   -    
Residential
Residential Care,        SPR  -   -   -   -   -   -    
Limited
Hospice, Limited         SPR  -   -   -   -   SPR -    
Rest Homes Providing
Housing for Six or Fewer SPR  -   -   -   -   SPR -    
Unrelated Persons
Rest Homes Providing
Housing for More than    SPR  SPR -   -   -   SPR -    
Six Unrelated Persons
Employee Housing         -    -   -   -   -   -   -    
Low Barrier Navigation   -    -   -   -   -   -   -   See Section
Centers                                               11-8-2 (B) (LBNC)
                                                      See section
Emergency Shelter        SPR  -   -   -   -   -   -   11-8-2 (B) (Emergency
                                                      Shelter)
Animal Care, Sales, and Services (see subclassifications below)
   Grooming, Pet StoreSPR  SPR -   -   -   -   SPR  
   Pet Day Care ServicSPR  SPR -   -   -   -   SPR  
   Veterinary Services-    SPR -   -   -   SPR -    
   Kennel/Overnight   -    CUP CUP CUP -   -   -    
Boarding
Art Galleries            SPR  SPR -   -   -   -   SPR  
Automobile Part and      SPR  SPR SPR SPR -   -   -    
Supply Stores
Automotive Fuels and     SPR  SPR SPR SPR -   -   -    
Recharging Facilities
Automobile Dealerships   -    CUP SPR SPR CUP -   -    
Service Stations              CUP SPR     CUP          
Banks and Financial      SPR  SPR SPR SPR -   -   SPR  
Institutions
                                                      See Section
Bars/Nightclubs/Lounges  -    -   CUP CUP CUP -   CUP 11-4-7  (Alcoholic
                                                      Beverage Sales)
Cannabis Dispensaries    -    -   -   -   -   -   -   See Section
and Testing Facilities                                11-4-11  (Cannabis)
Car Wash and Detail      -    SPR SPR SPR SPR -   -    
Services
Community Gardens and    SPR- -   -   -   -   -   SPR  
Farmers Markets
Nurseries                SPR  SPR                 SPR  
Convenience and Food                                  See Section
Stores Under 3,000       SPR  SPR SPR SPR SPR -   SPR 11-4-7  (Alcoholic
Square Feet                                           Beverage Sales)
Convention and           -    -   CUP CUP CUP -   -    
Conference Centers
Drive Through facilities CUP  CUP SPR SPR CUP -   CUP  
Entertainment Facilities -    -   -   -   -   -   -    
   Large-Scale        -    CUP CUP CUP CUP -   CUP  
   Small-Scale        SPR  SPR SPR SPR SPR -   DRA  
General Merchandise      -    SPR SPR SPR -   -   SPR  
Stores
Gun and Ammo Sales       -    CUP CUP CUP CUP -   -    
                                                      See Section
Eating and Drinking                                   11-4-7  (Alcoholic
Establishments           -    SPR SPR SPR SPR -   SPR Beverage Sales)
(Restaurants)                                         See Section
                                                      11-4-6  (Outdoor Dining)
                                                      CUP required for fitness
Fitness Centers          -    CUP SPR SPR -   -   CUP centers over 12,500
                                                      square feet
Food and Beverage Sales  SPR  SPR SPR SPR SPR -   SPR  
Home Goods and Hardware  -    SPR SPR SPR -   -   -    
Stores
                                                      CUP required for
Hospitals and Clinics    -    -   CUP CUP CUP DRA CUP psychiatric and chemical
                                                      dependence hospital
Hotel                    -    CUP CUP CUP CUP -   CUP  
Mixed Use Development    SPR  SPR SPR SPR CUP CUP SPR  
Motel                    -    CUP CUP CUP CUP -   -    
Machine Sales and        -    SPR SPR SPR -   -   -    
Rentals
Mortuary                 -    -   SPR SPR -   -   -    
Offices (see subclassifications below)
Medical and Dental,      -    CUP SPR SPR SPR SPR CUP CUP required for 24 hr.
Clinic, Laboratory                                    outpatient clinic
Business and             SPR  SPR SPR SPR SPR DRA SPR  
Professional
Walk-In Clientele        SPR  SPR SPR SPR SPR -   SPR  
On-Site and Off-Site
Sales of Beer, Wine, and -    CUP CUP CUP CUP -   CUP Includes microbrewery and
Liquor (includes                                      micro-distilleries
Breweries)
Parking (Private or                                   See Section
Public)                  SPR  SPR SPR SPR SPR -   P   11-3-4  (Off Street
                                                      Parking)
Pawn Shops               -    CUP SPR SPR     -   CUP  
Personal Services        SPR  SPR SPR SPR SPR -   SPR  
Public Facilities        SPR  SPR SPR SPR SPR -   SPR  
Pharmacies and Drug      SPR  SPR SPR CUP CUP SPR      
Stores
Religious Facilities     -    CUP CUP SPR     -   CUP  
Retail Shops and         SPR  SPR SPR SPR SPR -   SPR CUP required for Resell
Boutiques                                             of used items
Tattoo or Body Parlor    CUP  SPR SPR SPR     -   CUP  
                                                      Warehouse excludes
Wholesale and Warehouse  -    -   SPR SPR CUP -   -   storage of flammable
                                                      liquids and explosives
Open Space, Private      -    -   SPR SPR -   -   -    
Open Space, Public       -    -   SPR SPR -   -   -    
Outdoor Recreational
Facilities (Public and   -    -   SPR SPR     -   -    
Private)
                                                      See Section
Temporary Uses:                                       11-6-8  (Temporary Use
                                                      Permits (TUP))
Contractors Construction                              See Section
Yard                     -    -   TUP TUP TUP -   -   11-6-8  (Temporary Use
                                                      Permits (TUP))
                                                      See Section
On-Location Filming      TUP  TUP TUP TUP TUP TUP TUP 11-6-8  (Temporary Use
                                                      Permits (TUP))
                                                      See Section
Seasonal Sales           TUP  TUP TUP TUP TUP -   -   11-6-8  (Temporary Use
                                                      Permits (TUP))
                                                      See Section
Temporary Sales Trailer  TUP  TUP TUP TUP TUP -   -   11-6-8  (Temporary Use
                                                      Permits (TUP))
                                                      See section
                                                      11-3-2  (Storage
Temporary Storage        TUP  TUP TUP TUP TUP -   -   Containers) and
Container                                             See Section
                                                      11-6-8  (Temporary Use
                                                      Permits (TUP))
                                                      See Section
Temporary Structure      TUP  TUP TUP TUP TUP TUP TUP 11-6-8  (Temporary Use
                                                      Permits (TUP))
                                                      See Section
Temporary Work Trailer   TUP  TUP TUP TUP TUP TUP TUP 11-6-8  (Temporary Use
                                                      Permits (TUP))
Notes: Use classifications not listed in the table or not found to be
substantially similar to the uses below are not permitted.
Limitations on Uses (applies to all districts and uses)
1.   No businesses dealing in wholesale or used goods or commodities shall be
permitted, except in the case of articles taken in trade or sale of new
merchandise on same premises. Thrift stores shall be an exception to this
subsection. (Ord. 743, 4-5-1976)
2.   No products shall be made unless incident to a permitted use and sold at
retail on the same premises.
3.   When any exterior wall of a building faces a street or property classified
in any R zone, all exterior walls thereof shall be treated and finished in a
similar manner.
4.   When an exterior wall of a building faces abutting property in an R zone,
no sign shall be placed on such wall or on any portion of the lot between the
wall and the R zone. (Ord. 533, 6-5-1961)
5.   In areas which are immediately adjacent to residences located in R zones,
there shall be no loading to or unloading from vehicles or conveyances between
the hours of nine o'clock (9:00) P.M. and six o'clock (6:00) A.M., excepting
perishable goods and items related thereto in the sale or processing thereof.
(Ord. 662, 6-16-1969)
6.   No more than two service stations may be located on the corners of the
same intersection.
 
   (D)   Commercial Development Standards:
Table 2-8   Development Standards
Development Standard C-1 C-2 C-3 C-R C-H PMD CBD Comments
Table 2-8   Development Standards
Development C-1         C-2         C-3       C-R       C-H       PMD         CBD  Comments
Standard
Minimum Lot             20,000      20,000    5 acres   20,000    20,000
Size        1 acre      square feet square    regional  square    square feet N/A   
                                    feet                feet
Minimum Lot N/A         N/A         N/A       N/A       N/A       N/A         N/A   
Dimensions
Maximum Lot 40%         60%         75%       60%       70%       40%         100%  
Coverage
            35 feet     75 feet                                   20 feet
            Adjacent to Adjacent to                               Adjacent to
            residential residential                               residential
Maximum     use: Shall  use: Shall                                use: Shall
Building    not exceed  not exceed  N/A       75 feet   N/A       not exceed  75    
Height      twice the   twice the                                 twice the   feet
            distance to distance to                               distance to
            the nearest the nearest                               the nearest
            property    property                                  property
            line        line                                      line
                                              Front
                                    Front     Yard: 15  Front
            Front Yard:             Yard: 15  ft or 10% Yard: 15  Front Yard:
            15 ft or                ft or 10% of lot    ft or 10% 15 ft or
            10% of lot              of lot    depth     of lot    10% of lot
Minimum     depth                   depth     Side      depth     depth
Yard        Side        N/A         Side      Interior: Side      Side        N/A   
Setbacks    Interior:               Interior: None      Interior: Interior:
            None                    None      Rear      None      None
            Rear Yard:              Rear      Yard: 10  Rear      Rear Yard:
            None                    Yard:     ft. Rear  Yard:     None
                                    None      Yard with None
                                              alley:
                                              None
Building    N/A         N/A         N/A       N/A       N/A       N/A         N/A   
Separation
                                                                                   See
                                                                                   Additional
                                                                                   Regulations
Off-Street                                                                  below. See
Parking                                                                            Section
                                                                                   11-3-4
                                                                                   (Off Street
                                                                                   Parking)
Notes: Side interior yard setback shall be 5 ft when the side property line abuts a
residential property.
 
(Ord. 2024-6, 6-17-2024)
If there is uncertainty as to any boundary of any zone, the following rules
shall apply:
   (A)   Where such boundary is shown as approximately following the line of
any street, alley, or other public way, or any lot line, such line shall be
deemed to be such boundary.
   (B)   Where such boundary does not follow any existing line, as mentioned in
subsection (A) of this section, the location of same shall be as shown by the
dimensions indicated on the zoning map, if any, or by use of the scale
appearing thereon.
   (C)   If any part of any public street, alley or way is officially vacated
or abandoned, the regulations applicable to any adjoining property to which it
may revert shall apply to such part of the vacated or abandoned street, alley
or way.
   (D)   If any land is not shown on the zoning map as within a zone, or if any
land is annexed to or consolidated with the city subsequent to the effective
date of this title, it shall be deemed to be within an R-1 zone, until
otherwise zoned as provided herein. (Ord. 533, 6-5-1961)
11-2-5: MANUFACTURING:
   (A)   Purpose: The purpose of the Industrial (M) zoning district is to
provide for a full range of compatible manufacturing and industrial uses
essential to the development and maintenance of a strong economic base in a
manner that does not conflict with surrounding uses.
   (B)   Zones:
      1.   Light Manufacturing Zone (M-1): The M-1 Zoning District identifies
areas appropriate for light industrial uses that provide a job base, affordable
space for small-scale industrial and manufacturing businesses, and a center of
economic activity for the City that would not typically utilize major
manufacturing processes. Allowable land uses include, manufacturing,
processing, warehousing, distribution, assembly, storage of products. The M-
1 zoning district is consistent with the Light Industrial land use designation
of the General Plan.
      2.   Heavy Manufacturing Zone (M-2): The M-2 Zoning District identifies
areas appropriate for heavy industrial uses that provide a job base, affordable
space for small-scale industrial and manufacturing businesses, and a center of
economic activity for the City that allow for the development of facilities and
businesses engaged in intense manufacturing and fabrication. Allowable uses
include, a wide variety and range of heavy manufacturing, the processing of
limited raw materials, and large-scale assembly establishments where the
mixture of limited light industrial uses would not be appropriate or
compatible. The M-2 zoning district is consistent with the Heavy Industrial
land use designation of the General Plan.
   (C)   Permitted Uses: The following table sets forth the permits required
for each listed use category.
      1.   "P" designates allowed uses.
      2.   "SPR" designates uses that are permitted after review and approval
of a site plan review process.
      3.   "DRA" designates uses that are permitted after review and approval
of a director review and approval process.
      4.   "CUP" designates uses that are permitted after review and approval
of a conditional use permit.
      5.   "TUP" designates uses that are permitted after review and approval
of a conditional use permit.
      6.   "-" designates prohibited uses.
In cases where a specific land use or activity is not listed as a permitted use
either directly or indirectly, the city Manager or designee may assign the land
use or activity to a classification per Section
11-8-2 (Use Classifications).
Table 2-9   Permitted Uses
Use Types (M-1 ) (M-2 ) Special Requirements (if any)
Table 2-9   Permitted Uses
Use Types                        (M-1 ) (M-2 ) Special Requirements (if any)
Adult Businesses                 CUP    CUP    See Section
                                               11-4-8  (Adult Businesses)
Agricultural Product Processing  -      SPR     
Alcohol Distillation and         -      SPR     
Distribution
Brewery and Tasting Room         SPR    CUP     
Artist's Studio                  SPR    -       
Automotive Fuels and Recharging  SPR    SPR     
Facilities
Automotive Service Stations      SPR    SPR     
Automotive Sales and Service     SPR    SPR     
Automotive, Machinery, and       -      SPR     
Construction Manufacturing
Automotive Vehicle Washing       SPR    SPR-    
Automotive Storage/Towing and    -      SPR     
Impound
Cannabis Manufacturing, Testing,               See Section
Distribution, and Indoor         -      -      11-4-11  (Medicinal and Adult
Cultivation                                    Use Cannabis)
Chemical Storage, Mixing, and    -      SPR     
Sales
Electricity Generating Uses      SPR    SPR     
Commercial Kitchens              SPR    -       
Emergency Shelters               SPR    SPR    See section
                                               11-8-2 (B) (Emergency Shelter)
Equipment Sale, Repair and       SPR    SPRP    
Rental
Hemp Manufacturing and Storage   CUP    SPR     
Machinery and General            -      SPR     
Manufacturing
Media Production                 SPR    SPR     
Parking (Private or Public)      SPR    SPR    See Section
                                               11-3-4  (Off Street Parking)
Parks and Recreation Facilities. -      -       
Personal Storage                 SPR    -       
Public Facilities                SPR    SPR     
Recycling Collection/Processing  SPR    SPR     
Facility
Resell of Used Items             SPR    SPR     
Petroleum Bulk Storage and Sales -      SPR     
Production and Processing        -      SPR     
Public and Semi-Public Uses      SPR    SPR     
Utilities, Minor                 SPR    SPR     
Utilities, Major                 -      SPR     
Wholesale and Warehouse          SPR    SPR     
Temporary Uses                   TUP    TUP     
                                               See Section
Contractors Construction Yard    TUP    TUP    11-6-8  (Temporary Use Permits
                                               (TUP))
On-Location Filming              TUP    TUP    See Section 11-6-8 (Temporary
                                               Use Permits (TUP))
                                               See Section
Seasonal Sales                   TUP    TUP    11-6-8  (Temporary Use Permits
                                               (TUP))
                                               See Section
Temporary Sales Trailer          -      -      11-6-8  (Temporary Use Permits
                                               (TUP))
                                               See section
                                               11-3-2  (Storage Containers) and
Temporary Storage Container      TUP    TUP    See Section
                                               11-6-8  (Temporary Use Permits
                                               (TUP))
                                               See Section
Temporary Structure              TUP    TUP    11-6-8  (Temporary Use Permits
                                               (TUP))
                                               See Section
Temporary Work Trailer           TUP    TUP    11-6-8  (Temporary Use Permits
                                               (TUP))
 
   (D)   Development Standards: Development standards for the (M) zoning
district shall be as follows:
 
Table 2-10   Development Standards
Development       (M-1)               (M-2)                Comments
Standard
Minimum Lot Size  10,000 square feet  10,000 square feet    
Maximum Lot       80%                 90%                   
Coverage
                  45 feet maximum     45 feet maximum
                  Adjacent to         Adjacent to
                  residential use:    residential use:
Maximum Building  Shall not exceed    Shall not exceed      
Height            twice the distance  twice the distance
                  to the nearest      to the nearest
                  property line up to property line up to
                  45 feet             45 feet
                  20 feet for all new 20 feet for all new  Any existing
                  developments        developments         building or
                  adjacent to         adjacent to          structurally altered
                  residential uses    residential uses     and used exclusively
                  (half the width of  (half the width of   as a dwelling shall
                  streets and alleys  streets and alleys   comply with the
Minimum Landscape may be used towards may be used towards  front yard, side
Yard Setbacks     this setback)       this setback)        yard, rear yard,
(front, side, and 10-feet for all new 10-feet for all new  buildable area,
rear)             developments        developments         space between
                  adjacent to non-    adjacent to non-     buildings, lot area,
                  industrial uses     industrial uses      and off street
                  (half the width of  (half the width of   parking regulations
                  streets and alleys  streets and alleys   which apply in the
                  may be used towards may be used towards  R-3 zone.
                  this setback)       this setback)
                  6 feet-when         6 feet-when adjacent
Fences/Walls      adjacent to non-    to non-industrial     
                  industrial uses     uses
 
   (E)   Additional Regulations:
      1.   A minimum of twenty feet (20') of landscaping shall be required for
all new industrial development adjacent to arterial streets.
      2.   A minimum ten foot (10') landscaped setback shall be required for
all new industrial development adjacent to collector and local streets.
      3.   All outdoor storage areas shall be screened from adjacent public
rights-of-way which are classified as arterial streets or larger by the Selma
General Plan Circulation Element.
      4.   All new industrial developments or substantially rehabilitated
industrial buildings shall provide adequate trash enclosures.
      5.   All new proposed uses on lands zoned for industrial uses shall be
subject to site plan review requirements as set forth in the City of Selma
Zoning Code, in addition to any other permitting requirements. Site plan
application materials, including exterior elevations, shall be prepared by a
licensed architect or similarly qualified professional.
      6.   All new industrial developments shall provide sidewalks that conform
to City standards. (Ord. 2024-6, 6-17-2024)
11-2-6: COMBINING ZONES:
   (A)   Purpose: The purpose of the combining zoning districts is to provide
more refined zoning and development regulation for specific areas in the City
that have unique attributes, development history, or are historic in nature.
The combining zoning districts serve as an overlay to the base zoning district
and include additional development regulations for all applicable uses and
projects. The following are the combining zones:
      1.   Pioneer Village Zone;
      2.   Citywide Specific and Precise Plans Zones.
   (B)   Pioneer Village Zone: The following regulations shall apply in the PV
Pioneer Village Zone (PV Zone), unless otherwise provided in this Chapter.
      1.   Permitted Uses: The establishment or operation of any of the
following uses in the PV Zone shall not be permitted unless a conditional use
permit and a Master Plan have been approved under the provisions of this
section.
         (a)   All uses permitted in the residential, commercial, and
industrial zones.
         (b)   PV Zone Indoor and outdoor displays of items commonly considered
of historic interest.
         (c)   No uses shall be permitted except those uses designed and
operated primarily for the purpose of creating or supporting a functioning
historic display.
         (d)   No use shall be permitted except those which are consistent with
the adopted Master Plan.
      2.   Development Standards: The establishment or operation of any of the
following uses in the PV Zone shall not be permitted unless a conditional use
permit and a Master Plan have been approved under the provisions of this
section.
         (a)   Access shall be designed to insure safe and convenient vehicular
and pedestrian movement, to, from and within the development. The development
shall have access to a public street.
         (b)   Yards shall be adequate in size to provide for planned
landscaping to insure adequate spacing for fire protection purposes and to
insure safe sight distance for movement within the development.
         (c)   Landscaping shall be provided and maintained. Plants and related
materials shall be arranged in a manner which is consistent with and
complementary to the building design and materials.
         (d)   The number of parking spaces required shall be established by
the Planning Commission at the time the conditional use permit is issued.
      3.   Master Plan Requirement: A Master Plan showing the extent and
character of the entire proposed development shall be submitted. The Master
Plan shall be submitted with the conditional use permit application. The plan,
or accompanying narrative, shall include sufficient information to determine
that all requirements of this section have been met, including but not limited
to the following:
         (a)   Proposed uses;
         (b)   Development standards showing setbacks, yards and landscaping;
         (c)   Heights of buildings and structures, if known;
         (d)   Architectural design or theme;
         (e)   Development phasing;
         (f)   Services and facilities supporting proposed uses, including
vehicular access and parking.
      4.   Site Plan Review: Before any building or structure is erected or
parcel created under the provisions of this section, a site plan reflecting all
conditions of approval shall have been submitted to and approved by the City
Engineer/Planner. Such site plan shall encompass all that area shown on the
approved Master Plan.
      5.   Exemptions: Events at Pioneer Village shall not be subject to the
requirements of Section
11-3-4 (Off Street Parking) of this Code. Instead, they shall be subject to
duly approved policies of the Pioneer Village Commission.
   (C)   Citywide Specific Plans And Precise Plans: Parcels located within a
designated City Specific Plan or Precise Plan shall adhere to the allowed use
and development standards as specified in each plan unless otherwise determined
by the Community Development Director. (Ord. 2024-6, 6-17-2024)
11-2-7: OPEN SPACE:
   (A)   Purpose: The purpose of the open space (OS) zoning district is to
provide for open space areas which serve as utility or infrastructure systems,
reservoirs, or retailing basins, and recreational uses. The OS zoning district
is also to provide for government services and facilities and quasi-public
facilities such as fire stations, airports, domestic water treatment and
storage, schools and accredited secondary educational facilities, cemeteries,
and philanthropic and nonprofit organizations.
This designation is for a variety of active and passive public recreational
facilities and for city-owned open space facilities. This includes natural open
spaces and areas which have been designated as environmentally and ecologically
significant. Other allowed uses in this designation include supporting
structures such as recreation centers, gymnasiums, community meeting facilities
and small-scale retail uses that support outdoor recreation, such as
restaurants, refreshment stands, or sporting equipment and rental vendors.
Facilities such as those described above are not restricted to being located on
lands designated Open Space/Park.
   (B)   Permitted Uses:
      1.   The following table sets forth the permits required for each listed
use category.
         (a)   "P" designates allowed uses.
         (b)   "SPR" designates uses that are permitted after review and
approval of a site plan review process.
         (c)   "DRA" designates uses that are permitted after review and
approval of a director review and approval process.
         (d)   "CUP" designates uses that are permitted after review and
approval of a conditional use permit.
         (e)   "-" designates prohibited uses.
In cases where a specific land use or activity is not listed as a permitted use
either directly or indirectly, the city manager or designee may assign the land
use or activity to a classification per Section
11-8-2 (Use Classifications).
Table 2-11   Permitted Uses
Use Types Permit Special Requirements (if any)
Table 2-11   Permitted Uses
Use Types                            Permit Special Requirements (if any)
Cemetery                             CUP     
Childcare and Educational Facilities P       
Community Centers and Assembly       CUP     
Spaces,
Community Gardens                    P       
Hospitals and Clinics                P       
Farmers Markets                      CUP     
Eating and Drinking Establishments   CUP    See Section
(Restaurants)                               11-4-7  (Alcoholic Beverage Sales)
Parks and Recreational Facilities    P       
Plazas, Squares, and Courtyards      P       
Ponding Basin                        P       
Trails                               P       
Wetlands, Wildlife Habitat, and      P       
Reservoirs
 
(Ord. 2024-6, 6-17-2024)
CHAPTER 3
GENERAL REGULATIONS APPLICABLE TO ALL ZONES
SECTION:
11-3-1: Development Standards
11-3-2: Storage Containers
11-3-3: Accessory Buildings And Structures
11-3-4: Off Street Parking
11-3-5: Landscaping
11-3-6: Fences, Walls, And Hedges
11-3-7: Lighting
11-3-8: Signs
11-3-9: Mobile Home Park
11-3-1: DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS:
The purpose of this Chapter is to prescribe development and site regulations
that apply, except where specifically stated, to development in all Districts.
These standards will be used in conjunction with the standards for each Zoning
District located in Chapter 2. In any case of conflict, the standards specific
to the Zoning District will override these regulations.
   (A)   Development On Parcels Divided By District Boundaries:
      1.   Where a parcel is divided by a Zoning District boundary, the
regulations applicable to each District shall be applied to the area within the
district, and no use, other than parking serving a principal use on the site,
shall be in a District in which it is not a permitted or conditionally
permitted use.
      2.   All access to parking serving a use must be from a street or alley
abutting that portion of the parcel where the use is allowed. Pedestrian or
vehicular access from a street or alley to a nonresidential use shall not
traverse a Residential District in which the nonresidential use is not
permitted or conditionally permitted.
   (B)   Development On Substandard Lots:
      1.   Any lot or parcel of land that was legally created may be used as a
building site even when consisting of less area, width, or depth than that
required by the regulations for the district in which it is located. No
substandard lot shall be further reduced in area, width, or depth, unless
required as part of a public improvement. A substandard lot shall be subject to
the same yard and density requirements as a standard lot; however, the Director
may reduce the side and rear yard requirements at a ratio equivalent with the
non-conformity.
   (C)   Height Projections:
Table 3-1   Height Projections
Structure Maximum Aggregate Coverage of Maximum Vertical Projection (ft.) Above
          Buildings Roof Area (%)       Height Limit
Table 3-1   Height Projections
                           Maximum Aggregate Coverage Maximum Vertical
Structure                  of Buildings Roof Area (%) Projection (ft.) Above
                                                      Height Limit
Skylights                  No limit                   1 ft.
Skylight on flat roofs     30%                        5 ft.
Chimneys, vent stacks      5%                         5 ft.
Parapets, fire escapes,
catwalks, and open guard   As required by law         As required by law
rails required by law
Projections allowed in all districts except Single family zones
Non-occupiable features
such as steeples, spires,  10%                        10 ft.
towers, domes, and cupolas
Rooftop features such as
outdoor living area,       25%                        10 ft.
sunshade, trellises, and
landscaping
Elevator shafts            15%                        18 ft.
Stairwells                 25%                        14 ft.
Mechanical Rooms           25%                        12 ft.
 
   (D)   Screening Of Mechanical And Electrical Equipment:
      1.   The standards of this Section apply to:
         (a)   New Development, new equipment that is added to serve existing
buildings, and Condominium Conversions.
         (b)   Exceptions include existing equipment that serves existing
buildings and Manufacturing (Industrial) Districts.
      2.   All exterior mechanical and electrical equipment shall be screened
on all vertical sides at least to the height of the equipment it is screening
and incorporated into the design of buildings to the maximum extent feasible.
Equipment to be screened includes, but is not limited to, all roof-mounted
equipment, air conditioners, heaters, utility meters, cable equipment,
telephone entry boxes, backflow preventions, irrigation control valves,
electrical transformers, pull boxes, and all ducting for air conditioning,
heating, and blower systems. Screening materials may include landscaping or
other materials that shall be consistent with the exterior colors and materials
of the building. Solar energy systems are exempt from this screening
requirement.
      3.   Above grade equipment by Public Utility providers may be permitted
within easements.
      4.   Roof access ladders shall be screened from Major Streets. Fire
sprinkler risers should be designed for interior installation whenever possible
where an exterior location would be visible from a Major Street. Where site
conditions dictate an exterior location for the sprinkler riser, a three-foot
(3') clear space shall be provided between the screening materials and the
riser. The alarm bell and fire department connection shall be installed so that
they are visible from the street.
      5.   Maintenance: Screening walls shall be maintained in good repair,
including painting, if required, and shall be kept free of litter or
advertising. Where hedges are used as screening, trimming, or pruning shall be
employed as necessary to maintain the maximum allowed height.
   (E)   Utilities:
      1.   The standards of this Section shall apply to:
         (a)   New development.
         (b)   The demolition and reconstruction of a site.
         (c)   Any other time deemed appropriate by the Public Works Director.
      2.   All electrical, telephone, cable television, and similar
distribution lines, both on-site and off-site, providing direct service to the
project site identified in the project application shall be installed
underground. This requirement may be waived or deferred by the Director or
their designee upon a determination that the installation is infeasible,
premature, or said utilities are not impacted directly by the project.
   (F)   Projections:
      1.   The standards of this Section apply to new development or structures
and new equipment that is added to serve existing buildings.
      2.   The structures listed in the following table may extend into, and
other encroachments may be in, required yards and are subject to all applicable
requirements of the Building Code.
Table 3-2   Projections
Projection Type Front Setback Street Side Setback Interior Side Rear Setback
                                                  Setback
Table 3-2   Projections
Projection Type Front Setback Street Side   Interior Side    Rear Setback
                              Setback       Setback
Eaves, awnings,
canopies,
sunshades,
sills,
cornices, belt                4 inches for  4 inches for     4 inches for
courses,        3 ft          every 1 ft of every 1 ft of    every 1 ft of
trellises,                    required yard required yard    required yard
arbors, and
other similar
architectural
features
Balconies,
decks, porches,
and similar
structures that 30 in         30 in         Not permitted    5 ft
are open,
unenclosed on 2
sides
Patios,
porches,
platforms,
decks, and
other
unenclosed
areas not
covered by a
roof or canopy
and that may be
raised above
the level of    6 ft          5 ft          5 ft             5 ft
the adjacent
setback but do
not extend more
than 3 ft.
above the
average natural
grade except
for guard rails
to the extent
legally
required
Stairways,
stair landing   42 inches     42 inches     42 inches        42 inches
and balconies
without roofs
Fire escapes
required by
law, ordinance, 4 ft          4 ft          4 ft             4 ft
or regulations
of a public
agency
Electric                      No limit (can No limit (can    No limit (can
Vehicle         Not permitted extend to     extend to parcel extend to parcel
Charging                      parcel line)  line)            line)
Equipment
Air
conditioners,
compressors,                                No limit (can    No limit (can
hot tub motors, Not permitted Not permitted extend to parcel extend to parcel
pool equipment,                             line)            line)
and other
mechanical
equipment
   (G)   Swimming Pools And Spas:
      1.   Swimming pools and spas shall comply with the following standards:
         (a)   If located in a Residential District, the swimming pool or spa
is to be solely for the use and enjoyment of residents and their guests.
         (b)   The swimming pool or spa, or the entire parcel on which it is
located, shall be walled or fenced from the street or from adjacent properties;
         (c)   Swimming Pools and Spas located less than thirty feet (30') to
any parcel line, shall be screened by a masonry wall or solid fence not less
than six feet (6') in height on the side facing such parcel line, subject to
the requirements of Chapter
11-3-6, Fences, Walls, and Hedges.
         (d)   Swimming pool or spa filtration equipment and pumps shall not be
in the front setback unless permitted under subsection (F) Projections. All
equipment shall be mounted and enclosed so that its sound is not audible from
any other parcel.
   (H)   Hazardous Visual Obstructions:
      1.   Notwithstanding the provisions of section
11-3-6, Fences, Walls, and Hedges, no person shall permit any obstruction,
including, but not limited to, any fence, wall, hedge, tree, or landscape
planting to obscure or block the visibility of vehicles entering or exiting an
alley, driveway, parking lot, street intersection, or other vehicle right-of-
way or to constitute an unreasonable and unnecessary hazard to persons lawfully
using an adjacent pedestrian or vehicle right-of-way. In addition, no
obstruction shall be located less than twelve feet (12') from the intersection
of the street-facing parcel line with a driveway or garage door, or the
intersection of parcel lines adjacent to street or alley intersections unless
the obstruction is either less than twenty four inches (24") above the adjacent
vehicle right-of-way or is authorized pursuant to Subsection (H)2 below.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b007bab647711b625891d40e4fcc5f1077aea100/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3921.jpg]
Figure 3-1 Visual Obstructions
      2.    No devel opme nt shall be allow ed if it would other wise cause an
existi ng obstru ction to be in violati on of this subsection unless:
         (a)   The obstruction is less than twenty four inches (24") above the
adjacent vehicle right-of-way; or
         (b)   The obstruction or development is authorized pursuant to
subsections (H)2 or (H)3 of this Section.
      3.   The Community Development Director or designee may approve
encroachments into the five-foot (5') hazardous visual area in addition to
those specified in subsection (H)1 of this Section when the parcel owner
submits a written request and satisfactory evidence that:
         (a)   Characteristics applicable to the parcel, including size, shape,
topography, location, or surroundings, that do not apply to other properties in
the vicinity which unreasonably restricts an owner's ability to comply with
subsection (H)1 of this Section; and
         (b)   The proposed encroachment will be designed to maintain adequate
sight view and/or provide other design elements, such as the use of mirrors and
will not constitute a hazard to persons lawfully using an adjacent sidewalk,
alley, street or other right-of-way; and
         (c)   The strict application of the provisions of this Section would
result in practical difficulties or unnecessary hardships, not including
economic difficulties or economic hardships, or would result in unreasonable
deprivation of the use or enjoyment of the parcel; and
         (d)   The granting of the encroachment will not be contrary to or in
conflict with the general purposes and intent of this Section, nor to the
goals, objectives, and policies of the General Plan.
   (I)   Outdoor Storage:
      1.   All outdoor storage of vehicles, equipment, and other items is
allowed in a Zoning District, such outdoor storage must conform to the
standards of this Section.
         (a)   No sales, rentals, long-term storage, repair work, dismantling,
or servicing of any motor vehicle, trailer, airplane, boat, loose rubbish,
garbage, junk, or their receptacles, or building materials shall be permitted
in any front yard or side yard of any property. Repair or servicing of any
motor vehicle may occur provided that the work continues for a period not to
exceed forty eight (48) hours. Long-term storage shall mean storage for a
period of forty eight (48) or more consecutive hours. In any Residential
District, no portion of any vacant or undeveloped parcel or a parcel where no
main building exists shall be used for long-term storage of the items listed
above. Building materials for use on the same parcel or building site may be
stored on the parcel or building site during the time that a valid building
permit is in effect for construction on the premises.
      2.   Outdoor storage areas shall be screened from any public street or
freeway, existing or residential area, or publicly accessible open space areas,
parking areas, access driveways, or similar thoroughfares.
         (a)   The following requirements apply to all walls and fences that
screen outdoor storage areas:
            (1)   Screening walls and fences shall be architecturally
compatible with the main structure on the site.
            (2)   No barbed wire or razor wire is permitted except as
authorized by Chapter
11-3-6, Fences, Walls, and Hedges.
            (3)   No screening wall or fence shall be located within a required
landscape planter along the street frontage.
            (4)   Screening walls and fences shall not exceed maximum fence
heights along parcel lines or in required setback, and in other areas shall not
exceed fifteen feet (15') in height. No stored goods may exceed the height of
the screening wall or fence.
         (b)   The display of automobiles and vehicles for sale as part of an
Automobile/Vehicle Sales and Leasing use or associated Automobile Storage use,
as defined in Chapter
11-2-5 shall be exempt from the screening requirement of this Subsection.
      3.   All portions of outside storage areas shall have adequate grading
and drainage and shall be continuously maintained.
         (a)   Equipment shall be stored in such manner that it cannot be blown
from the enclosed storage area; and
         (b)   Equipment shall not be placed or allowed to remain outside the
enclosed storage area.
   (J)   Trash And Refuse Collection Areas:
      1.   The standards of this Section apply to:
         (a)   New collection areas;
         (b)   New development;
         (c)   The demolition and reconstruction of a site;
         (d)   Building additions to existing buildings that expand the
existing floor area by at least twenty percent (20%), or two thousand five
hundred (2,500) square feet, whichever is less, not including Single-Unit
Dwellings or Duplexes. The addition and/or expansion shall be cumulative from
the date of adoption of this Code;
         (e)   The addition of residential unit(s) that result in five (5) or
more dwelling units.
         (f)   A request for a Discretionary Permit;
         (g)   Change from one category of use classification to another (i.e.
changing from a Commercial Use Classification to a Residential Use
Classification as identified in the Use Regulation table of the Base District);
or
         (h)   Condominium Conversions.
      2.   Requirements:
         (a)   Single-Family Residential: As required per Title 8, Chapter 1,
Health, and Sanitation, of the Selma Municipal Code.
         (b)   Multi-Family Residential. Enclosures for solid waste will be in
conformance with Public Resource Code Section 42649.8 or as amended. Per
42649.8 enclosures for solid waste and recycling containers are required when:
         (c)   Five (5) or more dwelling units are proposed; and
         (d)   There should be a minimum of one solid waste and recycling
enclosure per thirty (30) units.
         (e)   Non-Residential Districts: As required per Title 8, Chapter 1,
Health, and Sanitation, of the Selma Municipal Code.
         (f)   Uses That Produce Grease. Uses, such as restaurants, that
produce grease shall provide a "grease barrel" enclosure or alternative as
approved by the Building Official and County Environmental Health.
      3.   Location:
         (a)   Solid waste and recycling storage areas shall not be located
within any required setback or any landscaped areas except where a rear yard
abuts an alley. Where a rear yard abuts an alley, the solid waste and recycling
storage area may be located within the required rear yard setback however the
gates may not swing open into the alley.
         (b)   In non-residential developments that abut a Residential
District, enclosures shall be located as far as possible from the residential
district as feasible and be proximate to the non-residential development.
Enclosure gates shall not open into drive aisles and shall not block the
visibility of pedestrians and drivers.
         (c)   Solid waste and recycling areas shall be consolidated to
minimize the number of collection sites and located to reasonably equalize the
distance from the building spaces they serve.
         (d)   Solid waste and recycling storage areas shall be accessible to
haulers. Storage areas shall be located so that the trucks and equipment used
by the solid waste and recycling collector(s) have sufficient maneuvering areas
and, if feasible, so that the collection equipment can avoid backing. Project
applicants are responsible for procuring current equipment size and turning
radius from the City or its contracted solid waste and recycling collector(s).
      4.   Materials, Construction, and Design.
         (a)   Enclosures shall be constructed per City standards.
         (b)   Gate material shall be solid, heavy-gauge metal or a heavy-gauge
metal frame with a covering of a view-obscuring material.
      5.   Access To Enclosure: Each solid waste and recycling enclosure shall
be designed to allow walk-in access without having to open the main enclosure
gate, to the extent feasible.
      6.   Enclosure Pad/Bumpers: Enclosures shall be constructed per City
standards.
      7.   Protection For Enclosures: Concrete curbs or equivalent shall
protect enclosures from adjacent vehicle parking and travel ways.
      8.   Stormwater Pollution Prevention: Enclosure pads must be designed to
prevent contamination of the stormwater system. Measures that may be taken to
achieve this include, but are not limited to, using roofs to divert stormwater
away from the enclosures, creating grade breaks to properly direct stormwater
away while keeping any water that may be in the enclosure from spilling out,
and connecting a drain in the enclosure to the sewer system to collect
contaminated water in cases of spillage, washing, etc.
      9.   Landscaping: When visible from a Major Street or a Local Street that
serves residential neighborhoods, the perimeter of enclosures, excluding gates,
shall be planted, with drought-resistant landscaping, including a combination
of shrubs and/or climbing evergreen vines. This subsection does not apply to
Industrial Districts. (Ord. 2024-6, 6-17-2024)
11-3-2: STORAGE CONTAINERS:
   (A)   Purpose And Intent:
      1.   It is the purpose and intent of this Section is to establish
procedures and standards for the use and maintenance of storage container(s)
within the city of Selma to prevent hazards to the public, disruptions of
traffic, unsightly properties, and negative impacts to the aesthetics of non-
residential and residential neighborhoods in the city.
   (B)   Definitions:
      1.   As used in this Chapter, "storage container" or "portable storage
container" means a shipping container, portable on demand storage or PODS, shed
like structure or other container or receptacle that is capable of being moved
and is, or may be, used for the storage of property of any kind.
   (C)   Applicability:
      1.   Temporary storage containers shall be allowed subject to approval of
a Temporary Use Permit as required in Chapter
11-6-8.
      2.   Temporary storage containers may be allowed if unusual circumstances
exist that require the use of a temporary storage container, as determined by
the Director. Unusual circumstances include, but are not limited to,
construction, home or business relocation, natural disasters, and both
commercial and residential rehabilitation activities.
   (D)   Development Standards For Temporary Storage Containers:
      1.   Non-Residential Zones: This use includes metal shipping containers
used for the storage of materials and does not include containers associated
with construction or located in a Residential Zoning District. The use of a
temporary storage container(s) for seasonal storage shall be prohibited.
         (a)   Maximum Number Of Containers: The permit may be for a maximum of
two (2) container(s) per business or parcel.
         (b)   Time Period:
            (1)   No person shall place, keep, or store a storage container(s)
on any property applicable to this Section for more than one year.
            (2)   Notwithstanding subsection (D)1(a) of this Section, storage
container(s) may be kept on a property during the term of a waiver as specified
in subsection
11-3-2(E), or valid building permit issued by the city for work on the property
as determined by the Community Development Director or their appointed
designee.
Any storage container placed, kept, or stored on any property pursuant to this
subsection must be removed from said property within forty-eight (48) hours
after the expiration of the term stated in the waiver or permit.
         (c)   Location On-Site:
            (1)   Temporary Storage container(s) may only be placed on the same
site where the commercial business that applied for such permit is located and
must be situated in close proximity to the business and the primary access door
on the rear of the building that will be used to access the items stored in the
temporary storage container(s).
            (2)   Storage container(s) shall be placed a minimum of fifteen
feet (15') from any adjacent residential property line.
         (d)   Permitted Dimensions: Storage container(s) shall not exceed a
height of eight feet six inches (8'6"), a width of eight feet six inches
(8'6"), or a length of thirty feet (30'). Storage containers may not be stacked
on top of each other.
         (e)   Placement In Required Parking Area/Spaces: Storage container(s)
shall be located in the parking area of the non-residential building only, in
which on-site parking provided exceeds parking required by the Selma Municipal
Code. The storage container(s) shall not be permitted in required parking area/
spaces that results in less than required on-site parking.
         (f)   Paved Surface: Storage container(s) shall be placed only on a
paved parking lot surface. Storage container(s) may not be placed in landscape
planters, nor shall landscaping be removed or damaged to install storage
container(s).
         (g)   Emergency Egress/Access: Storage container(s) must be placed in
a location that does not impact circulation or emergency access. Storage
container(s) shall maintain the minimum fire department clearances for drive
aisles, fire lanes, and building exits at all times.
         (h)   Screening And Visibility: Storage container(s) shall be placed
in such a way on the site to minimize visibility from public right-of-way and
shall be restricted to the rear of the building, with screening provided by
screen walls, landscaping and/or surrounding buildings as appropriate. The
Community Development Director or designee shall make the final determination
on adequate screening.
         (i)   Exterior Maintenance: The area surrounding storage container(s)
shall be maintained in a clean and orderly manner at all times, and no
merchandise, shelving, or other items shall be stored outside the container(s).
         (j)   Advertising: The placement of signs, advertising copy, banners,
or any other advertising device is prohibited on storage container(s).
         (k)   Use Limited To Temporary Storage: Storage container(s) may only
be used for the temporary storage of merchandise, inventory, shelving,
displays, or other incidental items related to the operation of the commercial
business. Business or sale of merchandise may not be conducted directly from
storage container(s). Storage container(s) may not be used for habitable space,
office, or as a meeting area, and shall be kept closed and secured at all times
other than when items are being moved in or out of the storage container(s).
         (l)   Lighting: All lighting used inside, or outside storage container
(s) shall be designed and located to confine light to the storage container(s)
or the immediate area. Electrical permits shall be obtained as required, and no
other electrical devices may be used other than lighting as allowed in this
Section.
         (m)   Restoration Of Site: Storage container(s) shall be placed on the
site in such a manner as to prevent damage to the pavement surface. Remedial
property maintenance may be required upon termination of the use to restore the
site to its original condition, including, but not limited to, the repair of
the pavement surface, removal of debris from the immediate and adjacent areas,
building or wall repairs, or landscape refurbishment. Such repairs shall be
completed within fourteen (14) days of the cessation of the approved period of
use and shall be the responsibility of the permittee.
      2.   Residential Zones: This use includes metal shipping containers used
for the storage of materials and does not include containers associated with
construction. This Section shall apply only to all zones with the "R" zoning
designation.
         (a)   Maximum Number Of Containers: No person shall place, keep, or
store on any property applicable to this Section more than one storage
container per property.
         (b)   Time Period:
            (1)   No person shall place, keep, or store a storage container on
any property applicable to this section for more than sixty (60) consecutive or
nonconsecutive days in any twelve (12) month period.
            (2)   Notwithstanding subsection (D)2(a) of this Section, storage
container may be kept on a property during the term of a waiver as specified in
Section
11-3-2(E) or valid building permit issued by the city for work on the property
as determined by the Community Development Director or their appointed
designee.
            (3)   Any storage container placed, kept, or stored on any property
pursuant to this subsection must be removed from said property within forty-
eight (48) hours after the expiration of the term stated in the waiver or
permit.
         (c)   Location Of Storage Container(s):
            (1)   No person shall place, keep, store, or maintain a storage
container(s) on or over or within ten feet (10') of any public street,
sidewalk, right of way or curb line. The storage container shall not be
permitted in any required on-site residential parking area/spaces or remove or
impede any required on-site parking.
            (2)   Container may be located in the rear yard but shall maintain
a minimum of five feet (5') from any side or rear parcel line.
            (3)   Storage container(s) shall be placed only on a paved surface.
         (d)   Permitted Dimension: Storage container(s) shall not exceed a
height of eight feet (8'), a width of eight feet (8') or a length of sixteen
feet (16'). Storage containers may not be stacked on top of each other.
         (e)   Exterior Maintenance: No person, including, but not limited to,
the owner, agent, tenant, or occupant of any property shall maintain a storage
container(s) in an unsightly condition or any condition that contributes to
blight, including, but not limited to, graffiti, weeds, rust, or any other
visible form of neglect or deterioration.
   (E)   Waiver: Any persons seeking to place, keep, or store additional
storage container(s), oversized storage container(s), or a storage container(s)
in a prohibited location or to maintain the storage container beyond the time
period specified, may request, in writing, a waiver from Community Development
Director or designee. The Community Development Director or his or her designee
may grant a waiver for the size, location, or number of storage container(s) on
a case-by-case basis. The Community Development Director or designee may also
grant a waiver to place, keep or store a storage container(s) for a longer
period of time than permitted pursuant to subsections 11-3-2(D)1(b) and 11-3-2
(D)2(b). In that event, however, the written waiver issued shall specify the
time period during which the storage container may be maintained on the
property and the container must be removed within forty-eight (48) hours after
expiration of the terms stated in the waiver.
   (F)   Penalty:
      1.   Violations of this chapter are hereby declared to be a public
nuisance.
      2.   In addition to any other remedy available at law, any person who
violates any provision of this chapter is subject to administrative, criminal,
civil, or other penalties pursuant to title I, chapter 4 of this code. (Ord.
2024-6, 6-17-2024)
11-3-3: ACCESSORY BUILDINGS AND STRUCTURES:
All accessory buildings and structures shall conform to the same required
development standards as principal structures except as required by this
Section. Accessory buildings in residential districts shall include any
detached buildings including, but not limited to, gazebos, greenhouses, storage
sheds, workshops, garages, and any other buildings detached from the primary
building. Accessory structures in residential districts shall include, but not
limited to unenclosed carports, electric vehicle charging equipment, barbecues;
sinks and counters; fountains; freestanding fireplaces; firepits; swimming
pools and spas, and any other structures with a fixed location that is detached
from the main building. Accessory buildings and structures shall be erected,
structurally altered, converted, enlarged, moved, and maintained, in compliance
with the following regulations:
   (A)   Relation To Principal Buildings:
      1.   An accessory building may only be constructed on a parcel with a
legally permitted principal building. An accessory building shall be considered
part of the primary building if it is connected to principal building with a
fully enclosed space or other structural additions, such as a breezeway.
         (a)   The accessory structure, in the opinion of the Director, shall
not have a substantial effect on an adjacent property.
         (b)   Should the ownership of two (2) contiguous and immediately
adjoining residential lots be the same and one lot contains a single-family
home, an accessory building may be permitted on the adjoining vacant lot
subject to compliance with all property development standards. The owner shall
sign a covenant and record the signed document with the County Recorder's
Office, which will at a minimum require that any improvements such as carports,
storage sheds, etc., be removed should either parcel be sold separately.
      2.   Dwelling Units In Accessory Buildings:
         (a)   For accessory dwelling units and junior accessory dwelling units
used as a habitable space, please refer to section
11-4-2.
   (B)   Development Standards:
      1.   Location:
         (a)   Accessory buildings and structures in residential districts
shall conform to the following standards:
            (1)   Front And Street-Side Yards: Accessory buildings may not be
located within required front yard or street-side setback areas on primary
building parcel or any other adjacent front setback of side setback.
         (b)   In the case of a Double Frontage Lot, both street frontages
shall be treated as Front Yards. Any accessory building and structure shall not
project into any front setback and shall not be located in any minimum side
setback
         (c)   Accessory buildings shall not extend into the minimum side yard
setback.
         (d)   On a reversed corner parcel for accessory buildings the
following setbacks shall apply:
            (1)   Not located nearer to the street side parcel line than one-
half of the front setback depth required, and
            (2)   Not be located nearer than five feet (5') to the side parcel
line.
         (e)   Accessory buildings may be located in a portion of the required
rear yard area in R Zones, provided:
            (1)   Such building may occupy not more than fifty percent (50%) of
the length of the required rear yard, measured between side lot lines.
         (f)   Accessory structures shall not be located within any front or
minimum side setback except as expressly authorized below:
            (1)   Fountains, fire pits, and similar ornamental landscape
features not to exceed forty eight inches (48") in height.
            (2)   Underground mechanical equipment.
            (3)   Electric vehicle charging equipment shall be permitted within
any minimum side setback but shall not be permitted within any minimum front
setback.
         (g)   All swimming pools shall not be closer than five feet (5') to
the rear property line or a required distance mandated by building code,
whichever is greater.
      2.   Maximum Height:
         (a)   All detached accessory buildings shall be limited in height to
one story up to sixteen feet (16').
         (b)   Attached accessory structures shall be limited in height to not
more than fourteen feet (14').
      3.   Design Compatibility:
         (a)   The architectural design should relate and compliment the
surrounding design features of the principal building and residential
development in terms of form, materials, colors, and exterior finishes. The
accessory structure should not impair the natural movement of visual cues in
the surrounding landscape.
      4.   Facilities:
         (a)   Except for accessory dwelling units established in compliance
with section
11-4-2. Accessory Dwelling Units and Junior Accessory Dwelling Units, accessory
buildings may not contain kitchens or full baths. An accessory building that is
not an approved accessory dwelling unit may contain a sink and toilet but may
not contain a shower or tub enclosure. A shower that is outside and unenclosed
is permitted.
      5.   Renting:
         (a)   No accessory building shall be rented for any purpose or
otherwise used as an accessory dwelling unit unless specifically pursuant to
section
11-4-2, Accessory Dwelling Units and Junior Accessory Dwelling Units.
      6.   Tree Houses And Play Structures:
         (a)   When exceeding twelve feet (12') in height, as measured form
ground level to the top of the structure, the structure must be set back to a
distance equal or greater than its height.
         (b)   When exceeding one hundred twenty (120) square feet, a building
permit is required.
         (c)   If the structure overlooks a neighboring residential rear yard,
landscaping screen shall be provided. This requirement may we waived with the
written agreement of the affected neighbor(s) at the time or prior to when the
structure is constructed. (Ord. 2024-6, 6-17-2024)
11-3-4: OFF STREET PARKING:
   (A)   Purpose:
      1.   The purpose of this Section to provide off street parking and
loading standards to:
         (a)   Provide for the general welfare and convenience of persons
within the City by ensuring sufficient off-street parking facilities to meet
the needs generated by specific uses;
         (b)   Provide accessible, attractive, secure and well-maintained
parking and loading facilities;
         (c)   Increase public safety by reducing congestion throughout public
streets;
         (d)   Provide loading and delivery facilities in proportion to the
needs of allowed uses.
         (e)   Provide safe and convenient short-term and long-term bicycle
parking facilities.
   (B)   Applicability:
      1.   Every use, including the change or expansion of a use or structure,
shall have appropriately maintained off-street parking and loading areas in
compliance with the provisions of this Section. A use shall not be commenced
and structured shall not be occupied until improvements required by this
Section are satisfactorily completed, as determined by the Community
Development Director or designee.
   (C)   General Requirements:
      1.   Parking And Loading Spaces To Be Permanent: Off-street parking and
loading spaces shall be permanently available, marked, and maintained for
parking or loading purposes for the use they are intended to serve.
      2.   Parking And Loading To Be Unrestricted: Owners, lessees, tenants, or
persons having control of the operation of the premises for which parking or
loading spaces are required by this Section shall not prevent, prohibit, or
restrict authorized persons from using these spaces without prior review and
approval of the Director or designee.
      3.   Vehicles For Sale: Vehicles, trailers, or other personal property
shall not be parked upon a public or private street, parking lot, or public or
private property for the purpose of displaying the vehicle, trailer, or other
personal property for sale, hire, or rental, unless the property is
appropriately zoned, the vendor is licensed to transact the applicable business
at that location and has obtained all appropriate land use entitlements and
other required approvals.
      4.   Restriction of parking and loading areas used for multi-family and
nonresidential. Required off-street parking, loading, circulation, and access
areas shall be used exclusively for the temporary parking and maneuvering of
vehicles and shall not be used for the display, repair, or storage of vehicles,
trailers, boats, campers, mobile homes, merchandise, or equipment, or for any
other use not authorized by the provisions of this Development Code.
      5.   Nonconforming Status: Existing uses or structures shall not be
deemed to be nonconforming solely because of the lack of off-street parking or
loading spaces or parking lot improvements; provided, that facilities being
used for off-street parking or loading shall not be further reduced in number.
Structures with parking or loading space deficiencies shall be allowed to be
occupied by new uses allowed in the zoning district; provided, that:
         (a)   The new use has the same or lesser parking or loading space
requirement as the existing or previous use; or
         (b)   The new use has a greater parking or loading requirement than
the existing or previous use, and a sufficient number of additional parking or
loading spaces have been provided to accommodate the increased number of spaces
required for the new use.
   (D)   Required Number Of Parking Spaces:
      1.   Each land use shall provide at least the minimum number of off-
street parking spaces required by this Section, except where a greater number
of spaces is required through land use entitlement approval or where an
exception has been granted through approval of a discretionary permit.
      2.   For a use not specified, the number of off-street parking spaces
required shall be determined by the Community Development Director or designee,
based upon an analysis of other jurisdictions' experiences with that type of
use or upon an analysis of similar uses specified in subsection
11-3-4(D).
      3.   The number of required parking spaces shall be calculated according
to the following rules:
         a.   Fractions: If the calculation of required parking or loading
spaces results in the requirement of a fractional space, such fraction, if the
fraction is less than one-half, it shall result in no additional spaces; if
one-half or greater, it shall be considered one additional space.
         b.   Floor Area: Where an on-site parking or loading requirement is
stated as a ratio of parking spaces to floor area, the floor area is assumed to
be gross floor area, unless otherwise stated.
         c.   Bedrooms: Where an on-site parking requirement is stated as a
ratio of parking spaces to bedrooms, any rooms having the potential of being a
bedroom or meeting the standards of the California Building Code as a sleeping
room shall be counted as a bedroom. Offices or other rooms that have the
ability of being converted into bedrooms shall be considered bedrooms for
parking purposes.
         d.   Seats: Where parking requirements are stated as a ratio of
parking spaces to seats, each twenty four inches (24") of bench-type seating at
maximum seating capacity is counted as one seat.
      4.   For Mixed Use Projects: Parking for commercial and residential uses
shall be separately designated by posing, pavement marking, and/or physical
separation.
      5.   When two (2) or more principal uses are located on the same parcel,
the estimated parking demand shall be the sum of the estimated demand of the
various individual uses computed separately, in accordance with this Section,
unless shared parking is approved.
Table 3-3   Required Number of Parking Spaces
Use Spaces Required
Table 3-3   Required Number of Parking Spaces
Use            Spaces Required
Residential
Single Family  Two (2) spaces in garage or carport for each dwelling unit.
Units
Multi-Family   One and one-half (1½) spaces for each one-bedroom dwelling unit
dwellings      Two (2) spaces for each two (2) bedroom dwelling unit
(including     Two and one-half (2½) spaces for each three (3) or more bedroom dwelling
duplexes and   units.
triplexes)     At least one space for each dwelling unit shall be in a garage or
               carport.
Commercial and Recreational
Business and
professional   One space for each four hundred (400) square feet of gross floor area.
offices
Walk-in        One space for each three hundred (300) square feet of gross floor area.
Clientele
Religious      One space for each five (5) seats.
Facilities
Hotels and     One space for each two (2) sleeping rooms.
Motels
Hospital       One space for every two hundred and fifty (250) square feet. plus 1 space
               for each 400 sq. ft. of office area.
Medical/dental
clinic or      One space for each two hundred (200) square feet of gross floor area.
offices
Restaurants,
bars, and
other          One space for each two hundred and fifty (250) square feet of floor area
establishments No additional parking for outdoor eating areas less than two hundred
for            (200) square feet.
consumption of Outdoor dining areas two hundred (200) square feet or more shall provide
food and/or    one space for each two hundred (200) square feet.
beverages on
the premises
Restaurants    One space for each two hundred and fifty (250) square feet of floor area
Take-Out Only
Grocery
stores/
Convenience    One space for each two hundred and fifty (250) square feet of floor area
stores         for the first 20,000 square feet, one space per 300 square feet
(Offsite food  thereafter.
and alcoholic
beverage
sales)
Retail stores
and personal
service such
as but not
limited to:    One space for each two hundred (200) square feet of gross floor area.
hair salon,
nail salon,
tailor shop,
spa etc.
Sports fields  Five spaces per sport venue present on site, plus one space per acre of
and centers    lot area.
Theaters       One space for each four (4 seats)
Manufacturing
Manufacturing,
warehouse,
wholesale uses
and            One space for every 750 square feet of gross floor area
communications
equipment
building
Storage of
materials/     One space for every 1,000 square feet of gross floor area of storage
maintenance
yard
Heavy          One space for every 400 square feet
Industrial
Other
Schools        Elementary and Middle Schools - Two (2) spaces for each classroom
               High Schools - Five (5) spaces for each classroom
               Total spaces needed can be offset with proximate businesses' available
               parking if can be demonstrated they have differing hours of operation and
Shared parking can demonstrate safe pedestrian access to/from said parking. This shall
               be determined on a case-by-case basis by the Community Development
               Director or designee.
On-Street      Total spaces needed can be offset with on-street parking within 500 feet
parking        of the business' main entrance at a credit of 0.5 space for each on-
               street space identified.
               Determined by Director or designee based on the most similar use listed
               above to adequately meet the uses parking demand.
               OR
Undefined uses The parking requirement for uses not specifically listed in the table
               shall be determined by the Director on the basis of requirements for
               similar uses, and on any traffic engineering and planning data that is
               appropriate to the establishment of a minimum requirement.
 
   (E)   Development Standards For Off Street Parking:
      1.   Size:
         (a)   Each required off-street parking space shall have an area of not
less than one hundred and seventy (170) square feet and shall have a width of
not less than eight and one-half feet (8½'), exclusive of drives or aisles.
         (b)   Parking spaces required to be located in a garage or carport
shall not be less than twenty feet (20') in length and ten feet (10') in width
and otherwise meeting the requirements for full sized parking spaces.
      2.   Location:
         (a)   Dwellings, including multiple family dwellings boarding and
lodging houses, fraternities and sororities, shall have all required parking
facilities on the same lot or building site. The required parking spaces shall
be located behind the front, rear and side yard building setbacks of applicable
residential zones and behind landscape setbacks of applicable commercial and
industrial zones.
         (b)   For all other uses, the required parking spaces shall not be
more than six hundred feet (600') from the building or use served thereby,
unless on the same lot or building site. The required parking spaces shall be
located behind the front, rear and side yard setbacks of applicable residential
zones and behind landscape setbacks of applicable commercial and industrial
zones. Distance as herein mentioned shall refer to the distance measured from
the nearest point of the parking facility to the nearest access to the building
or use, along a pedestrian way available to the public or persons to be served
by the facility.
   (F)   Driveway And Site Access:
      1.   Driveways provided access from a street, alley or other public
right-of-way shall be designed and constructed as follows:
         (a)   Only one driveway approach is allowed per frontage for single-
family dwellings, except as provided for in subsection
11-3-4(F)1(b). Any driveway approach shall require an encroachment permit
issued by the City of Selma Public Works department.
         (b)   Single-Family residential lots with street frontage of one
hundred feet (100') or greater on one street shall be eligible for two (2)
drive approaches with approval of the director or designee.
         (c)   All commercial and industrial development shall have a drive
approach that is a minimum of twenty feet (20') in width with a minimum
vertical clearance as defined in City code.
         (d)   Curb cuts for proposed development shall be limited to the
extent that access is provided to the site with minimum of ingress and egress
access points to protect the safe traffic flow of abutting streets. Unless an
exception is granted by the planning commission drive access points in
commercial and industrial zones shall be shared access easements unless it is
not feasible to do so.
   (G)   Bicycle Parking Requirements:
      1.   Bicycle parking spaces, design, and associated facilities shall meet
the following requirements:
 
Table 3-4   Bicycle Parking Requirements
Use                    Short-Term Bicycle Parking  Long-Term Bicycle Parking
                       One bicycle parking space   One bicycle parking space
Non-Residential        for each 9,000 square feet  for each 9,000 square feet
                       of gross floor area         of gross floor area (minimum
                       (minimum of 2 spaces)       of 2 spaces)
All residential uses,  One bicycle parking space   One bicycle parking space
excluding Single-Unit  for each 3 residential      per bedroom (minimum of 1
dwellings and duplexes units (minimum of 2 spaces  space per unit)
                       per site)
                       Same as specified above for Same as specified above for
Mixed-use development  projects within 1 mile of   projects within 1 mile of
                       existing or future bicycle  existing or future bicycle
                       facilities                  facilities
Notes:
 
      2.   Bicycle Parking Design: Bicycle parking areas shall meet the
following requirements
         (a)   Parking Racks: Each bicycle parking space shall include a
stationary parking rack to adequately support the bicycle. Bicycle racks should
allow the bicycle frame and at least one wheel to be locked to the rack using a
U-lock and should support the bicycle in at least two (2) places.
         (b)   Parking Layout:
            (1)   Aisles: Access to bicycle parking spaces shall be at least
five feet (5') in width.
            (2)   Spaces: Access to bicycle parking spaces shall be designed to
maintain a minimum of two feet (2') in width and six feet (6') in length and
have a minimum of seven feet (7') of overhead clearance.
            (3)   Bicycle Parking Location:
               A.   Long-Term Bicycle Parking: Bicycle parking should be
conveniently located on the ground floor of a structure, in a secured location
within proximity to the main entrance of the structure and shall not interfere
with pedestrian access. Bicycle spaces may be wall-mounted but shall not be
located within required storage areas for the building.
               B.   Security: Long-term bicycle parking shall be in at least
one of the following facilities:
                  i.   An enclosed bicycle locker;
                  ii.   An enclosed locked bicycle storage area with bicycle
racks within;
                  iii.   A rack or stand inside the ground floor of a structure
that is within view of an attendant or security guard.
                     •   Short-Term, Visitor Bicycle Parking: Visitor bicycle
parking spaces shall be located in well-lit and convenient areas on private
property within thirty feet (30') of the main entrance to the building or
business.
                     •   Short-Term, Visitor Bicycle Parking Exception: For
existing buildings where the existing site constraints prohibit siting short-
term bicycle parking on-site, the applicant shall satisfy the requirement by
paying the City an established cost of an appropriately sized bicycle rack for
providing the short-term parking within the public right-of-way.
      3.   Relationship To Motor Vehicle Parking: Bicycle spaces shall be
separated from motor vehicle parking spaces or aisles by a fence, wall, or
curb, or by at least five feet (5') of open area, marked to prohibit motor
vehicle parking.
      4.   Surfacing: The surface of bicycle parking areas shall be subject to
approval of the director or designee and shall minimize dust
      5.   Bicycle Parking-Associated Shower And Locker Facilities: New non-
residential buildings and non-residential buildings undergoing a major
enlargement or modification shall provide bicycle parking shower and locker
facilities in compliance with the following standards:
      6.   Shower And Dressing Areas: A minimum of one shower facility shall be
provided in new projects with a gross floor area between 10,000 and 24,999
square feet, two (2) showers in projects between 25,000 square feet and 124,999
square feet, and four (4) showers for any project over 125,000 square feet.
Dressing areas shall also be provided for shower facilities.
      7.   Locations: Shower and locker locations shall be in a secured
interior location of the building. No shower or locker facilities shall be
located within a parking structure or garage.
      8.   Lockers: Clothing and other personal effects shall be located in
close proximity to showers and dressing areas to permit access to locker areas.
A minimum of eight (8) clothes lockers per each shower shall be provided.
      9.   Review And Approval: The review authority shall review and approve
the design of shower and clothes locker facilities with respect to safety,
security, and convenience.
      10.   Shower And Locker Exception: An owner of an existing building
subject to the requirements of this Section shall be exempt from providing
onsite shower and locker facilities upon submitting proof to the Director or
Designee that the owner has made arrangements with a health club or other
facility, located within .25 mile of the building, to provide showers and
lockers at no cost to the employees who work in the owner's building.
   (H)   Loading Space Requirements:
      1.   Loading spaces are required when a building is to be occupied by a
manufacturing establishment, storage facility, warehouse facility, retail
store, eating and drinking, wholesale store, market, hotel, hospital, mortuary,
laundry, dry-cleaning establishment, or other use similarly requiring the
receipt or distribution by vehicles or trucks of material or merchandise.
      2.   The following apply to commercial and office districts, or any non-
residential district that abuts a residential district.
         (a)   Areas for loading and unloading shall be designed to avoid
potential adverse noise, visual, air quality, and illumination impacts on
neighboring residences. These areas shall be concealed from view of the public
and adjoining land uses.
         (b)   Loading bays shall have signage requiring drivers to limit
idling to five (5) minutes or less.
         (c)   When it is not possible or desirable to locate the loading/
unloading facilities at the rear of the structures, the loading docks and
loading doors shall be located on the side of the structures and shall be
screened from the public street rights-of-way.
 
Table 3-5   Loading Space Requirements
Square Footage              Required Loading Spaces
0-6,999 square feet         0
7,000-40,000 square feet    1
40,001-90,000 square feet   2
90,001-150,000 square feet  3
150,001-230,000 square feet 4
 
   (I)   Electrical Vehicle Charging Stations:
      1.   Electric Vehicle (EV) Parking Requirements For Residential Land
Uses:
         (a)   One- and two-family dwellings and townhouses with attached
private garages.
            (1)   For each new dwelling unit, install two Level 2 EV Ready
Spaces. For dwelling units with only one parking space, install one Level 2 EV
Ready Space.
            (2)   New Accessory Dwelling Units constructed on the lot are
required to include the installation of two Level 2 EV Ready Spaces. For
Accessory Dwelling Units with only one parking space, install one Level 2 EV
Ready Space.
         (b)   Multi-Family Dwellings:
            (1)   For multifamily buildings with less than or equal to twenty
(20) dwelling units, one parking space per dwelling unit with parking shall be
provided with a Level 2 EV Ready Space.
            (2)   When more than twenty (20) multifamily dwelling units are
constructed, seventy five percent (75%) of the dwelling units with parking
spaces shall be provided with at least one Level 2 EV Ready Space spaces
capable of supporting future Electric Vehicle Supply Equipment (EVSE).
Calculations for the required minimum number of Level 2 EV Ready spaces shall
be rounded up to the nearest whole number. In addition, each remaining dwelling
unit with parking space(s) shall be provided with at least a Level 2 EV Capable
Circuit.
         (c)   Exceptions:
            (1)   Accessory Dwelling Units without additional parking
facilities are not required to comply with this Section.
            (2)   Spaces accessible only by automated mechanical car parking
systems are excepted from providing EV charging infrastructure.
      2.   Electric Vehicle Parking Requirements For Nonresidential Land Uses:
         (a)   Office Buildings: In buildings designated primarily for office
use, when ten (10) or more parking spaces are constructed, twenty percent (20%)
of the available parking spaces on site shall be equipped with a Level 2
Electric Vehicle Charging Station (EVCS). An additional thirty percent (30%)
shall be at least Level 2 EV Capable. Calculations for the required minimum
number of spaces equipped with Level 2 EVCS, Level 2 EV Ready spaces and EV
Capable spaces shall all be rounded up to the nearest whole number.
         (b)   Service Stations: New and remodeled service stations shall be
equipped with one Level 3 EVCS per every three fueling pumps. Calculations for
the required minimum number of spaces equipped with Level 3 EVCS shall all be
rounded up to the nearest whole number.
         (c)   Other Nonresidential Buildings: In nonresidential buildings that
are not designated primarily for office or gas station use, such as hotel,
retail, industrial, or public and institutional uses, when ten (10) or more
parking spaces are constructed, fifteen percent (15%) of the available parking
spaces on site shall be equipped with Level 2 EVCS. Calculations for the
required minimum number of spaces equipped with Level 2 EVCS, Level 2 EV Ready
spaces and EV Capable spaces shall all be rounded up to the nearest whole
number.
         (d)   Exceptions:
            (1)   Institutional Uses: At the discretion of the zoning
administrator, modified EV parking requirements may be permitted for
institutional uses on a case-by-case basis if compelling reasons exist for
reduced or modified EV parking, depending on the circumstances for the
particular use
      3.   Electric Vehicle Parking Requirements For Mixed Uses:
         (a)   Mixed use developments shall comply with the applicable
residential and nonresidential requirements specified in subsection
11-3-4(D), above in accordance with the square footage and number of parking
spaces by land use type.
            (1)   Technical Requirements: Raceways for electric vehicle
charging spaces are required to be installed at the time of construction and
shall be installed prior to occupancy/operation in accordance with the
California Electrical Code. Construction plans and specifications shall
include, but are not limited to, the following:
         (b)   The type and location of the EVSE.
         (c)   The raceway(s) shall originate at a service panel or a subpanel
(s) serving the area and shall terminate in close proximity to the proposed
location of the charging equipment and into listed suitable cabinet(s), box
(es), enclosure(s) or equivalent.
         (d)   Electrical calculations shall substantiate the design of the
electrical system, to include the rating of equipment and any on-site
distribution transformers and have sufficient capacity to simultaneously charge
all required EVCS at its full rated amperage.
         (e)   The service panel or subpanel(s) shall have sufficient capacity
to accommodate the required number of dedicated branch circuit(s) for the
future installation of the EVSE.
         (f)   Electric vehicle charging stations shall be equipped with
electrical outlets, and may also be equipped with card readers, controls,
connector devices and other equipment as necessary for use. Electric cords
shall not cross a pathway. All such equipment shall be in compliance with the
Building Regulations in Title 24, including all applicable provisions of the
California Green Building Standards Code pertaining to electric vehicle
charging.
      4.   Electric Vehicle Definitions:
         (a)   Electric Vehicle Capable Space: A parking space linked to a
listed electrical panel with sufficient capacity to provide at least 208/240
volts and 40 amperes to the parking space. Raceways linking the electrical
panel and parking space only need to be installed in spaces that will be
inaccessible in the future, either trenched underground or where penetrations
to walls, floors, or other partitions would otherwise be required for future
installation of branch circuits. Raceways must be at least one inch (1") in
diameter and may be sized for multiple circuits as allowed by the California
Electrical Code. The panel circuit directory shall identify the overcurrent
protective device space(s) reserved for EV charging as "EV CAPABLE."
Construction documents shall indicate future completion of raceway from the
panel to the parking space, via the installed inaccessible raceways.
         (b)   Level 1 EV Ready Space (EVRS): A parking space served by a
complete electric circuit with a minimum of 120-volt, 20-ampere capacity
including electrical panel capacity, overprotection device, a minimum 1"-
diameter raceway that may include multiple circuits as allowed by the
California Electrical Code, wiring, and either a) a receptacle labeled
"Electric Vehicle Outlet" with at least a ½" font adjacent to the parking
space, or b) EVSE.
         (c)   Level 2 EV Ready Space: A parking space served by a complete
electric circuit with 208-240-volt, 40 ampere capacity including electrical
panel capacity, overprotection device, a minimum1"-diameter raceway that may
include multiple circuits as allowed by the California Electrical Code, wiring,
and either a) a receptacle labeled "Electric Vehicle Outlet" with at least a ½"
font adjacent to the parking space, or b) EVSE with a minimum output of 30
amperes.
         (d)   Level 3 EV Ready Space: A parking space served by a complete
electric circuit with a minimum 400-volt capacity including electrical panel
capacity, overprotection device, a minimum 1- diameter raceway that may include
multiple circuits as allowed by the California Electrical Code, wiring, and a
receptacle labeled "Electric Vehicle Outlet" with at least a ½" font adjacent
to the parking space b) 400-volt EVSE.
         (e)   Electric Vehicle Charging Station (EVCS): A parking space that
includes installation of electric vehicle supply equipment (EVSE) with a
minimum capacity of 30 amperes connected to a Level 2 EV Ready Space. EVCS
installation may be used to satisfy a Level 2 EV Ready Space requirement.
         (f)   Automatic Load Management Systems (ALMS): A control system which
allows multiple EV chargers or EV-Ready electric vehicle outlets to share a
circuit or panel and automatically reduce power at each charger, providing the
opportunity to reduce electrical infrastructure costs and/or provide demand
response capability. ALMS systems must be designed to deliver at least 1.4kW
per charger to each EV Capable, EV Ready, or EVCS space served by ALMS. The
connected amperage on-site shall not be lower than the required connected
amperage per Part 11, 2019 California Green Building Code for the relevant
building types.
      5.   Alternate Vehicle Parking Requirements-All Vehicles:
         (a)   All of the alternative vehicle parking spaces required under
this section, including electric vehicle charging stations, shall be counted
toward the off-street parking required by Section 11-3-4 and the accessible
parking spaces, including electric vehicle charging spaces, shall be as
required by the current California Building Code.
         (b)   All of the alternative vehicle parking spaces required under
this Section, including electric vehicle charging stations, shall be clearly
marked with both signage and pavement stencils, except that in private garages
associated with single-family, townhome, and Accessory Dwelling Unit uses.
         (c)   Parking spaces required under this Section, including electric
vehicle charging stations, shall meet the dimensional standards of subsection
11-3-4(E) of this chapter. Electric vehicle charging equipment shall not reduce
the size of the parking space. (Ord. 2024-6, 6-17-2024)
11-3-5: LANDSCAPING:
   (A)   Purpose And Intent: The City promotes the value and benefits of
landscaping while recognizing the need to use limited water resources as
efficiently as possible. In compliance with applicable State standards and
guidelines, this Section establishes minimum landscape standards for all uses
for enhancing the appearance of developments, reducing heat and glare,
enhancing on-site stormwater management, conserving water, establishing a
buffer and/or screen between residential and non-residential land uses, and
ensuring the ongoing maintenance of landscaped areas.
   (B)   Applicability: The standards of this section shall apply to all
landscaping installed in the City.
   (C)   Compliance With State Standards: The design, installation, and
maintenance of all landscaped area within the City shall comply with State
requirements for water efficient landscaping as contained in Title 23 Section
2.7 Model Water Efficient Landscape Ordinance of the California Code of
Regulations.
   (D)   General Landscape Standards:
      1.   General Landscape Design: Landscaping shall be a positive element of
the project design. The landscaping shall be designed to protect storm water
quality and enhance the aesthetic quality of the development by using the
following design standards:
         (a)   Landscaping shall be used to manage and treat storm water to the
maximum extent feasible;
         (b)   Only healthy, well-formed, and vigorous plant materials may be
used;
         (c)   Landscaping shall be located in all yard areas that are not
specifically used for parking, driveways, patios, or similar purposes, unless
otherwise specified in this article. Sidewalks, pedestrian walks and pathways
are permitted in landscaped areas;
         (d)   Landscape areas shall incorporate varieties of plant textures,
colors, geometries, and leaf densities. Year-round visual interest shall be
introduced through an appropriate balance of evergreen/deciduous and flowering
perennials.
         (e)   Landscaping shall be incorporated to reduce monotony of long
expanses of building, fence or other structures;
         (f)   Landscaping shall screen parking areas from adjacent streets;
         (g)   The density and placement of plants are to be determined by the
plant size at maturity. When initially installed, groundcover shall give enough
coverage for a pleasing appearance on all landscaped areas;
         (h)   A minimum of fifty percent (50%) of the landscape area shall
consist of plant materials. The remaining fifty percent (50%) of area deemed
for landscaping may be covered with permeable ground coverings, e.g., rock,
bark, decomposed granite or similar materials;
         (i)   Sturdy raised curbs shall protect all landscape areas from
driveways and parking areas. Cutouts in curbs may be incorporated when
surrounding vegetative drainage swales, storm water retention features and/or
other treatment features;
         (j)   Wheel stops need not be provided in parking areas where the
front two feet of the landscape area is planted with low groundcover to
accommodate car overhang;
         (k)   Trees of varieties with broad canopies shall be provided to
shade walkways and parking areas to temper heat from paved areas, and to screen
long structure frontages;
         (l)   Existing on-site vegetation shall be preserved, unless
determined otherwise by the Community Development Director, to maintain on-site
water quality and sediment control;
         (m)   All trees shall be a minimum size of fifteen (15) gallons when
initially installed;
         (n)   Deep root irrigation shall be provided to prevent pavement
damage where trees are planted within three feet of city pavement or sidewalks.
         (o)   All plant materials within the city right-of-way (e.g., medians,
etc.) shall be approved by the director of public works for minimum size and
species type;
      2.   New Plant Material: New plant material shall be carefully selected
to comply with the following standards:
         (a)   The overall compatibility of the ultimate form, size, density,
and color of trees, shrubs, and groundcover at maturity;
         (b)   The tolerance of the plant materials to existing physical
conditions, and resistance to insect pests, and disease; and
         (c)   The intended use (i.e., shade screening, windbreak, erosion
control, storm water treatment and management, etc.) as well as the ease of
maintenance.
         (d)   Indigenous trees and other plant materials are encouraged.
   (E)   Landscape Requirements For Zone Classifications:
      1.   Single-Family Zones: Residential development located in all single-
family zones shall incorporate landscaping in all yard areas that are not
specifically used for driveways, walkways, patios, or similar purposes.
Landscaping shall be used to manage and treat storm water to the maximum extent
feasible.
      2.   Multi-Family Zones: Residential development located in all multi-
family zones shall incorporate landscaping in all yard areas that are not
specifically used for driveways, walkways, patios, or similar purposes. In
addition, at least thirty five percent (35%) of the required landscaped area
shall be designed to be usable as open recreational area. Landscaping shall be
used to manage and treat storm water to the maximum extent feasible.
      3.   Commercial Zones: Landscaping in commercial zones shall be designed
using the following standards and shall enhance the aesthetic quality of the
development by using the following requirements.
         (a)   All development in commercial and mixed-use zones shall provide
a minimum of twenty one feet (21') of landscaping, measured from face of curb,
adjacent to public streets (public sidewalks may be permitted in the landscape
area);
         (b)   At least eight percent (8%) of the gross total land area of the
site, outside of the public right-of-way, shall be landscaped, except in the
downtown specific plan zones where there are typically no front and side yard
setbacks;
         (c)   All portions of a site over forty (40) square feet in area not
specifically used for buildings, parking, driveways, walkways, or similar uses
shall be landscaped;
         (d)   In all landscaped areas, trees shall be planted on average every
twenty feet (20') on center or with a greater spacing as appropriate to
maintain proper tree health as determined by a licensed landscape architect;
clustering of trees may be permitted with the approval of the director of
public works;
         (e)   Parking lot landscape islands with a minimum of fifty (50)
square feet in area, and including a tree, shall be located in parking lots
every twelve (12) stalls, and shall be evenly distributed throughout the
parking area;
         (f)   All landscape areas shall be at least five feet (5') wide,
except as approved by the Community Development Director due to specific site
situations where the minimum width is impractical;
         (g)   Parking lot landscape areas containing trees shall be a minimum
of eight feet wide, except as approved by the Community Development Director
due to specific site situations where the minimum width is impractical;
         (h)   Parking areas shall be screened from view from adjacent
residential areas and streets, except at driveways and street corners where
visibility is needed;
         (i)   Landscaping shall be used to manage and treat storm water to the
maximum extent feasible;
         (j)   Three foot (3') high screening shall be located where necessary
in commercial parking lots and drive-through uses to block headlights from
shining into adjacent residential areas.
      4.   Industrial Zones: Landscaping in industrial zones shall be designed
using the following standards and shall enhance the aesthetic quality of the
development by using the following requirements:
         (a)   Landscape the front and side yard areas adjacent to streets, as
required by this article, which are not specifically used for parking,
driveways, walkways, loading areas, or similar paved access areas;
         (b)   Landscaping areas located adjacent to the street right-of-way
shall be a minimum of twenty one feet (21') wide (measured from the face of
curb);
         (c)   Paved areas shall not exceed fifty percent (50%) of the total
area of setbacks;
         (d)   All industrial zones shall provide landscape areas that are a
minimum of five feet (5') in width along the entire perimeter of the site;
         (e)   A minimum eight foot (8') wide landscaped buffer is required
adjacent to commercial or residential uses;
         (f)   Outdoor use areas and loading areas shall be screened by
landscaping and/or materials integral with the structure design;
         (g)   Industrial development visible from Highway 99 shall be screened
from view with dense landscaping;
         (h)   Three foot high screening shall be located where necessary in
industrial parking lots and drive-through uses to block headlights from shining
into adjacent residential areas.
   (F)   New Residential Development: All new development front yard
landscaping shall include, at a minimum, one fifteen (15) gallon size tree and
a permanent irrigation system to be installed by the developer prior to
occupancy.
   (G)   Maintenance Of Landscaped Areas: All landscaped areas shall be
maintained in a healthful and sound condition at all times. Irrigation systems
and their components shall be maintained in a fully functional manner
consistent with the originally approved design and the provisions of this
Chapter. Regular maintenance shall include checking, adjusting, and repairing
irrigation equipment; resetting automatic controllers; aerating and dethatching
turf areas; adding/replenishing mulch, fertilizer, and soil amendments;
pruning; and weeding all landscaped areas. (Ord. 2024-6, 6-17-2024)
11-3-6: FENCES, WALLS, AND HEDGES:
   (A)   Applicability:
      1.   The standards of this Section shall apply to:
         (a)   New fences, walls, or hedges.
         (b)   New development.
         (c)   A request for a discretionary permit.
   These regulations do not apply to fences or walls required by the city for
reasons of public safety.
   (B)   General Height Regulations:
      1.   Front Setbacks: Fences, walls, and hedges shall be limited to the
maximum heights stated below within front setbacks. For the purpose of
regulating the height of fences, walls, and hedges, the front setback area
shall be considered to be the area between the front or street side parcel line
and the nearest building wall or setback line, whichever is the shorter
distance.
         (a)   Hedges, Fences And Walls: Forty eight inches (48") in height.
         (b)   One Pergola Or Similar Feature: Eight feet (8') in height and
width and three feet (3") in depth. Gates or doors are permitted within the
frame of pergolas or similar features.
         (c)   Ornamental Attachments Atop A Fence Or Wall: Twelve inches (12")
above the maximum height limit with a maximum width of twelve inches (12") for
each attachment and a minimum distance of five feet (5') between each
attachment.
         (d)   A guardrail may exceed the maximum height limit for a fence or
wall, but only to the minimum extent required for safety by the Building Code.
Safety guardrails must be at least fifty percent (50%) visually transparent
above the fence or wall height limit.
      2.   Side And Rear Setbacks: Fences, walls, and hedges shall be limited
to the maximum heights stated below if located within side and rear setbacks.
         (a)   Fences And Walls: Six feet (6') measured from existing grade at
the fence or wall.
         (b)   Hedges: Six feet (6'), except that there is no height limit for
hedges adjacent to and located within ten feet (10') of a commercial zoning
district or street, measured perpendicularly from the side or rear property
line that is adjacent to the commercial property or street.
         (c)   A guardrail may exceed the maximum height limit for a fence, but
only to the minimum extent required for safety by the Building Code. Safety
guardrails must be at least fifty percent (50%) visually transparent above
fence height limit.
      3.   Administrative Height Modifications: A parcel owner may request a
modification to the height limit of a proposed front, side or rear fence, wall,
or hedge, pursuant to Chapter
11-6-6, Director Review and Approval.
   (C)   Measurement Of Fence, Wall Or Hedge:
      1.   Fences, Walls, and Hedges, no person shall permit any obstruction,
including, but not limited to, any fence, wall, hedge, tree, or landscape
planting to obscure or block the visibility of vehicles entering or exiting an
alley, driveway, parking lot, street intersection, or other vehicle right-of-
way or to constitute an unreasonable and unnecessary hazard to persons lawfully
using an adjacent pedestrian or vehicle right-of-way. In addition, no
obstruction shall be located less than five feet (5') from the intersection of
the street-facing parcel line with a driveway or garage door, or the
intersection of parcel lines adjacent to street or alley intersections unless
the obstruction is either less than twenty four inches (24") above the adjacent
vehicle right-of-way or is authorized pursuant to subsection (B). In addition,
unless authorized pursuant to subsection (B), no obstruction shall be located
less than five feet (5') from the intersection of the alley-facing parcel line
with a driveway or garage door, and this area must be paved in accordance with
Chapter
11-3-4, Off Street Parking.
      2.   No development shall be allowed if it would otherwise cause an
existing obstruction to be in violation of this subsection unless:
         (a)   The obstruction is less than twenty four inches (24") above the
adjacent vehicle right-of-way; or
         (b)   The obstruction or development is authorized pursuant to
subsection (B) or (C) of this Section.
      3.   The Director or designee may approve encroachments into the five
foot (5') hazardous visual area in addition to those specified in subsection
(A) of this Section when the parcel owner submits a written request and
satisfactory evidence that:
         (a)   Characteristics applicable to the parcel, including size, shape,
topography, location, or surroundings, that do not apply to other properties in
the vicinity which unreasonably restricts an owner's ability to comply with
subsection (A); and
         (b)   The proposed encroachment will be designed to maintain adequate
sight view and/or provide other design elements, such as the use of mirrors and
will not constitute a hazard to persons lawfully using an adjacent sidewalk,
alley, street or other right-of-way;
         (c)   The strict application of the provisions of this Section would
result in practical difficulties or unnecessary hardships, not including
economic difficulties or economic hardships, or would result in unreasonable
deprivation of the use or enjoyment of the parcel; and
         (d)   The granting of the encroachment will not be contrary to or in
conflict with the general purposes and intent of this Section, nor to the
goals, objectives, and policies of the General Plan.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b007bab647711b625891d40e4fcc5f1077aea100/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3923.jpg]
Figure 3-2
      4.   Measurement Of Height. For purposes of this Subsection, a wall or
fence that is located within five feet (5') of a public street right-of-way
shall be measured from the grade of the abutting public right-of-way, except in
cases where severe or unusual slope conditions exist, in which case an
alternative basis for measurement may be determined by the Director. The height
of a wall or fence located along an interior property line shall be measured
from the higher natural or established grade of the two (2) abutting
properties.
      5.   Measuring The Height Of Fences On Retaining Walls: Notwithstanding
the above, the height of a fence that is on top of a retaining wall is measured
from the lowest existing grade point within a three foot (3') radius of any
point on such fence to the highest point of the fence on the highest side of
the wall. Any fence or railing required to comply with minimum height in
applicable Building Code requirements is permitted.
   (D)   Special Wall And Fence Requirements:
      1.   Temporary Fencing: Temporary fencing may be approved as deemed
necessary and appropriate by the Director.
      2.   Barbed Wire Fencing: The Director may approve a fence incorporating
barbed wire if:
         (a)   Not Abutting Residential: The fence is erected or maintained on
a property line that does not about a residential zoning district;
         (b)   Clearance Of Support Arms: The barbed wire is supported by arms
that attach to a fence that has a minimum height of eight feet (8') above
finish grade;
         (c)   Design Of Support Arms: The arms that support the barbed wire
rise at a forty five degree (45°) angle on the inside of the fence, beginning
at minimum height of six feet, six inches (6'6") above finish grade to a
maximum height of eight feet (8') above finish grade;
         (d)   Fence Design: The fence is either wood link, industrial privacy,
or similar type that the Director agrees will conceal the barbed wire from
public view from immediately outside the fence;
         (e)   Setbacks:
            (1)   All required setbacks are met; and
            (2)   Warning Signs: Warning signs, at least eight and a half
inches by eleven inches (8½" x 11") in size, are posted no more than ten feet
(10') apart on the outside of the fence that does not about an interior
property line. The sign shall have letters at least 1 inch in height and shall
give sufficient warning that the fence incorporates barbed wire.
            (3)   Hold Harmless Agreement: Prior to issuance of any permit to
install razor or concertina wire in an industrial district, the property owner
must sign a written hold harmless agreement, in a form satisfactory to the city
Attorney. The agreement shall release and indemnify the city in the event of
liability, loss, costs and damages, including, but not limited to, personal
injury, death or property damage, arising directly or indirectly out of the use
of the special security topping.
         (f)   Maintenance: All fences, walls, and hedges shall be maintained
in a safe, neat and orderly condition at all times.
         (g)   Encroaching Hedges: The owner of a hedge shall maintain the
hedge so that it does not encroach onto the parcel of an adjoining parcel and
the public right-of-way. If any portion of a hedge, including its roots,
encroaches onto the parcel of an adjoining parcel, the owner of the adjoining
parcel shall, after giving thirty (30) days' notice and opportunity to cure,
have the right to remove those portions of the hedge that encroach on their
parcel back to the parcel line so long as they act reasonably, and the removal
does not cause unnecessary injury. The adjoining parcel owner shall have the
right to file a civil action to recover all costs reasonably incurred in
removing the encroaching portions of the hedge. (Ord. 2024-6, 6-17-2024)
11-3-7: LIGHTING:
   (A)   Purpose And Intent: The purpose of this Section is to regulate outdoor
lighting to balance the safety and security needs for lighting with the City's
desire to preserve dark skies and to ensure that light trespass and glare have
a negligible impact on surrounding property (especially residential) and
roadways.
   (B)   Applicability: The requirements of this Section apply to all new
development. Whenever a person is required to obtain a Building Permit,
Electrical Permit, and/or approval of a discretionary permit, the applicant
shall submit sufficient information for the Review Authority to determine
whether the proposed lighting will comply with the requirements of this
Section.
   (C)   Exempt Lighting:
      1.   The following shall be exempt from the requirements of this Section:
         (a)   Temporary lights used for holiday decorations.
         (b)   Emergency lighting erected for official purposes by local,
State, or Federal agencies.
         (c)   Lighting for temporary uses and special events permitted
consistent within this Zoning Code.
   (D)   Prohibited Lighting:
      1.   The following types of lighting are prohibited:
         (a)   Search lights, laser source lights, or any similar high-
intensity light, except for emergency use by police or fire personnel or at
their discretion, or for approved temporary lighting for a special event
approved by the City.
         (b)   Lighting fixtures operated in a manner as to constitute a hazard
or danger to persons or to safe vehicular travel.
         (c)   Roof-mounted lighting except for security purposes.
         (d)   Moving, flashing, or animated lighting
   (E)   General Lighting Requirements:
      1.   Nuisance Prevention: All outdoor lighting shall be designed,
located, installed, directed downward or toward structures, fully shielded, and
maintained in order to prevent glare, light trespass, and light pollution and
away from adjoining properties and public rights-of-way, so that no light
fixture directly illuminates an area outside of the project site.
      2.   Maintenance: Fixtures and lighting shall be maintained in good
working order and in a manner that serves the original design intent.
         (a)   Lighting fixtures shall be weather and vandal resistant.
         (b)   Burnt-out and broken light bulbs shall be replaced immediately.
         (c)   Lighting fixtures shall remain free of graffiti and rust.
         (d)   Painted light fixtures shall be maintained to minimize chipping
or peeling.
      3.   Level Of Illumination: Outdoor lighting shall be designed to
illuminate at the minimum level necessary for safety and security and to avoid
the harsh contrasts in lighting levels between the project site and adjacent
properties.
      4.   Signs: Lighting of signs shall be in compliance with Section
11-3-8 (Signs).
      5.   Sports Fields/Activity Areas: Where playing fields or other
specialty activity areas are to be illuminated, lighting fixtures shall be
mounted, aimed, and shielded so that the light falls within the primary playing
area and that light levels at the adjacent parcel are less than 0.1 foot-
candle. Additionally, the lights shall be turned off within one hour after the
end of the event.
      6.   Maximum Height Of Freestanding Outdoor Light Fixtures: The maximum
height of freestanding outdoor light fixtures on nonresidential property
abutting residential development shall be fifteen feet (15'). The height limit
for light fixtures in industrial zoning districts is twenty five feet (25'). In
all other nonresidential development types, the maximum height for freestanding
outdoor light structures shall be twenty feet (20'). Height shall be measured
from the finish grade to the bottom of the lens of the fixture.
         (a)   Sports Field Freestanding Outdoor Light Fixtures: The maximum
height of freestanding sports field outdoor light fixtures on nonresidential
property abutting residential development shall be forty feet (40') and shall
comply with Subsection (E)5 above.
         (b)   All Other Freestanding Outdoor Light Fixtures: The maximum
height of freestanding outdoor light fixtures on nonresidential property
abutting residential development shall be fifteen feet (15'). The height limit
for light fixtures in industrial zoning districts is twenty five feet (25'). In
all other nonresidential development types, the maximum height for freestanding
outdoor light structures shall be twenty feet (20'). Height shall be measured
from the finish grade to the bottom of the lens of the fixture.
      7.   Energy-Efficient Fixtures Required: Outdoor lighting shall use
dimmable white lighting and comply with all applicable requirements of the
California Electrical Code. All new outdoor lighting fixtures shall be energy
efficient with a rated average bulb life of not less than ten thousand (10,000)
hours.
      8.   Accent Lighting: Architectural features may be illuminated by up-
lighting, provided that the lamps are low-intensity, and no glare or light
trespass is produced. (Ord. 2024-6, 6-17-2024)
11-3-8: SIGNS:
   (A)   Purpose And Intent:
      1.   Purpose: The purpose of this Chapter is to provide minimum standards
to safeguard the life, health, property, and public welfare in keeping with the
character of the City by establishing and maintaining standards for the size,
height, structural design, quality of materials, construction, location,
illumination, and maintenance of signs to accomplish the following results:
         (a)   To enhance the economic value of the community through the
regulation of the size, location, design, and illumination of signs;
         (b)   To provide a reasonable and comprehensive system of controls for
signs;
         (c)   To encourage a desirable urban character;
         (d)   To encourage signs which are well designed and pleasing in
appearance; and
         (e)   To attract and direct persons to various activities and
enterprises in order to provide for maximum public convenience.
      2.   Applicability: The standards established in this Chapter shall apply
to all exterior signs and sign structures including signs attached to or
affixed upon the interior of windows.
   (B)   Effect Of Chapter:
      1.   Content Neutrality: It is the City's policy and intent to regulate
both commercial and noncommercial signs from a viewpoint-neutral and content-
neutral manner. Sign message and copy shall not be evaluated, except to
determine the type and category of the sign.
      2.   Message Substitution: Signs authorized by this Chapter are allowed
to display noncommercial messages in lieu of any other commercial or
noncommercial messages. This provision prevails over any more specific
provision to the contrary within this Chapter. The purpose of this provision is
to prevent an inadvertent favoring of commercial speech over noncommercial
speech or favoring of any specific noncommercial message over any other
noncommercial message.
   (C)   Exempt Signs:
      1.   Exempt Sign: The following signs are allowed without a Sign Permit
in any zone and shall not be included in the determination of type, number, or
area or signs allowed on each parcel. Exempted signs shall be required to
adhere to the regulations established for each sign type as provided in this
Section (definitions can be found in Section
11-8-1).
         (a)   Signs required by Federal/State law;
         (b)   Official signs posted by a governmental body, including, flags,
banners, emblems, or signs issued by a government body including notices,
traffic or highway signs, railroad crossing signs, or similar regulatory or
warning devices and legal notices;
         (c)   Holiday displays and decorations, only when not creating a
traffic hazard or located within any visual setback area in the sight distance
triangle;
         (d)   Commemorative or memorial plaques, tables, date of construction,
and similar signs constructed of permanent material. Only one sign for each
structure, not to exceed two square feet in area for each sign is allowed;
         (e)   Signs located inside a structure, provided these signs are not
conspicuously visible and readable from a public street or adjacent properties
not under the same ownership;
         (f)   "No Trespassing" signs. Each sign is limited to one square foot
in area. Signs may be placed at each corner and each entrance to a parcel and
at intervals of not less than fifty feet (50') or in compliance with legal
requirements;
         (g)   Real Estate Signs:
            (1)   "For Rent", "For Sale", and "For Lease" signs shall be posted
on the subject parcel, including common driveways, that is being advertised by
an authorized agent;
            (2)   Real estate signs shall not exceed eight (8) square feet for
single-family residential and thirty two (32) square feet for multi-family or
non-residential for each side of a double-sided sign;
            (3)   Shall not be placed in the public right-of-way;
            (4)   There shall be no more than one sign per street frontage; and
            (5)   Illuminated real estate signs are prohibited.
         (h)   Weekend off-site subdivision directional and off-site open house
signs subject to the following regulations:
            (1)   Such signs shall not exceed ten (10) signs per subdivision or
shall not exceed two signs per open house.
            (2)   Such signs shall not exceed four (4) square feet.
            (3)   Such signs shall not be placed in any public right-of-way or
on any public utility fixture. No sign shall be placed without the property
owner's permission.
            (4)   Signs shall be posted no earlier than five o'clock (5:00)
P.M. of Friday afternoon and shall be removed not later than nine o'clock (9:
00) A.M. on Monday morning. If a legal holiday extends the weekend, signs may
be posted during that holiday.
            (5)   Off-site subdivision and open house signs shall be subject to
abatement.
         (i)   Signs placed by utilities or other publicly regulated service
providers indicating location of underground facilities, danger, and aids to
service or safety, including official advisory and signal flags;
         (j)   Copy changes in approved changeable copy signs;
         (k)   Signs or notices incidental to a commercial, mixed-use, or
industrial establishment (e.g., hours of operation, credit card information,
emergency contact information, help wanted, open-close) provided the signs do
not contain any commercial messages, the establishment logo, and in total do
not exceed four square feet in area for all incidental signs; and
         (l)   Window signs window signs not exceeding twenty five percent
(25%) of a tenant's total window space but prohibit the outline of windows with
neon/LED light borders.
      2.   Routine Maintenance: Painting, repainting, cleaning, and/or other
maintenance of a sign shall not be considered erecting or altering a sign. No
Sign Permit shall be required unless structural changes are proposed.
      3.   Building Permit May Be Required: Under certain circumstances,
temporary signs and other exempt signs may require a Building or Electrical
Permit, as required by the uniform codes adopted by the City.
   D.   Prohibited Signs:
      1.   Except as otherwise provided in this Chapter, the following signs
including any sign on public property or within the public right-of-way, except
government signs, shall be prohibited in the City.
         (a)   Animated signs.
         (b)   Signs emitting foreign material or sound.
         (c)   Flashing signs, except for time and temperature signs and
electronic reader boards.
         (d)   Revolving signs, except barber poles.
         (e)   Movable signs mounted on trailers, trucks or similar conveyance.
         (f)   Pennants, banners, and flags except as specifically allowed by
this Chapter.
         (g)   Off-site signs, except as specifically allowed by this Chapter.
         (h)   Signs that display a message, graphic presentation, or other
image that is obscene as defined by section 311 of the California Penal Code.
         (i)   Roof Signs: All signs mounted on or above the roof line of a
structure, except that, the placement of signs on a mansard roof are allowed
provided that such signs are placed in the lower two-thirds (2/3) of the
mansard and no portion of the sign extends into the top one-third (1/3) of the
mansard roof. All mansard roof signs shall be integrated into the mansard
structure.
         (j)   Projecting Signs: No projecting signs are allowed except barber
poles which may project twenty four inches (24").
         (k)   Signs imitative of official street and traffic control signs,
except when used for on-site traffic direction. Such signs would include those
which contain or imitate an official traffic sign or signal, or containing the
words stop, go, slow, caution, danger, warning, or similar words which in
context of the sign could be misconstrued to be a traffic or safety warning
sign.
         (l)   Portable signs (including sign(s) placed on operable other than
stationary vehicle).
         (m)   Signs which are cut, burned, limed, painted or otherwise marked
on a field, tree, rock or other natural feature.
   (E)   General Provisions:
      1.   Purpose: The following general provisions are applicable to all
signs regulated by this Chapter.
      2.   Entitlements Strictly Construed: Because the regulations in this
Chapter are established to protect the public health, safety and general
welfare, any sign entitlement authorized hereunder shall be strictly construed
to further the purposes of this Chapter.
      3.   Sign Variance: The Planning Commission may grant a sign variance for
a sign, provided that strict and literal interpretation and enforcement of this
Chapter would create an unnecessary hardship to the applicant. An unnecessary
hardship may result from the size, shape, or dimensions of a site, or the
existing locations of structures on the site, or the physical conditions on the
site or immediately adjacent to the site. In no case shall the variance be
granted for greater than ten percent (10%) of any one aspect of the sign from
the sign code. The applicant shall file an application as provided by the
Community Development Department, fees and an exact statement as to what
hardship would be created. The decision of the Planning Commission may be
appealed to the City Council in compliance with the appeals process establish
by this Chapter.
      4.   Illumination Of Signs: Unless otherwise prohibited by this Chapter,
signs requiring a permit may be illuminated subject to approval by the
Community Development Department.
      5.   Obstruction Of Public Passage: No sign shall be erected so as to
obstruct any door, fire escape or other emergency exit of any structure. No
sign shall be erected in any public right-of-way.
      6.   Construction: All signs, parts and supporting structures shall be
constructed in compliance with all applicable Federal, State and City laws and
regulations. Any person engaged in the construction of signs shall have
appropriate and valid licenses.
      7.   Sign Setbacks: All freestanding signs shall be setback a minimum of
five feet from any property line as measured from the nearest portion of the
sign and its supports.
      8.   Right To Remove: No portion of this Chapter shall prohibit the
owner, or his authorized representative, of property from removing a sign from
his property. Further, nothing in this Subsection shall prohibit the Director
from directing the immediate abatement of dangerous and unsafe signs.
      9.   Maintenance Of Signs: The following maintenance standards shall
apply to all signs:
         (a)   All signs, parts and supporting structures shall be continuously
maintained in a safe, structurally sound, neatly painted, and well repaired
condition.
         (b)   Illuminated signs shall be capable of being fully illuminated
and legible. The faces of such a sign shall be intact without holes or other
facial damage.
   (F)   Sign Permit Requirements And Inspections:
      1.   Administration: It shall be the duty of the Community Development
Department to enforce the provisions of this Chapter.
      2.   Inspections: Every sign erected in the City shall be subject to
inspection to assure compliance with the provisions of this Chapter and all
other laws and ordinances of the City.
      3.   Permits Required: Except as otherwise provided in this Chapter, it
shall be unlawful for any person to erect, alter, relocate, change, or
otherwise modify a sign within the City without first obtaining approval from
the Community Development Department.
      4.   Legal Interest In Property: To file an application for any action
under this Chapter, the applicant shall have a certain legal interest in the
real property which is the subject of the application. Legal interest shall be
one of the following:
         (a)   Owner;
         (b)   Lessee, limited to the portion being leased and excluding common
access drives and common parking areas; or
         (c)   A verified agent of one of those listed above (such as a
licensed sign contractor).
      5.   Applications And Procedural Requirements: Applications for permits
required by the provisions of this Chapter shall be made to the Community
Development Department on forms provided by the City, shall be accompanied by a
permit fee adopted by the City Council by resolution and shall contain the
following information:
         (a)   The name, address and telephone number of the owner of the
property;
         (b)   The name, address and telephone number of the applicant (sign
owner);
         (c)   The name, address and telephone number of the sign contractor;
and
         (d)   The location of the building, structure or lot where the sign
will be placed; and
         (e)   Other information required by the Community Development
Department to show full compliance with the provisions of this Chapter and all
other laws and ordinances of the City.
      6.   Approval Of Sign Reviews: The Community Development Department shall
approve, conditionally approve, or deny a sign application based on the
following criteria:
         (a)   The application has been properly made;
         (b)   The sign complies with the laws of the City;
         (c)   The permit fee has been paid; and
         (d)   The sign's location and copy does not create a potential
visibility or safety hazard; and
         (e)   The sign does not require a Conditional Use Permit as required
by this Chapter.
      7.   Referral To Planning Commission Or City Council: The Community
Development Director, at their discretion, may refer any application for a
commercial sign to the Planning Commission, which may approve, conditionally
approve, or deny the sign application in accordance with the criteria listed
above. Non-commercial signs may be referred, at the Community Development
Director's discretion, to the City Council for approval, conditional approval,
or denial of the sign application in accordance with the criteria listed above.
      8.   Action On Application: If a sign application is denied, the
Community Development Department shall provide written notice of the denial to
the applicant after the decision is rendered. The applicant may appeal any
decision of the Community Development Director to the Planning Commission or
City Council, as appropriate, in compliance with this Chapter. If a sign is
approved, the applicant shall obtain any required permits from the Building
Division prior to installing, altering, or relocating any sign.
      9.   Appeals:
         (a)   The applicant or any aggrieved person may appeal a decision, on
an item pertaining to this Chapter made by the Community Development Director
to the Planning Commission for commercial signs, or to the City Council for
non-commercial signs. Such an appeal shall be filed in writing, in the format
prescribed by the Community Development Director, not later than ten (10)
calendar days after a decision has been rendered. The appeal shall be
accompanied by the fee required for an "Appeal of a Staff Decision, Minor" and
any pertinent data the appellant wishes to submit. The appeal shall be
scheduled for the next regular Planning Commission or City Council meeting,
respectively, provided the meeting is at least fourteen (14) days from the date
of the appeal. If the next meeting is sooner than fourteen (14) days, the
appeal shall be scheduled for the meeting following the next scheduled meeting.
         (b)   The applicant or any aggrieved person may appeal a decision, on
an item pertaining to this Chapter, made by the Planning Commission to the City
Council. Such an appeal shall be filed in writing, in the format prescribed by
the Community Development Director, not later than ten (10) calendar days after
a decision has been rendered by the Planning Commission. The appeal shall be
accompanied by the fee required for an "Appeal of a Planning Commission
Decision" and any pertinent data the appellant wishes to submit. The appeal
shall be scheduled for the next regular City Council meeting provided the
meeting is at least fourteen (14) calendar days from the date of appeal. If the
next meeting is sooner than fourteen (14) days, the appeal shall be scheduled
for the meeting following the next scheduled meeting.
   (G)   Sign Area Measurement:
      1.   Allowable Sign Square Footage: All signs are measured based on every
linear foot of structure frontage to determine the maximum allowable sign
square footage, unless noted otherwise in Section I (Signs Allowed by Zone).
      2.   Sign Area Calculations: Sign area calculation is based on every
linear foot of structure frontage, to a specified amount of sign square
footage. For example, if a structure has one hundred feet (100') of linear
frontage, parallel to a public street or public right-of-way and one foot (1')
of sign area is allowed for every foot of linear frontage the maximum allowable
sign square footage would be one hundred (100) square feet. The sign area
calculations described above do not include sign area from secondary signage
that is not visible from the right-of-way.
      3.   Three-Dimensional Signs: Three dimensional objects, such as globes
and cylinders, shall have their area determined by calculating the surface area
of the object which will be used for signage. Cubes and objects with signage on
flat surfaces shall use the area of the flat surfaces. If the object is less
than two feet (2') in width or diameter, then the area shall be calculated as
if the object were flat.
      4.   Surface Area Calculation: The sign surface area shall be calculated
by measuring square footage based on the height and length of sign copy (sign
text) on all sign faces. See Figure 3-3 (Sign Area Measurements).
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b007bab647711b625891d40e4fcc5f1077aea100/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3925.jpg]
Figure 3-3
   (H)   Enforcement:
      1.   Permanent Signs: Upon determination of a violation of the provisions
of this Chapter, the Community Development Department shall contact the
property owner of the parcel in question and request that the illegal sign be
voluntarily abated. The Community Development Department shall provide the
owner with at least three notices not closer than two (2) weeks apart. If after
ninety (90) days no action is taken by the owner, the Community Development
Director may direct the removal of such signs after a resolution is passed by
the City Council declaring the sign a public nuisance. A minimum of ten (10)
days' notice shall be given to all persons owning property described in the
resolution prior to its adoption in accordance with Chapter 2.6 of the
California Business and Professions Code. After a sign's removal the Community
Development Department shall send notification in writing to the owner of the
property stating the location where the sign is being held and that the sign
will be destroyed if not claimed by the owner within ten (10) days of such
notice. If the sign is not claimed within the allotted time, the Director shall
have the sign destroyed or disposed of. The Community Development Department
shall not release any confiscated signs without a payment by the owner to
reimburse the City for any cost incurred for the abatement and storage of the
sign. If the sign is not claimed the owner shall be responsible for the cost of
abatement, storage and disposal of the sign and the City shall bill the owner
to recover the costs incurred by the City.
      2.   Temporary Signs: Upon determination of a violation of the provisions
of this Chapter regulating temporary signs, the Community Development
Department shall contact the property owner of the parcel in question and
request the illegal sign be voluntarily abated. If the signs are not removed
from private property within twenty four (24) hours, the Community Development
Director shall direct the removal of such signs. Signs on public property may
be removed immediately and without notice. The Community Development Department
shall send notification in writing to the owner of such sign, if the owner can
be determined, stating the location where the sign is being held and that the
sign will be destroyed if not claimed by the owner within ten (10) days of such
notice. If the sign is not claimed within the allotted time, the Director shall
have the sign destroyed or disposed of. The Community Development Department
shall not release any confiscated signs without payment by the owner to
reimburse the City for any costs incurred for the abatement and storage of the
sign. If the sign is not claimed the owner shall be responsible for the cost of
abatement, storage and disposal of the sign and the City shall bill the owner
to recover the costs incurred by the City.
   (I)   Signs Allowed By Zone:
      1.   Residential Zone Signs:
         (a)   Single-Family And Subdivision:
            (1)   Model Home Signs: Each model home may have one model home
sign not to exceed six square feet and not to exceed five feet in height. In
addition, each model home may have one flag per twenty feet (20') of street
frontage. Such flags shall not exceed fifteen (15) square feet in area and
shall be mounted no more than eighteen feet (18') in height to the top of the
flag. Model home signs may be illuminated; however, the flags shall not be
illuminated.
            (2)   Subdivision Sales Signs: Each single-family home tract shall
be allowed one sales sign per major arterial or one sales sign on the primary
frontage if not adjacent to a major arterial. Subdivision sales signs shall not
exceed sixty four (64) square feet in area and shall not exceed a height of
eight feet (8'). Subdivision sales sign may be illuminated.
            (3)   Subdivision Entry Signs: Each single-family subdivision is
allowed one permanent entry sign for each side of the street at each entrance
adjacent to a major arterial or its primary frontage if not adjacent to a major
arterial. Subdivision entry signs shall not exceed forty (40) square feet or a
height of six feet (6'). Subdivision entry signs shall be placed in a
landscaped bed with minimum of sixteen (16) square feet of vegetation.
         (b)   Multi-Family: Each multi-family complex is allowed one permanent
identification sign per two hundred fifty feet (250') of street frontage or
fraction thereof. Identification signs shall not exceed forty (40) square feet
or a height of six feet (6').
         (c)   Mobile Home Parks. Each mobile home park is allowed one
permanent identification sign per two hundred fifty feet (250') of street
frontage or fraction thereof. Identification signs shall not exceed forty (40)
square feet or a height of six feet (6'). All identification shall be
constructed of masonry or other durable materials and integrated into walls or
fences. Landscaping and other features are encouraged to accentuate the sign.
      2.   Commercial Zone Signs:
         (a)   Single Tenant Commercial And Office Building Not Part Of A
Multi-Tenant Development:
            (1)   Freestanding Signs: Single tenant commercial or office
buildings not part of a shopping or office development shall be allowed the
following freestanding signs based on the developed portion of the site:
               A.   Sites Less Than Five (5) Acres: One freestanding sign per
two hundred fifty feet (250') of street frontage or fraction thereof. The sign
face area shall not exceed sixty (60) square feet and the overall sign height
shall not exceed twenty feet (20'). Sign area shall not be exchanged between
signs.
               B.   Sites Five (5) Acres Or Greater: One freestanding sign per
two hundred fifty feet (250') of street frontage or fraction thereof. The sign
face area shall not exceed one hundred (100) square feet and the overall sign
height shall not exceed twenty feet (20'). Sign area shall not be exchanged
between signs.
            (2)   Wall Signs: Each single tenant retail or office building not
part of a shopping or office center shall be allowed two (2) square feet of
sign area per linear foot of building frontage adjacent to a street, parking
area or access drive. Sign area shall not be exchanged between walls.
         (b)   Multi-Tenant Commercial And Office Developments:
            (1)   Required Sign Program: All multi-tenant shopping or office
developments shall submit a sign program to the Community Development
Department for review and approval.
               A.   Freestanding Signs: Each commercial or office development
is allowed one freestanding sign per two hundred fifty feet (250') of street
frontage or fraction thereof. The sign face area shall not exceed one hundred
(100) square feet and the overall sign height shall not exceed twenty feet
(20'). Sign area shall not be exchanged between signs.
                  i.   Commercial and office developments between five (5) and
twelve (12) acres, inclusive, in size shall be allowed one freestanding sign
per street frontage with a sign face area of one hundred fifty (150) square
feet and a maximum overall sign height of twenty feet (20'). These freestanding
signs will take the place of one of the smaller permitted freestanding signs on
a one for one basis.
                  ii.   Commercial and office developments greater than twelve
(12) acres in size shall be allowed one freestanding sign per street frontage
with a sign face area of two hundred (200) square feet and a maximum overall
sign height of twenty feet (20'). These freestanding signs will take the place
of one of the smaller permitted freestanding signs on a one for one basis.
               B.   Wall Signs: Each tenant in a shopping or office center
shall be permitted two square feet of sign area per linear foot of building
frontage, if that tenant's shop or office area is adjacent to a street, alley,
parking area or access drive. Sign area shall not be exchanged between walls or
tenants.
               C.   Time And Temperature Signs: A Conditional Use Permit shall
be required for all time and temperature signs. Time and temperature signs
shall not exceed eighteen (18) square feet in area. The sign area shall be
counted against the permitted sign area for the type of mounting on which it is
placed. Conditional Use Permits shall be applied for and processed in
compliance with Chapter 16 of this Zoning Ordinance.
               D.   Electronic Reader Board Signs: A Conditional Use Permit
shall be required for all electronic reader boards. Electronic reader boards
shall not exceed eight hundred (800) square feet in area and shall not be
mounted at a height of more than seventy five feet (75'). The sign area of an
electronic reader board shall not be counted against other permitted signage
and may be combined with other allowed signage. Conditional Use Permits shall
be applied for and processed in compliance with Chapter 16 of this Zoning
Ordinance. Electronic reader boards shall not contain any display or
illumination which is in motion or appears to be in motion or changes in
intensity or exposes its message for less than four (4) seconds. The interval
between messages shall not be less than one second.
               E.   Freeway-Oriented Signs:
                  i.   Applicability: Any parcel within six hundred feet (600')
of the Highway 99 right of way.
                  ii.   Design Standards.
                  iii.   No freeway-oriented sign shall be greater than seventy
five feet (75') in height to the top of the sign.
                  iv.   The sign face area shall not exceed two hundred (200)
square feet.
                  v.   A single pole shall be used for support.
                  vi.   Placement: Freeway-oriented signs shall be setback a
minimum of ten feet (10') from Highway 99 to the nearest portion of the sign
and shall be placed in the rear forty percent (40%) of the parcel.
                  vii.   Site Plan Review: All freeway-oriented signs shall
require a Site Plan Review. Site Plan Review applications shall be applied for
and processed in compliance with this Zoning Ordinance.
               F.   Canopy Signs: Advertising on decorative canopies and
awnings is permitted. Advertising on canopies and awnings shall count against
the allowable wall signage allowed for the wall on which it is attached.
               G.   Under-Canopy Signs: Under-canopy signs are allowed for any
use which has at least a five-foot (5') wide covered walkway. One under canopy
sign per covered entrance is allowed. Under-canopy signs shall not exceed six
square feet with a maximum width of three feet (3') and shall have a minimum
height clearance of eight feet.
               H.   On-site Directional Signage
                  i.   Directional signs shall not be counted against allowable
sign area, unless the signs include business logo, name, or advertising. If a
business logo, name, or advertising is a component of a directional sign, then
the area of the sign devoted to the logo, name, or advertising will be counted
toward the allowable sign square footage.
                  ii.   If the directional sign is located within the sight
distance triangle of any driveway or intersection, it shall not exceed three
feet (3') in height.
                  iii.   Directional signs shall not exceed six (6) square feet
of sign area.
                  iv.   External or internal illumination is permitted.
               I.   Directory Signage:
                  i.   Directory signs shall not be counted in the allowable
sign area based on frontage, unless the business logo, name, or advertising is
used. If a logo is a component of a directory sign, then the square footage of
the portion of the sign that is advertising the specific establishment will be
counted toward the total allowable square footage of sign area.
                  ii.   Directory signs shall not exceed sixteen (16) square
feet of sign area.
                  iii.   Directory signs shall not exceed six feet (6') in
height.
                  iv.   If the directory sign is located within the sight
distance triangle of any driveway or intersection, it shall not exceed three
feet (3') in height.
                  v.   External or internal illumination is allowed, except
that downward lighting is prohibited.
               J.   Freestanding Drive-Thru Menu Boards:
                  i.   Freestanding drive-thru menu and price boards are not
counted against the maximum allowable sign area.
                  ii.   Each menu board shall not exceed twenty (20) square
feet in area.
                  iii.   The total aggregate square footage of all menu boards
does not exceed seventy five (75) square feet.
                  iv.   Freestanding drive-thru menu boards shall be located
along the drive-thru lane a minimum of eight feet (8') from the entrance of the
lane.
                  v.   External illumination is prohibited.
      3.   Industrial Zone Signs:
         (a)   Freestanding Signs: Each industrial complex shall be allowed one
freestanding sign per two hundred fifty feet (250') of street frontage or
fraction thereof. The sign face area shall not exceed one hundred (100) square
feet and the overall sign height shall not exceed twenty feet (20'). Sign area
shall not be exchanged between signs.
         (b)   Wall Signs: Each freestanding industrial building shall be
allowed one square foot of sign area per linear foot of building frontage
adjacent to a public street, parking area or access drive. Sign area may not be
exchanged between walls.
   (J)   Limitation On Commercial Storefront Signage:
      1.   Purpose: The purpose of this Section is to protect the health,
safety, and welfare of the citizens of the city of Selma by assisting law
enforcement's efforts to reduce neighborhood blight and increasing economic
vitality through improved aesthetic appeal.
      2.   Definitions: The following words and phrases, whenever used in this
Section, shall have the meanings defined in this Subsection unless the context
clearly requires otherwise:
         (a)   Clear: Transparent, see through in nature.
         (b)   Person: Any natural person, partnership, cooperative
association, corporation, personal representative, receiver, trustee, assignee,
or any other legal entity.
         (c)   Commercial Store: Any business that sells or offers to sell or
exchange, for any form of consideration, products to a consumer.
         (d)   Signs And Signage: Any words, lettering, figures, numerals, or
images, which advertise, promote, or convey information about any business,
product, activity, or interest.
         (e)   Window: Any opening in the wall of a building that is fitted
with glass or other transparent material.
      3.   Exterior Signage Requirements:
         (a)   No more than fifteen percent (15%) of the square footage of each
window and clear door that is visible to the public from a public thoroughfare,
sidewalk, or parking lot of any retail store shall bear signs.
         (b)   The area covered by a sign is calculated using the perimeter of
the sign and includes any clear areas or spaces within the sign, such as the
clear area within a neon sign. For irregularly shaped signs, the area is that
of the smallest rectangle that wholly contains the sign.
         (c)   For purposes of this Section, signs that are not physically
attached to the windows or clear doors but that are visible from the exterior
of the building in the same manner as if they were physically attached to the
windows or clear doors shall constitute a sign.
         (d)   All signs shall be placed and maintained in a manner that
ensures that law enforcement personnel have a clear and unobstructed view of
the interior of the premises, including the area where the cash registers are
maintained, from the exterior public sidewalks, parking lots, or entrance to
the premises. No sign shall be placed on or visible through the bottom one-
third (1/3) of any window.
      4.   Enforcement And Penalty:
         (a)   Violations of this Chapter are hereby declared to be a public
nuisance.
         (b)   In addition to any other remedy available at law, any person who
violates any provision of this section is subject to administrative, criminal,
civil, or other penalties pursuant to title I, chapter 4 of this code.
      5.   Controlling Effect: The provisions of this section apply to any
retail store notwithstanding the provisions of any other section of this code
including, but not limited to, subsection (I)2 (Signs in Commercial Zones) of
this section and limit the area of walls or windows or clear doors that may be
covered by any sign placed on any retail store or establishment.
   (K)   Temporary Signs:
      1.   Sign Permit Required: A Sign Permit shall be required for all
temporary signs and is subject to Director review and approval.
      2.   Allowed Sign Area: Temporary sign areas are not counted under the
maximum allowed sign area.
      3.   Temporary On-Site Signs: The following signs may be allowed as on-
site temporary signs in all zones on a temporary basis:
         (a)   Peddler Signs: Peddlers shall be allowed one two (2) sided
freestanding sign not to exceed six square feet each face. Such signs shall
only be allowed in the parkway portion of a public right-of-way or on private
property with the owners' consent. In no instance shall such signs block or
interfere with any vehicular or pedestrian circulation or create a visibility
hazard. Sign Permits for peddler signs shall be valid for one calendar year
from the date of approval.
         (b)   Construction Project Signs:
            (1)   The address and assessor's parcel number for the property. A
Sign Permit shall be required for any temporary construction project sign. The
permit may be issued at any time on or after issuance of a Building Permit for
the structure in question. The sign permit shall expire six (6) months
following the date on which the permit was issued or upon the completion of
construction, whichever occurs sooner. The sign shall be removed on expiration
of the permit unless, prior to expiration, the permit is renewed on approval of
the Director. The permit renewal shall not be for a period greater than six (6)
months.
            (2)   No more than one sign having an area not exceeding sixteen
(16) square feet shall be permitted on the construction project site. Temporary
construction signs are not allowed for residential subdivisions where temporary
subdivision signs are erected.
         (c)   Banners, Pennants, Nongovernmental Flags, Balloons And Similar
Temporary Signs: The above listed temporary signs are allowed for grand opening
and other special events and commemorative purposes, provided the following
conditions, and all other applicable conditions of this Chapter, are met:
            (1)   The total square footage of all banners, pennants,
nongovernmental flags and other temporary advertising materials shall not
exceed five hundred (500) square feet or 2,500 cubic feet if it is a three (3)
dimensional display.
            (2)   All temporary signs shall be maintained in good repair and
such that it does not create a safety hazard or public nuisance.
            (3)   Temporary noncommercial flags, provided that such flag is not
posted, flown, or hung for any period longer than ten (10) consecutive days per
calendar year and shall be limited to being posted, flown, or hung only at the
Selma Arts Center building. Only one such flag per calendar month shall be
permitted. Approved signs shall not display a message, graphic presentation, or
other image that is obscene as defined by section 311 of the California Penal
Code. Approved signs shall be subject to the standard sign permit fee unless
waived at the discretion of the City Council. If more than one organization
requests a permit for the same calendar month, the permit will be issued to the
organization which submits the permit application first.
   (L)   Murals:
      1.   Purpose: The purpose of this Section is to provide opportunities for
art citywide that will contribute to livable, aesthetically pleasing and
pedestrian friendly streetscapes in accordance with the goals and objectives of
the City's General Plan. Promoting murals of historical or community
significance will assist in educating residents and visitors about the City.
This Section will promote the local economy, tourism and beautification efforts
by establishing standards for murals, their location and design.
      2.   Application Required:
         (a)   Application Submittal: Applications for a Mural Permit shall be
filed with the Community Development Department. Such applications shall
include the following:
            (1)   The address and assessor's parcel number for the property.
Written consent of the property owner or authorized representative.
            (2)   A description of the proposed mural, both in written and
picture/design form, including a size estimate for the mural.
            (3)   Any other information the planning director deems necessary
in describing whether the mural will comply with this section.
         (b)   Application Fee: There shall be no fee for the application for a
mural permit.
         (c)   Location Requirements: Murals may be located on the sides of
buildings and walls on property in any commercial and industrial zone district
(C-1, C-2, C-3, M-1, M-2) within the City.
         (d)   Criteria For Design Of Murals:
            (1)   The subject matter of the mural shall be of historical or
community significance regarding the growth and development of the City of
Selma and the region. A mural may not contain text, registered trademarks,
logos or business advertising unless such items fall within the guidelines of
this section.
            (2)   The paint and materials to be used shall be appropriate for
use in an outdoor locale, for an artistic rendition and shall be of a
permanent, long lasting variety.
            (3)   Mural artists must demonstrate their knowledge by providing
photographs of murals they have painted or by providing evidence of their
experience.
            (4)   To the extent feasible, the mural shall be resistant to acts
of vandalism, such as graffiti.
            (5)   Murals shall be subject to review by the Selma Arts Council
and City Council, or individually designated by the City Manager, every two (2)
years or as needed to determine physical condition and maintenance.
         (e)   Review And Recommendation By The Selma Arts Council: The
Recreation/Community Services Director shall forward the application for a
Mural Permit, with comments, to the Selma arts council. The arts council shall
review and recommend, recommend with modifications, or recommend denial of the
mural permit to the City Council as submitted according to the criteria set
forth in this section. A mural application shall otherwise be processed in
accordance with section
11-16-15 of this title as an Administrative Conditional Use Permit, subject to
recommendation of the Selma Arts Council and approval by City Council.
   (M)   Billboards:
      1.   General Provisions:
         (a)   No billboard shall be constructed, relocated, or upgraded within
the City without a Conditional Use Permit, unless otherwise required by this
Chapter. Each application shall be considered separately and individually.
Multiple billboards on separate parcels shall not be combined into a single
application. Multiple billboards on a single legal parcel may be submitted as
one application. Multiple faces on a single billboard shall be submitted as a
single application.
         (b)   Expansion Of Billboard Area Or Addition Of Faces To Existing
Billboards: the vested rights held by existing billboards, whether conforming
or nonconforming to this Chapter, do not allow expansion of billboard area or
addition of billboard faces as a matter of right. No billboard shall have its
area increased or have an additional face added unless all of the following
conditions are met:
            (1)   A Conditional Use Permit is obtained by the applicant;
            (2)   The billboard meets the requirements of this Chapter; and
            (3)   The applicant obtains all required building permits.
         (c)   The City may allow a total of up to twenty four (24) billboards
faces within City limits. Any existing legal nonconforming billboard in place
at the time of the approval of this Section, shall not count towards the total
number of allowed billboard sign faces.
         (d)   Any newly constructed billboard shall not display or incorporate
the City of Selma official seal on the billboard support structure or sign face
area.
         (e)   Any newly constructed billboard will be encouraged to display or
incorporate the phrase "City of Selma" and/or inclusion of a representative
graphic for the City of Selma.
      2.   Billboard Placement:
         (a)   Billboards are only allowed within two hundred feet (200') of
Highway 99 and only in the M-1 and M-2 zone districts.
         (b)   No billboards shall be allowed within five hundred feet (500')
of property zoned or planned for residential uses. Uses across Highway 99 from
a proposed billboard shall not be considered in this requirement.
         (c)   No billboard shall be placed within five hundred feet (500') of
another billboard or a freeway-oriented sign. No billboard with electronic
message display shall be placed within one thousand feet (1,000') of another
billboard with electronic message display. Billboards and freeway-oriented
signs across Highway 99 from a proposed billboard shall not be considered in
this requirement.
      3.   Billboard Design:
         (a)   Notwithstanding any other policy per the Selma Municipal Code,
the total height of the billboard shall not exceed fifty feet (50') to the top
of the structure as measured from either the finished grade under the billboard
or from the freeway, highway, State Route grade, whichever is higher; unless a
variance is requested.
         (b)   The total area of a single sign face shall not exceed six
hundred seventy two (672) square feet.
         (c)   The area shall be measured by the smallest square, rectangle,
triangle, circle, or combination thereof, which will encompass the entire
advertisement and is made based on the height and the length but no the depth
of the advertising surface.
         (d)   A variance may be proposed only to deviate from the prescribed
maximums, specific to size and height. The variance will be approved by
Planning Commission and processed consistently with Chapter 11-22 - Variances
of this Code. Any deviation specific to the overall sign size and height can be
proposed.
         (e)   No billboard shall have more than two (2) sign faces.
         (f)   All billboards shall be supported by a single pole.
         (g)   The minimum height to the bottom of a billboard shall be twenty
feet (20').
         (h)   All visible sign support columns for electronic billboards shall
be concealed with approved architectural embellishments. The materials used in
the sign support embellishments shall be primarily natural stone, brick,
approved masonry panels, stucco, or architectural metal.
         (i)   Billboards may be illuminated provided no lighting is directed
onto adjacent properties or public rights-of-way and, where applicable, and be
reviewed by the California Highway Patrol and/or California Department of
Transportation.
         (j)   Electronic billboards shall have the City of Selma branding on
each side that contains advertising.
      4.   Electronic Message Display And LED Billboard Signs:
         (a)   Electronic message display and LED billboard signs are permitted
but must have clearance or necessary approvals in writing from Caltrans Outdoor
Advertising. Electronic message rotation shall comply with Caltrans safety
standards.
         (b)   The owner of an LED billboard sign shall coordinate with the
local authorities to display, when appropriate, emergency information important
to the traveling public including, but not limited to Amber Alerts, alerts
concerning terrorist attacks or natural disasters. Emergency information
messages shall remain in the advertising rotation according to the protocols of
the agency that issues the information.
         (c)   The owner of an LED billboard sign shall provide to the
Community Development Department twenty four (24) hour contact information for
a person who has the authority and ability to turn off the electronic sign
promptly after a malfunction occurs. Any sign not properly functioning needs to
be repaired to the city's satisfaction within thirty (30) days of a written
notice or be subject to Conditional Use Permit revocation process, with the
possibility of an additional thirty (30) day extension approved by the
Community Development Director or City Manager.
         (d)   Electronic billboards shall meet the same size and height
requirements as standard billboards, as noted above.
      5.   Upgrading Billboard Signs: The Community Development Director or
his/her designee shall have the authority to administratively approve, an
existing billboard that has been previously approved via a Conditional Use
Permit, the issuance of a permit for the upgrade of an existing billboard,
subject to design review, which meets all of the following requirements:
         (a)   The applicant proposes to enhance, improve and modify an
existing legal or legally non-conforming billboard for the purpose of
modernizing and improving the aesthetic appearance of such billboard.
         (b)   Upgrades shall be considered as follows:
            (1)   If fifty percent (50%) or less of the area of a billboard
face is being improved or increased, then it will be considered an upgrade;
and/or
            (2)   If fifty percent (50%) or less of the support structure is
being improved or increased, then it will be considered an upgrade.
         (c)   An upgrade may allow a billboard to become legally conforming if
not already at the time of the proposed upgrade, exempting all billboards
located outside of the geographic location allowed within this Section.
         (d)   All upgrades that exceed the fifty percent (50%) threshold shall
be subject to the approval of a Conditional Use Permit.
         (e)   Any work consisting of less than fifty percent (50%) threshold
will be considered as maintenance of the existing billboard.
      6.   Replacement, Relocation Of Existing Billboard, And Maintenance:
         (a)   Administrative Approval: If a legally conforming billboard no
longer conforms to placement requirements due to property development, road
widening, etc., the billboard shall be relocated on the same property. The
Community Development Director or his/her designee shall have the authority to
administratively approve the issuance of a permit for the relocation of an
existing billboard, subject to design review, which meets all of the following
requirements:
            (1)   The billboard was legally permitted by the City of Selma or
otherwise had legal non-conforming status with the City.
            (2)   The City or another public agency has required the relocation
of the existing billboard, or it is otherwise physically necessary to relocate
the billboard.
            (3)   The sign will be relocated on the same parcel or property it
was originally located.
            (4)   The size of the new or relocated billboard will not exceed
the size, area, height, length, width, shape and number of sides or faces of
the existing billboard. If a modification to these parameters is desired, a
Conditional Use Permit will be required.
            (5)   The relocated billboard will constitute an improvement in the
aesthetic appearance of the original billboard structure.
            (6)   All proposed lighting for the new or relocated billboard
shall be the same or similar to the lighting of the original billboard and, in
any case, the new sign will not utilize display technology which creates a
moving or changing image, of the illusion thereof and the new or relocated sign
may not be electronic or LED unless proposed with a Use Permit.
            (7)   All costs associated with the relocation and installation of
the new or relocated billboard will be borne solely by the billboard owner or
applicant. If a new structure is to be built, it must comply with all
applicable Building Code and safety requirements.
            (8)   Replacement billboards shall comply with all applicable
federal, State, and local regulations.
         (b)   Conditional Use Permit Approval: Replacement billboards shall
also be permitted subject to the provisions of this section when the following
apply:
            (1)   The applicant completely demolishes and relocates an existing
billboard, including a legal nonconforming billboard, to a more suitable
location so as not to conflict with the proposed development or redevelopment
of the property, or other valid reasons and complies with the development
standards of this Chapter of this Code; or
            (2)   The applicant completely demolishes and relocates an existing
billboard, including a legal nonconforming billboard, to a more suitable
location that lessens the overall negative aesthetic impacts on the city and
its residents and complies with the development standards of this Chapter of
this Code; or
            (3)   The applicant has previously removed and completely
demolished one or more billboards and maintains credits for such removal by the
California Department of Transportation pursuant to California Business and
Professions Code Section 5443.5; or
            (4)   The applicant proposes to enhance, improve and modify an
existing billboard already established within a permitted zone for the purpose
of modernizing and improving the aesthetic appearance of such billboard.
         (c)   New billboards which replace existing billboards may feature
electronic copy, subject to the approval of a Conditional Use Permit.
         (d)   Maintenance: All billboards shall be maintained in a safe,
presentable, and good structural condition at all times, including the
replacement of defective parts, painting, repainting, cleaning, ensuring the
sign facing is not dilapidated or faded, and other acts required for the
maintenance of such billboard. Billboards not in conformance with these
standards will be addressed utilizing the Public Nuisance process as detailed
within Chapter 1-21 of this Code.
   (N)   Nonconforming Signs:
      1.   Existing Nonconforming Signs: All nonconforming signs which have
been legally erected prior to the adoption of this Chapter shall be legal
nonconforming signs. It shall be legal for such signs to have their copy
changed, provided they submit a Sign Application to the Community Development
Director for review in compliance with this Chapter. Any physical changes,
modifications, or upgrades of a legal nonconforming sign structure, not related
to normal maintenance activities, shall be required to comply with all
provisions of this Chapter.
      2.   All legal nonconforming signs shall be brought into compliance with
this Chapter 20 years after the adoption of this Chapter by the City Council
pursuant to section 5495 of the Business and Professions Code. Any sign which
is not brought into compliance may at that time be subject to abatement as a
public nuisance. (Ord. 2024-6, 6-17-2024)
11-3-9: MOBILE HOME PARK:
   (A)   Purpose: The purpose of this section is to provide standards for the
development new mobile home parks and maintenance of existing mobile home parks
within the City.
   (B)   Permitted Uses:
      1.   The following table sets forth the permits required for each listed
use category.
         (a)   "P" designates permitted uses.
         (b)   "SPR" designates uses that are permitted after review and
approval of a site plan review. This is considered a non-discretionary permit.
         (c)   "DRA" designates uses that are permitted after review and
approval of a director review and approval process.
         (d)   "CUP" designates uses that are permitted after review and
approval of a conditional use permit.
         (e)   "TUP" designates uses that are permitted after review and
approval of a temporary use permit.
         (f)   "-" designates prohibited uses.
      2.   In cases where a specific land use or activity is not listed as a
permitted use either directly or indirectly, the City Manager or designee may
assign the land use or activity to a classification per Section 11-8-2 (Use
Classifications) are defined in Chapter 8 (Definitions/Use Classifications).
Use classifications not listed in the table or not found to be substantially
similar to the uses below are not permitted. The table also notes special
requirements that apply to various uses. Section numbers in the right-hand
column refer to other Sections of this title.
Table 3-6   Permitted Uses
Use Types  Special Requirements
Table 3-6   Permitted Uses
Use Types                            Special Requirements
Single-Family Residences, Mobile  P    
Home
Accessory Dwelling Unit           P   See Section
                                      11-4-2  (ADUs and Junior ADUs)
Junior Accessory Dwelling Unit    P   See Section
                                      11-4-2  (ADUs and Junior ADUs)
Accessory Structures              P    
Accessory Uses and Buildings1     CUP See Section
                                      11-3-3 (Accessory Structures)
                                      See Section
Home Occupations - Minor & Major  P   11-4-3 (Home Occupations - Minor &
                                      Major)
Child Day Care Home               P   See Section
                                      11-4-4 (Child Care Facilities)
Short-Term RV/Trailer Stay2       CUP  
Display and Sale of Mobile Homes3 CUP  
1.   Approved mobile home park accessory uses, and buildings include
parking, recreation or utility facilities, management offices, and signs.
2.   Rental of spaces for short term use by travel trailers or recreational
vehicles may be permitted in a separate, designated section of a mobile home
park when specifically authorized by a condition of approval of a
conditional use permit for a mobile home park. Short term use shall mean an
individual or cumulative period of occupancy within the mobile home park of
not more than thirty (30) days during any twelve (12) month period. Travel
trailer or recreational vehicle spaces shall not exceed ten percent (10%) of
the total number of mobile home lots in the mobile home park.
3.   Display of uninstalled model mobile homes for offsite sales and for
onsite sales and use may be permitted by conditional use permit; said permit
shall be terminated after one year unless granted an annual extension by the
Planning Commission.
 
   (C)   Development Standards: Development standards for mobile home parks
shall be as follows.
Table 3-7   Development Standards
Development Standard Regulation Comments or Special Requirements
Table 3-7   Development Standards
Development        Regulation                               Comments or Special
Standard                                                    Requirements
                                                            See Additional
                   3,000 square feet per mobile home space  Regulations below
Minimum Lot Size   and 1,500 square feet per travel trailer See Section
                   space                                    11-3-1 (Development
                                                            Standards)
Minimum Park Size  24,000 square feet                       -
Minimum Park       Depth: 120 feet.                         -
Dimensions         Frontage/Width: 120 feet.
Maximum Lot        75%                                      -
Coverage
Maximum Building                                            See Section
Height             35 feet                                  11-3-1 (Development
                                                            Standards)
Maximum Accessory                                           See Section
Building Height    12 feet                                  11-3-1 (Development
                                                            Standards)
                                                            See Section
Height Projections -                                        11-3-1 (Development
                                                            Standards)
                   Front yard: 15 feet                      See Additional
Minimum Yard       Side yard:1                              Regulations below
Setbacks           *   10 feet.                          See Section
                   *   Corner lot, street side: 15 feet: 11-3-1 (Development
                   *   Rear yard: 10 feet.1              Standards)
                   Distance between buildings: 10 feet.     See Section
Building           Distance between mobile homes: 10 feet   11-3-3 (Accessory
Separation         (side), 8 feet (side to rear), and 6     Structures)
                   feet (rear to rear).                      
                                                            See Additional
                                                            Regulations below
Off Street Parking                                         See Section
                                                            11-3-4 (Off Street
                                                            Parking)
Common Open Space                                          See Additional
                                                            Regulations below
1.   If the structure exceeds one story in height (or 15 feet) the side yards
shall be increased by five feet (5') for each additional story (or for each 10
feet over 15-foot height).
 
   (D)   Additional Regulations:
      1.   Site Planning: The minimum mobile home park area per mobile home
shall be three thousand (3,000) square feet. The minimum area per travel
trailer or recreational vehicle shall be one thousand five hundred (1,500)
square feet.
      2.   Property Development Standards: Except as otherwise required by law
or as approved by Conditional Use Permit, the following property development
standards shall regulate the design and improvement of mobile home parks:
         (a)   Each mobile home shall be located on a separate lot with a
minimum width of thirty feet (30') and a minimum lot area of two thousand
(2,000) square feet.
         (b)   Each travel trailer or recreational vehicle shall be parked on a
separate, designated space with a minimum width of twenty-five feet (25') and a
minimum aggregate area of one thousand five hundred (1,500) square feet.
      3.   Off Street Parking:
         (a)   At minimum, one off-street parking space shall be provided for
each mobile home lot and travel trailer or recreational vehicle space.
         (b)   In addition to (A) above, for guest and supplementary resident
parking, one space shall be provided for each two (2) mobile home lots and such
additional space shall be developed in accordance with the standards in Chapter
11-3-4. This requirement shall not apply to travel trailers or recreational
vehicles.
      4.   Accessory Buildings Or Structures: No mobile home accessory building
or structure shall be located closer than three feet (3') from any lot line
which does not border on a driveway, except as follows:
         (a)   A mobile home lot may accommodate either an awning or a carport
on a lot line, provided the awning or carport is constructed of material which
does not support combustion and is not less than three feet (3') from a mobile
home, a mobile home accessory building or structure on an adjacent lot, or any
other building or structure. No part of an awning or carport shall project over
or beyond a lot line.
         (b)   No mobile home accessory structure shall be installed so as to
block emergency exit windows in the bedrooms of mobile homes.
         (c)   A free-standing carport, or a common free-standing carport for
the use of the occupants of the adjacent mobile home lots, may be erected on a
mobile home lot line, provided that such a carport is constructed of material
which does not support combustion, and provided that there is a minimum of
three feet (3') clearance from a mobile home or any other structure on the
adjacent lots. Such free-standing carports may be connected to a mobile home or
other accessory building or structure by an open covered walkway not exceeding
six feet (6') in width.
      5.   Common Open Space: An aggregate area of not less than three hundred
(300) square feet per mobile home lot shall be improved for recreational use of
the occupants of the park, including usable open space and recreation
facilities only. This requirement shall not apply to travel trailers or
recreational vehicles. (Ord. 2024-6, 6-17-2024)
 
CHAPTER 4
STANDARDS FOR SPECIFIC LAND USES AND ACTIVITIES
SECTION:
11-4-1: Purpose And Applicability
11-4-2: ADUs And Junior Accessory Dwelling Units
11-4-3: Home Occupations
11-4-4: Child Care Facilities
11-4-5: Interim School Facilities
11-4-6: Outdoor Dining
11-4-7: Alcoholic Beverage Sales
11-4-8: Adult Businesses
11-4-9: Wireless Telecommunications Facilities
11-4-10: Density Bonus Standards
11-4-11: Adult Use Cannabis
11-4-12: Bed And Breakfast Inn
11-4-1: PURPOSE AND APPLICABILITY:
The purpose of this Chapter is to establish standards for specific uses and
activities that are permitted or conditionally permitted in several or all
Districts. These provisions are supplemental standards and requirements
intended to minimize the impacts of these uses and activities on surrounding
properties and protect the health, safety, and welfare of their occupants and
of the general public. For discretionary projects, the Reviewing Body may
impose additional conditions as may be deemed necessary to achieve these
purposes, secure the objectives of the General Plan and this title, and support
the findings of approval. (Ord. 2024-6, 6-17-2024)
11-4-2: ADUS AND JUNIOR ACCESSORY DWELLING UNITS:
   (A)   Purpose: The purpose of this Section is to provide regulations for the
development of accessory dwelling units and junior accessory dwelling units
through a ministerial process consistent with California Government Code
Sections 65852.2 and 65852.22.
   (B)   Applicability: The regulations established in this Section shall apply
to all accessory dwelling units and junior accessory dwelling units where
allowed in compliance with Chapter 2. Any construction, establishment,
alteration, enlargement, or modification of an accessory dwelling unit shall
comply with the requirements of this Section and the Building Code. An
accessory dwelling unit or junior accessory dwelling unit that conforms to the
standards of this Section shall not be:
      1.   Deemed inconsistent with the General Plan designation and/or zone
for the parcel on which the accessory dwelling unit or junior accessory
dwelling unit is located.
      2.   Deemed to exceed the allowable density for the parcel on which the
accessory dwelling unit or junior accessory dwelling unit is located.
      3.   Considered in the application of any City ordinance, policy, or
program to limit residential growth.
      4.   Required to correct a nonconforming zoning condition. This does not
prevent the City from enforcing compliance with applicable building standards
in compliance with Health and Safety Code Section 17980.12.
   (C)   Where Allowed: Accessory dwelling units and junior accessory dwelling
units are allowed on parcels zoned for single-family or multi-family dwellings
where such parcels include a proposed or existing dwelling.
   (D)   Types: An accessory dwelling unit approved under this Section may be
one of the following types:
      1.   Attached: An accessory dwelling unit that is created in whole or in
part from newly constructed space that is attached to the proposed or existing
primary dwelling, such as through a shared wall, floor, or ceiling.
      2.   Detached: An accessory dwelling unit that is created in whole or in
part from newly constructed space that is detached or separated from the
proposed or existing primary dwelling, including an existing stand-alone garage
converted into an accessory dwelling unit. The detached accessory dwelling unit
shall be located on the same parcel as the proposed or existing primary
dwelling.
      3.   Converted: Is entirely located within the proposed or existing
primary dwelling or accessory structure, including but not limited to attached
garages, storage areas, or similar uses; or an accessory structure including
but not limited to studio, pool house, or other similar structure. Such
conversion may include an expansion of not more than one hundred fifty (150)
square feet beyond the same physical dimensions as the existing structure if
the expansion is for the sole purpose of accommodating ingress and egress to
the converted structure.
      4.   Junior Accessory Dwelling Unit: A junior accessory dwelling unit is
a unit that meets all the following:
         (a)   Is contained entirely within an existing or proposed single-
family dwelling.
         (b)   Is less than five hundred (500) square feet.
         (c)   Has independent exterior access from the primary dwelling but
may also provide internal access.
         (d)   Has sanitation facilities that are either shared with or
separate from those of the primary dwelling. For purposes of providing service
for water, sewer, or power, or for fire or life protection, a JADU shall not be
considered a separate or new dwelling unit.
         (e)   Includes an efficiency kitchen, which includes a cooking
facility with appliances, food preparation counter, and storage cabinets that
are of reasonable size in relation to the size of the junior accessory dwelling
unit.
   (E)   Location And Number:
      1.   Single-Family Dwelling Zones: Accessory dwelling units and junior
accessory dwelling units are allowed in single-family dwelling zones as
follows:
         (a)   Single-Family Dwelling Parcel: Only one attached accessory
dwelling unit or junior accessory dwelling unit shall be allowed on a parcel
with a proposed or existing single-family dwelling on it, where the accessory
dwelling unit or junior accessory dwelling unit:
            (1)   Is either within the space of a proposed single-family
dwelling, within the existing space of an existing single-family dwelling, or
within the existing space of an accessory structure, plus up to one hundred
fifty (150) additional square feet if such expansion is for the sole purpose of
accommodating ingress and egress to the converted structure;
            (2)   May be located either in the front or rear half of the
parcel, located outside of the minimum required setbacks for each;
            (3)   On a reverse corner parcel, an ADU or JADU shall not be
located nearer to the street side parcel line of such corner parcel than one-
half (½) of the front setback depth required on the key parcel, nor be located
nearer than four feet (4') to the side parcel line of any key parcel;
            (4)   Has exterior access that is independent of that for the
single-family dwelling; and
            (5)   Has side and rear yard setback of three feet (3').
         (b)   Limited Detached: One detached new construction accessory
dwelling unit shall be allowed on a parcel with a proposed or existing single-
family dwelling, in addition to a junior accessory dwelling unit, if it meets
all the following requirements:
            (1)   Is detached from the primary dwelling;
            (2)   Is located on the rear half of the parcel;
            (3)   Is located a minimum of six feet (6') from the existing
single-unit dwelling, as measured between exterior walls;
            (4)   Is eight hundred (800) square feet or smaller in size;
            (5)   Has a peak height above grade of eighteen feet (18') or less;
and
            (6)   Has side and rear setbacks of at least four feet (4').
         (c)   Types And Number Of Units Allowed: The following combination of
accessory dwelling units is allowed on a single-family dwelling parcel:
            (1)   Detached accessory dwelling unit and junior accessory
dwelling unit.
            (2)   Detached accessory dwelling unit and attached accessory
dwelling unit
      2.   Multi-Family Dwelling Zones: Accessory dwelling units are allowed in
multi-family dwelling zones as follows:
         (a)   Converted Spaces Within A Multi-Family Dwelling:
            (1)   Within any multi-family dwelling structure used exclusively
for residential use, portions of such structures that are not used as livable
space may be converted to accessory dwelling units, including but not limited
to storage rooms, boiler rooms, passageways, attics, basements, or garages,
provided that any such space converted to an accessory dwelling unit complies
with minimum State building standards for dwellings. No additions to or
enlargements of the footprint of the existing multiple unit dwelling shall be
permitted to establish or construct ADUs in accordance with this paragraph.
            (2)   At least one accessory dwelling unit shall be allowed within
an existing multi-family dwelling structure as long as the total number of
accessory dwelling units within the structure does not exceed twenty five
percent (25%) of the number of existing units.
         (b)   Limited Attached: Up to two (2) detached accessory dwelling
units shall be allowed on a parcel where a multi-family dwelling structure
exists if each of the detached accessory dwelling units meets all the following
requirements:
            (1)   Has side and rear setbacks of at least four feet (4'); and
            (2)   Is eight hundred (800) square feet or smaller in size.
            (3)   On a reverse corner parcel, an ADU or JADU shall not be
located nearer to the street side parcel line of such corner parcel than one-
half (½) of the front setback depth required on the key parcel, nor be located
nearer than four feet (4') to the side parcel line of any key parcel.
   (F)   Standards Applicable To All Accessory Dwelling Units: The following
standards apply to all accessory dwelling units and junior accessory dwelling
units constructed on or moved to a new parcel and to the remodeling or
rebuilding of existing single-family dwelling or multi-family dwelling
structure to create an accessory dwelling unit.
      1.   Parcel Size And Width: No minimum parcel size or parcel width shall
be required for the construction of an accessory dwelling unit.
      2.   Access: Every accessory dwelling unit shall have direct exterior
access independent of the exterior access of the primary dwelling.
      3.   Fire Sprinklers: Fire sprinklers are required in an accessory
dwelling unit if they are required in the primary dwelling.
      4.   Permanent Foundation:
         (a)   All accessory dwelling units shall be attached to a permanent
foundation.
         (b)   A recreational vehicle, commercial coach, trailer, motor home,
camper, camping trailer, cargo container, or boat shall not be used as an
accessory dwelling unit.
      5.   Nonconforming Conditions: The correction of nonconforming zoning
conditions, building code violations, or unpermitted structures that do not
present a threat to public health and safety and are not affected by the
construction of an accessory dwelling unit is not required in order to
establish an accessory dwelling unit on a parcel with a primary dwelling.
      6.   Design:
         (a)   Accessory dwelling units shall be designed and constructed to
architecturally and aesthetically match the existing dwelling(s) in terms of
exterior materials and colors, building elements, structure mass, and roof
pitch.
         (b)   If the accessory dwelling unit is a manufactured home, the
manufactured home shall be attached on a permanent foundation and shall match
the primary dwelling architectural style, exterior materials and colors, and
roof pitch.
      7.   No Separate Conveyance: An accessory dwelling unit may be rented,
but not sold or otherwise conveyed separately from the parcel and the primary
dwelling.
      8.   Owner-Occupancy Requirement:
         (a)   An ADU is not subject to an owner-occupancy requirement.
         (b)   A JADU is subject to an owner-occupancy requirement, except that
a JADU that is owned by a governmental agency, land trust, or housing
organization is not subject to this requirement. With respect to a JADU that is
subject to an owner-occupancy requirement, a natural person with legal or
equitable title to the property that includes the JADU must reside on the
property as the person's legal domicile and permanent residence.
      9.   Rental Term: No accessory dwelling unit may be rented for a term
shorter than thirty (30) days.
      10.   Impact Fees: No impact fees (including school fees) shall be
charged to an accessory dwelling unit that is less than seven hundred fifty
(750) square feet in size. Any impact fee charged to an accessory dwelling unit
seven hundred fifty (750) square feet or greater shall be charged
proportionately in relation to the square footage of the primary dwelling unit
(e.g. the floor area of the primary dwelling, divided by the floor area of the
accessory dwelling unit, times the typical fee amount charged for a new
dwelling). For the purposes of this Paragraph, impact fees do not include any
connection fee or capacity charge for water or sewer service.
   (G)   Additional Standards Applicable To Attached And Detached Accessory
Dwelling Units: The following standards shall apply only to attached and
detached accessory dwelling units.
      1.   Size:
         (a)   The minimum size of an ADU or JADU is two hundred twenty (220)
square feet of floor area.
         (b)   Detached: May not exceed one thousand two hundred (1,200) square
feet. No more than two (2) bedrooms are allowed.
         (c)   Attached: May not exceed one thousand two hundred (1,200) square
feet. No more than two (2) bedrooms are allowed. An attached accessory dwelling
unit shall not exceed fifty percent (50%) of the floor area of the primary
dwelling.
      2.   Height:
         (a)   Detached ADUs On Single-Family Parcels: A detached ADU that is
on a parcel with a single-family or multi-family dwelling may be a single
story, up to eighteen feet (18') in height.
         (b)   Additional Height To Match Roof Pitch: An applicant may request
an increase in detached ADU height to match the roof pitch of the detached ADU
to that of the primary dwelling. Maximum allowed height not to exceed twenty
feet (20').
         (c)   Attached ADU Maximum Height: Attached ADUs are allowed a maximum
height of twenty five feet (25') high or as high as the primary structure is
allowed to be under the underlying zoning district standards (whichever is
lower).
      3.   Passageways: No passageway, breezeway, or similar connection between
structures on the parcel shall be required in conjunction with the construction
of an accessory dwelling unit.
      4.   Utilities: Attached and detached accessory dwelling units shall have
new, separate utility connections directly between the accessory dwelling unit
and the utility provider.
      5.   Parking:
         (a)   One off-street parking space, which may be unenclosed, is
required for each attached and detached accessory dwelling unit. The parking
requirement shall be in addition to the parking requirement for the primary
dwelling. The parking space may be provided as tandem parking, including on an
existing driveway, where the driveway is a minimum of twenty five feet (25') in
length. No parking shall be permitted in the front yard other than on the paved
driveway. Parking shall not be required for a JADU.
         (b)   When a garage, carport, or covered parking structure providing
required parking for the primary dwelling or dwellings is demolished to allow
for the construction of an accessory dwelling unit or is converted to an
accessory dwelling unit, those parking spaces are not required to be replaced.
         (c)   Additional parking for the accessory dwelling unit is not
required in the following instances:
            (1)   The accessory dwelling unit is located within one-half mile
walking distance of public transit, including transit stations and bus stations
as defined by Government Code Section 65852.2(j)(10).
            (2)   The accessory dwelling is an individually designated historic
resource or is located within an architecturally and historically significant
historic district.
            (3)   The accessory dwelling unit is attached to the existing
primary structure or is a junior accessory dwelling unit.
            (4)   When on-street parking permits are required but not offered
to the occupant of the accessory dwelling unit.
            (5)   When there is a designated car share vehicle parking space
located within one block of the accessory dwelling unit.
      6.   Permits:
         (a)   Ministerial Accessory Dwelling Unit Permit: Prior to
constructing any attached or detached accessory dwelling unit, the property
owner shall obtain a building permit from the City. The City shall issue the
permit within sixty (60) days from the date that the City received a completed
application, unless:
            (1)   The applicant requests a delay, in which case the sixty (60)
day time period is tolled for the period of the requested delay;
            (2)   The City requires corrections to the building permit
application, in which case the sixty (60) day time period is tolled until the
applicant resubmits a corrected application; or
            (3)   The building permit application is submitted with a permit
application to construct a new single-family or multi-family dwelling on the
parcel, in which case the City may delay acting on the building permit
application until the City has acted on the permit application to construct the
new primary dwelling, but the building permit application for the accessory
dwelling unit will be issued in conjunction with the permit application
approval.
         (b)   Application And Processing Fees: The City Council shall
establish a schedule of fees pursuant to Section 11-7-15 for the application
and processing of a building permit for an accessory dwelling unit.
   (H)   Standards Applicable To Converted Accessory Dwelling Units: The
following standards apply only to converted accessory dwelling units:
      1.   Setback: No setback is required for a legally existing structure
that is converted to an accessory dwelling unit.
      2.   Parking: No additional off-street parking is required for the
converted accessory dwelling unit, regardless if a garage, carport, or covered
parking structure is converted into an accessory dwelling unit. If replacement
parking is provided, the replacement parking spaces shall be located in any
configuration on the same parcel as the accessory dwelling unit and may include
but is not limited to covered, uncovered, or tandem parking spaces. Replacement
parking may only occur on driveways leading to a required parking space or in
rear yard on a paved surface, provided such paved area can be easily accessed
via the driveway or an alley. No parking shall be permitted in the front yard
other than on the paved driveway.
      3.   Building Permit: The property owner shall obtain a valid building
permit for the converted accessory dwelling unit, subject to all the standard
application and processing fees and procedures that apply to building permits
generally.
   (I)   Standards Applicable To Junior Accessory Dwelling Units: The following
standards apply only to junior accessory dwelling units.
      1.   Size: The total area of floor space for a junior accessory dwelling
unit shall not exceed five hundred feet (500') and shall not expand the size of
an existing single-family dwelling by more than one hundred fifty (150) square
feet, provided such expansion is solely for the purpose of accommodating
ingress and egress.
      2.   Efficiency Kitchen: A junior accessory dwelling unit shall include
an efficiency kitchen, requiring and limited to the following components:
         (a)   A sink with a maximum waste line drain of one-and-one-half
inches (1½");
         (b)   A cooking facility with appliances which do not require
electrical service greater than one hundred twenty (120) volts or use natural
or propane gas;
         (c)   A food preparation counter or counters that total at least
fifteen (15) square feet in area; and
         (d)   Food storage cabinets that total at least thirty (30) square
feet of shelf space.
      3.   Parking: No additional off-street parking is required for the junior
accessory dwelling unit.
      4.   Permits:
         (a)   Ministerial Junior Accessory Dwelling Unit Permit: The property
owner shall obtain a valid building permit for the junior accessory dwelling
unit, subject to all standard application and processing fees and procedures
that apply to building permit generally. The City shall issue a ministerial
permit within sixty (60) days from the date that the City received a completed
application, unless either:
            (1)   The applicant requests a delay, in which case the sixty (60)
day time period is tolled for the period of the requested delay;
            (2)   The City requires corrections to the building permit
application, in which case the sixty (60) day time period is tolled until the
applicant resubmits a corrected application; or
            (3)   The application to construct a junior accessory dwelling unit
is submitted with a permit application to create a new single-family dwelling
on the parcel. The City may delay acting on the permit application for the
junior accessory dwelling unit until the City acts on the permit application to
construct the new primary dwelling, but the application to construct the junior
accessory dwelling unit will still be considered ministerial without
discretionary review or a hearing.
         (b)   Application And Processing Fees: The City Council shall
establish a schedule of fees pursuant to Section 11-7-15 for the application
and processing of a building permit for a junior accessory dwelling unit.
      5.   Deed Restriction: Junior accessory dwelling units shall be subject
to an owner-occupancy requirement. A person with legal or equitable title to
the property shall reside on the property in either the primary dwelling or
junior accessory dwelling unit as that person's legal domicile and permanent
residence. However, the owner-occupancy requirement of this paragraph does not
apply if the property is entirely owned by a governmental agency, land trust,
or housing organization.
         (a)   Prior to issuance of a building permit for a junior accessory
dwelling unit, a deed restriction shall be recorded against the title of the
property and a copy filed with the Community Development Director. The deed
restriction shall run with the land and bind all future owners. The form of the
deed restriction will be provided by the City and shall provide that:
            (1)   The junior accessory dwelling unit shall not be sold
separately from the primary dwelling, except as may otherwise be permitted by
State law.
            (2)   The junior accessory dwelling unit is restricted to the
approved size and other attributes allowed by this Section.
            (3)   The deed restriction runs with the land and shall be enforced
against future property owners.
         (b)   The deed restriction may be removed if the owner eliminates the
junior accessory dwelling unit, as evidenced by, for example, removal of the
kitchen facilities. To remove the deed restriction, an owner may make a written
request of the Community Development Director, providing evidence that the
junior accessory dwelling unit has in fact been eliminated. The Community
Development Director may then determine whether the evidence supports the claim
that the junior accessory dwelling unit has been eliminated. Appeal may be
taken from the Community Development Director's determination consistent with
Section 11-7-8 (Appeals). If the junior accessory dwelling unit is not entirely
physically removed but is only eliminated by virtue of having a necessary
component of a junior accessory dwelling unit removed, the remaining structure
and improvements shall otherwise comply with all applicable development and
building standards.
         (c)   The deed restriction is enforceable by the Community Development
Director or his or her designee for the benefit of the City. Failure of the
property owner to comply with the deed restriction may result in legal action
against the property owner, and the City is authorized to obtain any remedy
available to it at law or equity, including, but not limited to, obtaining an
injunction enjoining the use of the accessory dwelling unit in violation of the
recorded restrictions or abatement of the illegal unit. (Ord. 2024-6, 6-17-
2024)
11-4-3: HOME OCCUPATIONS:
   (A)   Purpose: The purpose of this chapter is to allow for the conduct of
minor and major home occupations which are either clearly incidental or
secondary to the primary residential use of a dwelling unit but always
compatible with surrounding residential uses. It allows for the gainful
employment in the home by any occupant of a dwelling so long as the enterprise
does not require frequent customer access or have associated characteristics
that would reduce the surrounding residents' enjoyment of their neighborhood.
The standards for minor and major home occupations in this chapter are intended
to ensure compatibility with other permitted uses and with the residential
character of the neighborhood:
      1.   Permit home occupations as an accessory use in a dwelling unit;
      2.   Allow residents to operate small businesses in their homes, under
certain specified standards, conditions, and criteria;
      3.   Allow for "telecommuting" and reduced vehicle use;
      4.   Ensure that home occupations are compatible with, and do not have an
adverse effect on, adjacent and nearby residential properties and uses;
      5.   Ensure that public and private services, such as streets, sewers,
water, or utility systems, are not burdened by the home occupation to the
extent that usage exceeds that normally associated with a residential use; and
      6.   Preserve the livability of residential areas and the general welfare
of the community.
   (B)   Permitted Minor Home Occupation:
      1.   A home occupation is a residential accessory use so located and
conducted that the average neighbor, under normal circumstances, would not be
aware of its existence. An administration fee, state fee and gross receipts fee
(5-1-34: License Fee; Gross Receipts) shall be the only fees associated with a
Minor Home Occupation. A Minor Home Occupation shall comply with the following
minimum standards:
         (a)   A home occupation shall be conducted within a dwelling by an
inhabitant thereof and shall be clearly incidental to the use of the structure
as a dwelling.
         (b)   A home occupation shall not be conducted in an accessory
structure and there shall be no storage of equipment or supplies in an
accessory structure or outside the dwelling.
         (c)   There shall be no external alteration of appearances of the
dwelling in which a home occupation is conducted (relating to the home
occupation).
         (d)   Only a resident of the premises may engage in a home occupation
on the premises. Nonresident partners, employees, or customers are not
permitted to engage in the home occupation on the premises.
         (e)   A home occupation shall not create any radio or television
interference, or noise audible beyond the boundaries of the site.
         (f)   Not more than one truck of not more than one to one and one-half
(1½) ton capacity (may not be a tow truck), and no more than one trailer which
will each individually fit within a standard (ten feet by twenty feet
(10'x20')) parking space or garage.
         (g)   A home occupation shall not create pedestrian, automobile or
truck traffic significantly in excess of the normal amount in the district.
         (h)   A home occupation may not involve the performance of any repair
services on the premises other than small appliances, equipment, or other small
objects which are normally capable of being carried by one person without the
aid of mechanical equipment or devices.
         (i)   Business advertising shall utilize a post office box and not the
residential address.
         (j)   Signs advertising the home occupation are not permitted on the
property. Other advertising shall not include the address of the premises.
         (k)   Sales of products or provision of services shall be delivered
offsite by the occupants of the residence, and no customers shall come to the
site to take delivery of products or receive services at the site.
   (C)   Application Filing, Processing, And Review For Major Home Occupations:
      1.   An application for a home occupation permit shall be filed in
compliance with Chapter
11-6-4 (Zoning Clearances).
      2.   Following receipt of a completed application, the Director or their
designee shall determine that the proposed home occupation is allowed as a
matter of right by this Code and conforms to all the applicable standards
listed in subsection C below, a Zone Clearance may be issued.
      3.   The Director shall, within thirty (30) days, make a determination to
approve or deny a home occupation permit that would be operated.
      4.   A Zoning Clearance to conduct a home occupation at a particular
address is not transferable from one party to another, nor may the type of
business be modified. A new Zoning Clearance shall be obtained for each new
home occupation.
      5.   Appeals shall be subject to section
11-7-8 (Appeals).
      6.   A home occupation permit fee, in compliance with the City's Fee
Schedule, shall be collected when the application for a Major Home Occupation
permit is submitted to the Planning Division.
   (D)   Major Home Occupation Operating Standards: The following criteria must
be complied with to approve and maintain a home occupation:
      1.   The major home occupation shall be conducted entirely within a
dwelling or accessory building except for horticulture activities or creative
activities by artists, which may be conducted outdoors.
      2.   Immediately following the effective date of an approved major home
occupation permit, the applicant shall obtain a business tax certificate.
      3.   A major home occupation shall not be initiated until a current
business tax certificate is obtained in compliance with Section
5-1-16 (License Fee; Home Occupations).
      4.   The major home occupation permit shall be valid only for the person
to whom it is issued and shall be void when that person moves from the dwelling
unit or discontinues the business.
      5.   Only one home occupation (minor or major) may be allowed per
dwelling.
      6.   Up to two (2) employees other than residents of the dwelling unit
shall be allowed to work, gather or congregate on the premises in connection
with a major home occupation, or as otherwise allowed through State law for
babysitters, domestic staff, or cottage food operations as defined in
California Health and Safety Code Section 113758.
      7.   There shall be no use of materials or mechanical equipment not
recognized as being part of normal household or hobby uses.
      8.   Where the person conducting the major home occupation serves as an
agent or intermediary between outside suppliers and outside customers, all
articles, except for samples, shall be received, stored, and sold directly to
customers at an off-premise location(s).
      9.   Activities conducted, and equipment, material or hazardous materials
used shall be identified on the Zoning Conformance Review application and shall
not change the fire safety or occupancy classifications of the premises.
      10.   Sales of goods from the premises shall be limited to the products
of the major home occupation, and no other merchandise or goods shall be sold,
kept, or displayed for the purpose of sale on the premises. Mail order
businesses that do not involve handling of merchandise or storage in the home
are permitted.
      11.   The use shall not generate pedestrian traffic or vehicular traffic
beyond that normal to the zone in which it is located.
      12.   No use shall create or cause blight, hazards, or nuisances due to
noise, dust, vibration, odors, smoke, glare, electrical interference, or other
reasons.
      13.   The major home occupation shall not generate pedestrian or
vehicular traffic beyond that ordinarily generated in the residential district
in which it is located. A maximum of six (6) client visits via appointment is
allowed during any twenty four (24) hour period. Visitation and deliveries
incidental to the major home occupation shall be limited to the hours of seven
o'clock (7:00) A.M. to seven o'clock (7:00) P.M.
      14.   No commercial vehicles may be used for delivery of materials, with
the exception of reasonable courier services, to or from the premises. The
permit holder shall not involve the use of commercial vehicles for delivery of
materials to or from the premises, other than a vehicle not to exceed three-
quarter (3/4) ton, owned by the operator of such major home occupation, which
shall be stored in an entirely enclosed garage. No limousine or other vehicle
for hire used in connection with the home-based business shall be kept on site
or parked in the public right-of-way where the business is located or other
residential road.
      15.   No excessive or unsightly storage of materials or supplies, indoor
or outdoor, for purposes other than those permitted in the zone, are allowed.
      16.   There shall be no signs other than the address and name of any
resident.
      17.   There shall be no outdoor advertising that identifies the major
home occupation.
      18.   Not more than one (1) room in the dwelling shall be employed for
the major home occupation. Garages shall not be used to conduct major home
occupations. Garages or other enclosed accessory structures shall not be used
for major home occupation purposes other than parking, except for the storage
of incidental office supplies where two (2) parking spaces are maintained.
      19.   No building or space outside of the main building shall be used for
major home occupational purposes except for agricultural uses in the R-A
(Residential Agriculture) Zone.
      20.   In no way shall the appearance of the structure be so altered or
the conduct of the occupation within the structure be such that the structure
may be reasonably recognized as serving a non-residential use as determined by
the Community Development Director or designee (e.g., by color, materials or
construction, lighting, signs, sounds or noises, vibrations, heat, glare, etc.)
      21.   Negative impacts that may be felt, heard, or otherwise sensed on
adjoining parcels or public rights-of-way shall not be allowed. There shall be
no use of utilities or community facilities beyond that normal to the use of
the property for residential or agricultural purposes as defined in the zone.
   (E)   Prohibited Home Occupations: The following list presents example
commercial uses that are not subordinate to or compatible with residential
activities, are suitable only in nonresidential zoning districts, and are
therefore prohibited as home occupations:
      1.   Adult or sexually-oriented business;
      2.   Barber or Beauty Shops.
      3.   Businesses which entail the breeding, grooming, harboring, raising,
or training of dogs, cats, or other animals on the premises, to include kennels
and boarding used for these animals;
      4.   Carpentry and cabinetmaking (does not prohibit a normal woodworking
hobby operation);
      5.   Construction business (does not include secondary business offices
where the business has its principal office, staff, and equipment located
elsewhere);
      6.   Dance club/nightclub;
      7.   Dancing schools, exercise, and yoga studios, except one-on-one
training or teaching that does not exceed six (6) clients within twenty four
(24) hours.
      8.   Firearms manufacture, sales, or repair;
      9.   Food preparation other than cottage food operations authorized under
State law (Cal. Gov't Code § 113758);
      10.   Fortune-telling (psychic);
      11.   Furniture refinishing or upholstery;
      12.   Junkyards;
      13.   Landscaping business (does not include secondary business offices
where the business has its principal office, staff, and equipment located
elsewhere);
      14.   Lawn mower and small engine repair;
      15.   Home occupations that become detrimental to the public health,
safety and welfare, or constitute a nuisance; or if the use is found to be in
violation of any law, ordinance, regulation, or statute;
      16.   Massage establishments;
      17.   Medical and dental offices, clinics, and laboratories;
      18.   Mini-storage;
      19.   Plant nursery (excepting agriculturally zoned properties in the A,
R-R or R-A District);
      20.   Retail sales of merchandise stored and/or displayed within the
property;
      21.   Storage of equipment, materials, and other accessories to the
construction and service trades;
      22.   Tattoo studios, to include body piercing and permanent makeup;
      23.   Vehicle repair (body or mechanical), upholstery, automobile
detailing (e.g., washing, waxing, etc.) and painting (this does not prohibit
mobile minor repair or detailing at the customer's location utilizing a
personal, noncommercial vehicle);
      24.   Vehicle sales;
      25.   Welding and machining;
      26.   Yard sales (as a commercial business); and
      27.   Other similar uses determined by the Director not to be subordinate
to or compatible with residential activities.
   (F)   Permit Expiration And Revocation:
      1.   Discontinuance Or cessation:
         (a)   Home occupation permits shall immediately expire upon
discontinuance or cessation of use for a period of ninety (90) days of the home
occupation.
      2.   Revocation Of Permit:
         (a)   The Director may revoke a home occupation permit for
noncompliance with the provisions of this chapter or the conditions set forth
in granting the permit.
         (b)   The revocation shall be effective upon delivery of written
notice to the permittee.
         (c)   The permittee may appeal to the Planning Commission the
revocation within fifteen (15) days of the Director's decision.
         (d)   The Planning Commission's decision may be appealed to the City
Council within fifteen (15) days of the Commission's decision.
         (e)   The appeal shall be in writing setting forth the reasons for the
appeal and be filed, along with associated fees, with the Planning Division.
(Ord. 2024-6, 6-17-2024)
11-4-4: CHILD CARE FACILITIES:
   (A)   Purpose: The purpose of this chapter is to allow for the conduct of
child day care facilities and establish standards for City review in
conformance with State law (HSC 1597.40-44) including limitation on the City's
authority to regulate these facilities. These standards apply in addition to
all other applicable provisions of this Development Code and any requirements
imposed by the California Department of Social Services through its facility
licensing procedures. Licensing by the Department of Social Services is
required for all child day care facilities and evidence of the license shall be
presented to the Planning Department prior to establishing any child day care
facility.
   (B)   Types Of Child Care Facilities:
      1.   Child Care Facility: A facility that provides nonmedical care to
children under eighteen (18) years of age in need of personal services,
supervision, or assistance essential for sustaining the activities of daily
living or for the protection of the individual on less than a twenty four (24)
hour basis. A childcare facility includes, non-profit nursery schools,
preschools, child care centers, employer-sponsored child care centers, family
child care homes, and any other day care facility licensed by the State of
California. Each of these different types of child day care facilities is
subject to different regulations and land use requirements.
      2.   Family Child Care Home: A child day care facility that provides
supervision to children (infant through school age) in the caregiver's own home
for periods of less than twenty four (24) hours per day. Per State law, Family
Child Care Homes are allowed in all residential dwelling types and are not
limited to detached single-family homes. The operation of a family child day
care home constitutes an accessory use of residentially zoned and occupied
properties and does not fundamentally alter the nature of the underlying
residential use.
         (a)   Large Family Child Care Home: A home that provides family day
care for up to fourteen (14) children, inclusive, including children under the
age of ten (10) years who reside at the home in accordance with Health and
Safety Code Section 1597.465, or any successor thereto and shall not require an
entitlement or business license.
         (b)   Small Family Child Care Home: A home that provides family day
care for up to eight (8) children, including children under the age of ten (10)
years who reside at the home in accordance with Health and Safety Code Section
1597.44, or any successor thereto. The use of a single-family residence as a
small family child day care home shall be considered a residential use of
property for the purposes of all local ordinances and shall not require an
entitlement or business license.
   (C)   Minimum Standards For Child Care Facility:
      1.   State And Other Licensing: All Child Care and Early Education
Facilities shall be State licensed and shall be operated according to all
applicable State and local regulations.
      2.   Passenger Loading: A passenger loading plan shall be required in
accordance with Section
11-3-4 subject to the approval of the Director. All loading facilities shall be
provided off-street and within the subject property. The Director may authorize
up to one required on-street passenger loading space along a frontage curb for
certain designated times for Child Care and Early Education Facilities.
      3.   Noise: The facility shall not exceed City noise limits as noise
standards contained in Title VI, Chapter 17, Noise Regulations, of the
Municipal Code.
      4.   Fences And Walls: A six-foot (6') high solid decorative fence or
wall shall be constructed on all property lines, except in the front yard or
within a corner cutoff intersection area. Fences or walls shall provide for
safety with controlled points of entry.
      5.   Organized Outdoor Activities-Hours: If the Child Care and Early
Education Facility is located within or adjacent to a Residential District, or
adjacent to a residential use, organized outdoor activities shall be limited to
the hours of eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. to eight o'clock (8:00) P.M. or sunset,
whichever comes first on weekdays and nine o'clock (9:00) A.M. to eight o'clock
(8:00) P.M. or sunset, whichever comes first on weekends.
      6.   Neighborhood Liaison: All Child Care and Early Education Facilities
shall designate an on-site contact person to serve as a neighborhood liaison to
address any neighborhood concerns related to the Child Care and Early Education
Facility operation.
         (a)   Outdoor Play Area: For Child Care and Early Education
Facilities, outdoor space shall be required for each child older than two (2)
years in compliance with applicable State requirements. This area must be
either owned or leased by the applicant and cannot be shared with other
property owners unless written permission is granted by the other property
owners. This requirement may be waived if the applicant can demonstrate that
there is a public park, school, or other public open area in close proximity to
the facility.
   (D)   Minimum Standards For Family Child Care Homes:
      1.   Fire Clearance: A fire safety clearance approved by Selma Fire
Department is required for Family Child Care Homes.
      2.   State And Other Licensing: All family child care homes shall be
State licensed and operated according to all applicable State and local
regulations.
      3.   Structures: All family child care homes shall conform to all
property development standards of the zoning district in which it is located
unless otherwise provided in this Section.
      4.   Noise: The operation of a large family day care shall comply with
noise standards contained in Title VI, Chapter 17, Noise Regulations, of the
Municipal Code. Noise from the operation of any large family day care may not
exceed that which is customary in residential neighborhoods during daytime
hours. Prolonged and abnormally loud noises shall not be considered customary,
while the periodic sounds of small groups of children at play shall be
considered customary in residential neighborhoods from eight o'clock (8:00)
A.M. until nine o'clock (9:00) P.M.
      5.   Hours Of Operation: All family child care homes shall not be limited
in hours or days of operation.
      6.   On-Site Parking: On-site parking for large family day cares shall
not be required except for that required for the residential building in
accordance with Section
11-3-4 Parking, and Loading.
      7.   Passenger Loading: Curbside loading shall be presumed adequate for
drop-off and pick-up of children. A passenger loading plan shall be required in
accordance with Section
11-3-4 subject to the approval of the Director.
      8.   Setbacks: Large family childcare homes must meet play structure
setback and placement requirements in Section
11-3-3, Accessory Structures.
      9.   Screening Of Outdoor Play Areas: Fences shall comply with Chapter
11-3-6, Fences, Walls, and Hedges.
      10.   Residency: The operator of family day care must be a full-time
resident of the dwelling unit in which the day care is located. (Ord. 2024-6,
6-17-2024)
11-4-5: INTERIM SCHOOL FACILITIES:
   (A)   Purpose: This Chapter is adopted to supplement and implement sections
65970 through 65981 of the Government Code of the State of California in order
to establish a method of providing interim classrooms and related facilities
for school districts having conditions of overcrowding within one or more
attendance areas. All of the requirements of said sections 65970 through 65981
of the Government Code are incorporated by reference and shall apply to school
districts and the City as though expressly set forth herein.
   (B)   Applicability: This chapter applies to all land proposed for
residential development which is owned by any individual, firm, partnership,
joint venture, association, corporation, estate or trust. In addition, it
applies to any land proposed for residential development which is owned by the
United States and any agency of the United States, the state of California and
any agency of the state, a city, and any public district or political
subdivision of the state of California insofar as it is legally possible to
enforce this chapter, or any portion thereof, against such entities.
   (C)   Definitions: The definitions set forth in Section 65973 of the
Government Code of the state of California shall apply throughout this chapter.
In addition, the following words and phrases, as used in this chapter, shall
have the following meanings:
      1.   "Attendance area" means that portion of a school district, within
the city with identifiable boundaries determined by the governing board of a
school district, from which children residing therein would normally be
assigned to attend a specified school in the district.
      2.   "Conditions of overcrowding" means that the total enrollment of a
school, including enrollment from proposed development, exceeds the capacity of
the school as determined by the governing body of the district.
      3.   "Developer" means any person, or any of the other entities mentioned
in subsection
11-4-5(B) of this Chapter, who applies to have property rezoned to a
residential use, applies for a discretionary permit for residential use, or
files a tentative subdivision or parcel map for residential purposes.
      4.   "Dwelling unit" means one or more rooms in a building, mobilehome or
portion thereof, designed, intended to be used, or used for occupancy by one
family for living and sleeping quarters.
      5.   "Mobilehome space" means any space, including each space within a
mobilehome park, designed for parking a mobilehome on a temporary, semi-
permanent or permanent bases.
      6.   "Reasonable methods for mitigating conditions of overcrowding"
include, but are not limited to the following:
         (a)   Agreements between a developer and the affected school district
whereby temporary-use buildings will be leased to the school district for an
interim period, or whereby temporary-use buildings owned by the school district
will be used;
         (b)   The availability of funds, the use of which would not impair the
normal functioning of educational programs;
         (c)   The use of funds which could be made available from the sale of
surplus school district real property and/or personal property;
         (d)   The use of school district property for temporary-use buildings;
         (e)   The use of other schools in the district not having overcrowded
conditions.
      7.   "Residential Development" means a project containing residential
dwellings, including mobile homes, of one or more units or a subdivision of
land for the purpose of constructing one or more residential dwelling units.
   (D)   School Facilities-Findings-Notification: Before a developer may be
required to dedicate land or pay a fee in lieu thereof, pursuant to Sections
65970 through 65978 of the Government Code of the state of California and this
chapter, the governing board of a school district which operates an elementary
or high school within the city shall make the written findings, supported by
clear and convincing evidence, required by Section 65971 of the Government Code
of the state of California and notify the city council of its findings. The
notice to the city council shall contain all of the following:
      1.   The findings required by Section 65971 of the Government Code of the
state of California;
      2.   A summary of the evidence upon which the findings are based;
      3.   The reasonable methods of mitigating conditions of overcrowding
which have been considered by the school district and any determination made
concerning them by the district;
      4.   The precise geographic boundaries of the overcrowded attendance area
or areas;
      5.   Sufficient evidence on the interim classroom and related facilities
needed by the school district and the costs of providing the same so that the
city council can set the fees to be charged to the developer or the applicant
for the building permit.
      6.   A statement that in consideration of the City concurring in the
finding of overcrowding the governing board of the school district covenants
and agrees at its sole cost and expense to defend and hold harmless the City
from all liability, claims, charges, expenses, costs and litigation of
whatsoever kind arising out of this Chapter, its sufficiency, legality, related
findings, fees schedule, implementation, operation, enforcement, collection or
otherwise.
   (E)   Action by City Council: Upon receipt of such notice from a school
district, the city council shall, by resolution, concur in the findings of the
school district or state why it does not concur in such findings.
   (F)   School Facilities-Fees And General Requirements:
      1.   When the city council has concurred in such findings under,
subsection
11-4-5(E) the Council shall not approve an ordinance rezoning property to a
residential use, nor shall the city council, planning commission or city
manager grant a discretionary permit for residential use, nor shall the
planning commission or city council approve a tentative subdivision or parcel
map for residential purposes within such area until the city council has
determined whether the developer shall dedicate real property, pay fees in lieu
thereof, or a combination of both, as a condition of the approval. Such
dedications and fees shall comply fully with all of the requirements of this
chapter and section 65974 of the Government Code of the state of California.
      2.   Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (F)1 of this section,
the City Council may find that there are specific overriding fiscal, economic,
social or environmental factors which in the judgment of the council would
benefit the city and justify issuing such an approval without requiring such a
dedication or payment of fees or, may require the dedication of land in
subdivisions containing more than fifty (50) parcels.
      3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (F)1 above, a builder
of a residential development may exercise the option of providing interim
facilities at his or her expense at a place designated by the school district
in lieu of paying fees or may enter into any other legally binding agreement
with the school district which the school district deems satisfies its needs
including, but not limited to, an agreement where temporary-use buildings will
be leased to the school district or temporary-use buildings owned by the school
district will be used.
      4.   Amount Of Fee Or Land Dedication: The fees payable, or dedication of
land in lieu thereof, by a developer to a school district shall be determined
by resolution of the City Council at or after the time that the Council concurs
in the findings of the school district pursuant to subsection
11-4-5(E) of this Chapter. No dedication of land may be required in
subdivisions containing fifty (50) parcels or less. Any school facilities fees
imposed by resolution and adopted by the Council pursuant to subsection (A) of
this Section shall not exceed the limits set forth in Government Code section
65995.
      5.   Appeals: A right to appeal the imposition of fees to the City
Council shall be available to developers and/or builders of residential
development for those projects which come within the provisions of subsections
(F)2 and (F)3 of this section, who shall be apprised of such right at the time
that fees are imposed in the manner provided by this Section.
      6.   Fee Payment And Land Dedication To Comply With Provisions: Any
dedication of land, or payment of fees in lieu thereof, shall comply fully with
all of the requirements of this Chapter and section 65974 of the Government
Code of the State of California.
   (G)   Exemptions: This section shall not apply to the following types of
projects:
      1.   Senior citizen housing approved, financed and/or subsidized by the
United States Department of Housing and Urban Development, and residential
development restricted to adults only; provided, the developer enters into a
written agreement with the affected school district that the developer will
dedicate land or pay fees in lieu thereof, or a combination of both, when and
if such restrictions cease during a period the school district has overcrowded
conditions within the attendance area in which the development is located.
      2.   Conversion of existing apartment buildings to condominiums or a
community apartment project, except where such apartment buildings were
restricted to "adults only" and said restrictions are removed when the
conversion takes place.
      3.   Alterations, remodeling, renovations or reconstruction of existing
residences which do not result in additional dwelling units.
   (H)   Building Permits: When the city council has determined pursuant to
Section
11-4-5(F) of this title that the developer shall dedicate real property, pay
fees in lieu thereof, or a combination of both, a copy of the determination of
the council shall be sent to the city building inspector. The city building
inspector shall not issue any building permit for construction of a mobile home
park or a residence, nor any permit to relocate a residence, nor any permit to
move in a mobile home, or other such residential dwelling unit which is subject
to the determination by the council unless the applicant provides proof that
the required dedication of land and/or payment of fees to the school district
has been made.
   (I)   Liability And Responsibility Of School District:
      1.   Liability: Notwithstanding anything in this Chapter to the contrary,
no fee or dedication of land may be imposed hereunder unless and until the City
receives a valid and enforceable commitment in writing from the school district
that it shall at its sole cost and expense defend, represent, pay and indemnify
the City from and for any claim, demand and/or litigation in any way arising
out of or relating to this Chapter, its enforcement and operation, the
establishment, the amount of and/or collection of fees established hereunder or
here for.
      2.   Responsibility: It shall be the responsibility of the school
district, at its sole cost and expense, to appear and testify at any hearing,
including any appeal, relating to the imposition of fees or dedication of land.
(Ord. 2024-6, 6-17-2024)
11-4-6: OUTDOOR DINING:
   (A)   Purpose And Intent: The purpose of this Section is to regulate
permanent outdoor dining. The intent of these regulations is to encourage
outdoor dining and seating that is compatible with associated and surrounding
uses and do not obstruct pedestrian or vehicular circulation or create an
unsightly appearance.
   (B)   Permit Requirements:
      1.   All outdoor dining and seating areas subject to the requirements of
this Section shall be allowed as specified in Chapter 2 (Zoning Districts and
Allowable Uses).
         Outdoor Dining and Seating areas are allowed as follows:
         (a)   When Providing Twenty Four (24) Or Fewer Seats: A Site Plan
Review is required; and
         (b)   When Providing Twenty Five (25) Or More Seats: A Conditional Use
Permit is required.
         (c)   When a SPR or CUP is required, in order to approve proposed
outdoor seating, the Decision Body shall make the standard findings required,
as well as all the following additional findings:
         (d)   Allows a continuous pedestrian path of travel in compliance with
State and Federal accessibility regulations that will not obstruct fire,
pedestrian, and wheelchair access.
         (e)   Does not unduly interfere with pedestrian traffic on the
sidewalk.
         (f)   Does not unduly interfere with access of public employees and
utility workers to meters, fire hydrants, or other objects (street hardware) in
the right-of-way.
         (g)   Allows an unobstructed view of traffic devices.
   (C)   General Development Standards: The following developmental standards
shall apply to all Outdoor Dining and Seating Facilities:
      1.   Location: Outdoor dining and seating shall occupy a fixed,
specifically approved location that does not disrupt the normal function of the
site or its circulation and does not encroach upon driveways, emergency
vehicle/fire access lanes, landscaped areas, parking spaces, pedestrian
walkways or pathways, bicycle lanes, seating, enhanced pedestrian amenities
(e.g., waste receptacles and drinking fountains), or any other requirement
listed in the Building Code. Outdoor dining and seating shall not be located
within the public right-of-way, in required parking spaces, in designated
vehicle drive aisles, or within required landscape planter areas except as
allowed in subsection (E) Parklets.
      2.   Hours Of Operation: Except as otherwise provided, hours of operation
for outdoor dining and seating areas shall be consistent with those for the
primary use.
      3.   Signs: No additional business identification or advertising signs
for outdoor dining and seating shall be allowed above the maximum number and
allowable sign area for the corresponding primary use as established in Section
11-3-8 (Signs).
      4.   Maintenance: Outdoor dining and seating areas shall be kept free of
garbage and other debris and shall not encroach into required sidewalk
clearance areas as follows: all outdoor dining and seating areas shall leave a
minimum horizontal clear space of six feet (6') of clear sidewalk space, or
greater if the Director of Public Works determines necessary to protect
pedestrian access to the sidewalk area.
      5.   Quality Of Materials: Any outdoor dining and seating area shall use
high quality materials compatible with surrounding uses and structures. For
example, inexpensive plastic or polypropylene chairs are not compatible with
permanent higher quality surrounding materials and structures. The selected
materials shall be subject to the Community Development Director's approval.
      6.   Distance From Residential Uses: Except as otherwise expressly
allowed in this Zoning Code, no outdoor dining and seating area shall be
located less than one hundred feet (100') from the property line of a
residentially zoned parcel without prior approval of a Director Review and
Approval permit. However, a DPR shall not be required for the following
activities when located less the one hundred foot (100') separation
requirement:
         (a)   Service windows for pedestrians.
         (b)   Outdoor dining and seating incidental to a restaurant or
beverage/food establishment that conforms to all the following criteria:
            (1)   Is separated from residentially zoned property by a
nonresidential building;
            (2)   Does not operate between the hours of ten o'clock (10:00)
P.M. and six o'clock (6:00) A.M.;
            (3)   Can be secured, in order to prevent access during non-
business hours; and
            (4)   Is operated in a manner that does not create a private or
public nuisance.
   (D)   Operational Standards: The following operational standards shall apply
to all Outdoor Dining Areas:
      1.   Permittee To Ensure Maintenance: The permittee shall be responsible
for, and exercise reasonable care in, the inspection, maintenance, and
cleanliness of the area containing the outdoor dining and seating, including
any design requirements hereafter enacted, from the structure frontage to the
curb.
      2.   Permittee To Ensure Compliance: The permittee shall restrict the
outdoor dining and seating to the approved location and ensure compliance with
all applicable laws, including laws against blocking the public right-of-way,
health and safety laws, public cleanliness laws, and laws regulating sale and
public consumption of alcohol.
      3.   Alcoholic Beverage Sales: Areas in which alcoholic beverages are
served shall comply with the standards established by the State Department of
Alcoholic Beverage Control. and by Section 11-4-6 in this Chapter.
      4.   Clean-Up Facilities: Outdoor dining areas, whether part of a single
restaurant or shared by several restaurants, shall provide adequate clean-up
facilities, and associated procedures, in the following manner.
         (a)   Cleaning Schedule: Outdoor dining areas shall be cleaned daily
for removal of litter and food items which constitute a nuisance to public
health and safety; and
         (b)   Waste Receptacles: Outdoor dining areas shall contain waste
receptacles, which shall not be allowed to overflow, for use by the public and/
or restaurant employees.
      5.   Required Parking: Additional parking shall be required for the
outdoor dining and seating area associated with the primary use at a rate of
fifty percent (50%) of the typical parking ratio required under Section 11-3-
4 in this Chapter.
      6.   Entertainment: Outdoor dining and seating areas that provide
dancing, entertainment, or amplified music shall comply with the noise
standards in City's Noise Ordinance (Chapter 17: Noise Regulations).
   (E)   Parklets: Parklets are intended to encourage activation of the public
right-of-way, provide increased business opportunities for businesses and
restaurants and increase opportunities for outdoor dining and other uses. All
rules, regulations and provisions of the Outdoor Dining Standards shall
continue to apply unless superseded by these guidelines.
      1.   Eligibility: Restaurants may apply for the temporary closure and use
of one or more metered or unmetered parking space(s) that are located
immediately in front of their property limits for outdoor dining. Where the
applicant does not own the property in which their restaurant or business is
located, then the property owner's approval is required.
         (a)   Parklets are permitted on streets with speed limits of twenty
five (25) miles per hour or lower. Parklets on streets with speed limits over
twenty five (25) miles per hour will be considered on a case-by-case basis.
      2.   Parklet Location: Parklets will be reviewed to determine whether
their proposed location will interfere with view preservations of historic
buildings and landmarks, public art, and to determine if the architectural
design of the structure(s), and their materials and colors, are compatible with
the scale and character of surrounding development and other improvements on
the site.
         (a)   Parklets may be placed in non-restricted on-street metered and
unmetered parking spaces in commercially zoned areas and may not be placed
within a blue, green, red, yellow, or white painted curb.
         (b)   Parklets may not be located within a minimum of one parking
space (which is approximately twenty feet (20')) from an intersection with a
crossing road. The allowable distance is subject to review by City staff
considering the type of intersection, type of control, crosswalk and other
pavement markings, etc. Parklets may not be located within designated turn
lanes, tapers or bike lanes.
         (c)   Parklets are not permitted in front of, or within fifteen feet
(15') of a fire hydrant or over a fire hydrant shut-off valve. Parklets
constructed with irremovable materials may not be constructed over any utility
access covers. Momentary access must be provided to any City staff or other
public utility company from time to time that have underground conduits running
beneath the Parklet area. Applicants understand and agree that City crew
roadway restriping, resurfacing and utility company access may require the
temporary removal of all, or a portion of the constructed Parklet to provide
access. Accurate reinstatement of the parklet or its components will be the
responsibility of the applicant.
      3.   Parklet Size: A parklet may occupy a maximum of three (3) adjacent
parking spaces. Larger Parklets will be considered on a case-by-case basis for
up-to the length of a business frontage.
         (a)   All parklets are required to include a minimum four feet (4')
setback on either end to buffer the parklet from adjacent on-street parking
spaces and a minimum one foot (1') buffer adjacent to the auto or bike travel
lane. Parallel parking spaces typically range between eighteen to twenty feet
(18'-20') in length. With a standard four foot (4') setback on both ends and a
twenty foot (20') typical parking space length.
         (b)   Parklets may not use any part of an adjacent parking space. In
areas where parking is not striped, the parklet shall not leave an "orphaned"
space that is too small to park a full-sized passenger vehicle.
         (c)   Parklets should be a minimum width of six feet (6') (or the
width of the existing parking lane including the minimum one foot (1') buffer).
Parklets generally entail the conversion of one or more parallel parking
spaces, but may vary according to the site, context, and desired character of
the installation.
      4.   Bollards: Six feet (6') long concrete bollards containing a one-half
inch (1/2") steel sheath that are placed four feet (4') above grade and buried
two feet (2') below grade are to be placed four feet (4') apart from one
another along the perimeter of the parklet and a maximum of two feet (2') away
from any corner.
      5.   Enclosure: The tops of parklet walls shall not be higher than thirty
six inches (36") above the ground however, narrow support pillars or posts may
be built above thirty six inches (36") to support a roof or to mount lighting
fixtures, lighting strings, or speakers, provided the roof is no lower than
seven and one-half feet (7½') high and provided the roof sustains a minimum
wind speed of one hundred ten (110) miles per hour.
      6.   Lighting: Applicants interested in lighting should consider solar-
powered lighting that use a rechargeable battery. Parklets however, may have
lighting fixtures or lighting strings installed on poles with or without a roof
provided they are rated for outdoor use and their power cord is plugged into an
enclosed Ground Fault Circuit Interrupter outlet located on the face or roof of
the building. Running conduits or extension cords along the ground to the
parklet from the building to provide electrical power is prohibited and can be
a tripping hazard.
      7.   Speakers: Parklets may have speakers mounted within them provided
they are rated for outdoor use and their cords are connected in an aerial
fashion to equipment located inside or outside of the building that is owned or
occupied by the Applicant. Alternatively, speakers may be mounted directly upon
the face of the building that is owned or occupied by the Applicant. Running
conduits or speaker wire along the ground to the parklet from any building is
prohibited.
      8.   Reflectivity: Reflective elements/devices are required at the
outside corners of all parklets. Soft-hit posts equipped with reflective
surfaces are a typical solution deployed along the perimeter; however, the City
will consider other reflective elements incorporated into the parklet design to
enhance visibility of the structure including at night.
      9.   Driveways: Parklets located adjacent to driveways must be set back
twenty feet (20') from the outside edge of the driveway apron. The City may
consider shorter separation requirements for smaller driveways.
      10.   Easy Removal: Since parklets are temporary and will be placed atop
critical infrastructure and utilities such as gas lines, sewer and water mains,
they must be designed for easy removal in case emergency access is required. No
parklet component may weigh more than two hundred (200) pounds per square foot.
      11.   Advertising/Signs: With the exception of one menu sandwich board,
advertising, marketing, promotional activities or any other signage is
prohibited in the parklet.
      12.   ADA Compliance: If other areas of the business do not achieve
minimum ADA accessibility requirements, then the parklet design shall be
accessible to the disabled in accordance with ADA standards. Parklet access
shall adhere to the Uniform Building Code and Title 24 (California Building
Standards Code) of the California Code of Regulations and include:
         (a)   This includes the use of slip resistant surface materials,
maximum allowable slopes and other provisions.
         (b)   The ability for wheelchair users to access the parklet.
      13.   Platform Deck: Each parklet requires a platform that is flush with
the curb. Construction drawings must be submitted for the seating deck so that
the City can review the structural base for the parklet.
      14.   Maintenance: The parklet is required to be well maintained and be
in good condition. Parklet owners are required to develop a maintenance plan
for keeping the parklet free from debris, grime, and graffiti, and to ensure
any plants remain in good health and not grown in a manner that would obstruct
visibility of the adjacent travel lane and/or intersections.
         (a)   Restaurants are required to sweep the sidewalk and roadway area
immediately surrounding the parklet and to keep it litter-free as City street
sweepers are unable to do so.
         (b)   The area beneath the parklet platform shall be cleaned and
rinsed out at least once a month.
      15.   Change Of Ownership: The Parklet Permit and License Agreement is
non-transferable. If the applicant's business changes ownership or ceases to
operate, the permit will be automatically terminated and the platform,
bollards, wheel stops, etc. shall be removed by the applicant (unless the
applicant is a tenant on the premises and the property owner of these premises
agrees, in writing, to assume the responsibility of removing the parklet if the
new tenant of these premises or new owner of applicant's business does not wish
to use the parklet), and the parking space(s), parking meter(s), bike rack(s),
and any other impacted road elements will be restored. Any new tenant or new
operator of the applicant's business will be required to apply and obtain a new
Street Use Permit and License Agreement from the City.
      16.   Removal: If the applicant decides to no longer use the parklet, or
the permit has expired, the applicant is responsible for removing the parklet
and all related elements and restoring the public right-of-way to its original
condition. Removal and restoration of the parklet area requires an additional
permit, which may be obtained from the Department of Public Works/Engineering
Division. Failure to remove the parklet and/or restore the road will result in
forfeiting the maintenance deposit. Applicants shall reimburse the City for any
costs to remove the parklet and/or restore the road that exceed the amount of
their maintenance deposit.
         (a)   In some instances, such as a street repaving or utility work,
the City may require the applicant to remove their parklet temporarily. The
City or utility will provide adequate notification to permit holders that a
parklet will need to be temporarily removed for repaving, utility, or other
street work. In these situations, you may need to store your parklet off-site
during these construction activities. Parklet removal and reinstallation shall
be performed at the sole cost of the permit holder.
         (b)   Because parklets may be placed atop utilities there may be
instances where the parklet will require immediate removal with little notice
(such as a gas leak, water main break, sewage pipe break, etc.). During these
emergencies, the City or other public utility may remove the parklet with
little or no notice.
      17.   Insurance: The Applicant (Permitee) shall obtain and maintain in
force during the life of the Parklet Permit and License Agreement comprehensive
general liability, automotive, and workers compensation insurance in amounts
and coverage as determined by the City Attorney and specified in the Parklet
Permit and License Agreement. Failure to maintain active insurance policies is
grounds for revocation of the permit. (Ord. 2024-6, 6-17-2024)
11-4-7: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE SALES:
   (A)   Purpose:
      1.   Prevent the overabundance or overconcentration of alcoholic beverage
sales and its consumption to limit the potential for community problems such as
public drunkenness, drunk driving, traffic accidents, violent crime, noise, and
other nuisances. Regulate traditional alcohol outlets, including bars,
restaurants, liquor stores, and supermarkets, as well as new types of alcohol
outlets, to ensure that public health, safety, and welfare are not threatened.
      2.   Establish control measures that will permit the City to review and
approve new alcohol outlets on a case-by-case basis and to condition that
approval based on the specific type of alcohol outlet, neighborhood location,
and potential problems involved.
   (B)   Conditional Use Permit Required:
      1.   No person shall dispense for sale or other consideration, alcoholic
beverages, including beer, wine, malt beverages, and distilled spirits, for on-
site or off-site consumption without first obtaining a conditional use permit,
an Alcohol Exemption Zoning Conformance Permit in accordance with subsection
(D), or is otherwise determined to be exempt after a Zoning Conformance Review
in accordance with subsection (F).
         (a)   This Section shall not apply to retail facilities that sell
alcoholic beverages for off-site consumption, which are equal to or greater
than fifteen thousand (15,000) square feet in area and where the display and
storage areas for alcoholic beverages constitute less than ten percent (10%) of
the floor area of the establishment.
   (C)   Findings For Approval Of Conditional Use Permit:
      1.   The Planning Commission, or the City Council on appeal, may approve
the dispensing, for sale or other consideration, alcoholic beverages, including
beer, wine, malt beverages, and distilled spirits for on-site or off-site
consumption only if, in addition to the required findings for conditional use
permits contained in Section
11-6-7(F), all of the following additional findings listed below can be made in
an affirmative manner:
         (a)   The proposed alcohol sales will not adversely affect the welfare
of neighborhood residents in a significant manner;
         (b)   The proposed alcohol sales will not contribute to an undue
concentration of alcohol outlets in the area;
         (c)   The proposed alcohol sales will not detrimentally affect nearby
neighborhoods, considering the distance of the alcohol outlet to residential
buildings, churches, schools, hospitals, playgrounds, parks, and other existing
alcohol outlets; and
         (d)   The sale of alcohol will not increase traffic congestion or
generate a demand for parking that will adversely affect surrounding businesses
and residents.
   (D)   Alcohol Exemption Permit:
      1.   Limited and full-service restaurants that offer alcoholic beverages
incidental to meal service (License Type 41: On-Sale Bear and Wine-Eating Place
and 47: On-Sale General- Eating Place) shall be exempt from the provisions of
the conditional use permit requirement of subsection (B) of this section if
such a permit is approved in writing by the Director and if the applicant
agrees in writing to comply with all of the following criteria and conditions,
including inspections to confirm adherence to all of the following:
         (a)   The primary use of the premises shall be for sit-down meal
service to patrons;
         (b)   If a counter service area is provided, food service shall be
available at all hours the counter is open for patrons, and the counter area
shall not function as a separate bar area;
         (c)   The primary use of any outdoor dining area shall be for seated
meal service. Patrons who are standing in the outdoor seating area shall not be
served;
         (d)   Window or other signage visible from the public right-of-way
shall not advertise beer or alcohol;
         (e)   Customers shall be permitted to order meals at all times and at
all locations of the establishment where alcohol is being served. The
establishment shall serve food to patrons during all hours the establishment is
open for customers;
         (f)   The establishment shall maintain a kitchen or food-serving area
in which a variety of food is prepared on the premises;
         (g)   Take out service shall be only incidental to the primary sit-
down use;
         (h)   Off-site alcohol sales are only allowed with the purchase of
take-out food and packaged to be consumed at customers residence or other
destination not in the public realm;
         (i)   Except for special events and to go orders, alcohol shall not be
served in any disposable containers such as disposable plastic or paper cups;
         (j)   The operation shall at all times be conducted in a manner not
detrimental to surrounding properties by reason of lights, noise, activities,
or other actions. The operator shall control noisy patrons leaving the
restaurant;
         (k)   The permitted hours of alcoholic beverage service shall be nine
o'clock (9:00) A.M. to eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M. Sunday through Thursday, and
nine o'clock (9:00) A.M. to twelve o'clock (12:00) A.M. Friday and Saturday.
Complete closure with all employees vacated from the building by twelve o'clock
(12:00) A.M. Sunday through Thursday, and one o'clock (1:00) A.M. on Friday and
Saturday. All alcoholic beverages must be removed from the outdoor dining area
no later than ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. Sunday through Thursday and eleven
o'clock (11:00) P.M. Friday and Saturday. No after-hours operation is
permitted;
         (l)   No more than thirty five percent (35%) of total gross revenues
per year shall be from alcohol sales. The operator shall maintain records of
gross revenue sources, which shall be submitted annually to the Planning
Division at the beginning of the calendar year and also available to the City
and the California Department of State Alcoholic Beverage Control (ABC) upon
request;
         (m)   Liquor bottle service shall be prohibited. Bottle service shall
mean the service of any full bottle of liquor, wine, or beer of more than 375
ml, along with glass ware, mixers, garnishes, etc., in which patrons are able
to then make their own drinks or pour their own wine or beer. Wine and beer
bottle service shall not be available to patrons unless full meal service is
provided concurrent with the bottle service;
         (n)   Establishments with amplified music shall be required to comply
with Title VI, Chapter 17, Noise Regulations, of the Selma Municipal Code;
         (o)   Prior to occupancy, a security plan shall be submitted to the
Chief of Police for review and approval. The plan shall address both physical
and operational security issues;
         (p)   Prior to occupancy, the operator shall submit a plan for
approval by the Director regarding employee alcohol awareness training programs
and policies. The plan shall outline a mandatory alcohol-awareness training
program for all employees having contact with the public and shall state
management's policies addressing alcohol consumption and inebriation. The
program shall require all employees having contact with the public to complete
an ABC-sponsored alcohol awareness training program within ninety (90) days of
the effective date of the exemption determination. In the case of new
employees, the employee shall attend the alcohol awareness training within
ninety (90) days of hiring. In the event the ABC no longer sponsors an alcohol
awareness training program, all employees having contact with the public shall
complete an alternative program approved by the Community Development Director.
The operator shall provide the City with an annual report regarding compliance
with this requirement. The operator shall be subject to any future Citywide
alcohol awareness training program affecting similar establishments;
         (q)   Within thirty (30) days from the date of approval of this
exemption, the applicant shall provide a copy of the signed exemption to the
local office of the State ABC;
         (r)   Notices shall be prominently displayed urging patrons to leave
the premises and neighborhood in a quiet, peaceful, and orderly fashion and to
please not litter or block driveways in the neighborhood;
         (s)   Employees of the establishment shall walk a one hundred foot
(100') radius from the facility at some point prior to thirty (30) minutes
after closing and shall pick up and dispose of any discarded beverage
containers and other trash left by patrons; and
         (t)   The exemption shall apply to approved and dated plans, a copy of
which shall be maintained in the files of the Planning Division. Project
development shall be consistent with such plans, except as otherwise specified
in these conditions of approval. Minor amendments to the plans shall be subject
to approval by the Director.
   (E)   Density: The following criteria shall be used to determine the density
of any facilities that sell alcoholic beverages for off-site consumption, under
this section in the City:
      1.   All facilities shall be a minimum of three hundred feet (300') from
any public park and any public or private school.
      2.   All facilities shall be a minimum of five hundred feet (500') in
numbers from any existing non-exempt facility which conducts retail sales of
alcoholic beverages for off-site consumption.
   (F)   Existing Uses: All existing alcohol outlets to which these regulations
are applicable shall be considered legal nonconforming uses in regards to the
Conditional Use Permit or Alcohol Exemption Permit unless any one of the
following occurs:
      1.   The Use Is Expanded Or Modified: The use is discontinued for a
period of six (6) months or longer. The six (6) month period to determine that
a nonconforming alcohol outlet has been discontinued shall commence when the
use ceases and any one of the following occurs:
         (a)   The business license lapses;
         (b)   The site is vacated;
         (c)   The lease is terminated;
         (d)   Utilities are terminated; or
         (e)   A conforming use that meets the applicable requirements of this
Article is lawfully established in the space previously occupied by the
nonconforming alcohol outlet.
            (1)   Cessation of use due to property damage or remodeling shall
not be considered abandonment so long as building permits are active in
accordance with Chapter
4-1-4 of the Municipal Code. However, if the building permit expires before the
use resumes, the six (6) month period under subsection (F)2 shall relate back
and commence with the cessation of use.
      2.   A substantial change in character or mode, which shall include but
is not limited to:
         (a)   A change in operational hours that extends past eleven o'clock
(11:00) P.M. Sunday through Thursday and midnight on Friday and Saturday.
         (b)   A five percent (5%) increase in the floor area of the premises.
         (c)   A ten percent (10%) increase in the shelf area used for the
display of alcoholic beverages.
         (d)   Queuing outside the establishment.
         (e)   Age requirements for entry.
         (f)   Checking identification at the door.
         (g)   Implementing a cover charge.
         (h)   Offering bottle service.
When an existing alcohol outlet with a Conditional Use Permit changes ownership
or undergoes an interior remodel, it shall be subject to Zoning Conformance
review to ensure compliance with the existing CUP or Alcohol Exemption Permit.
(Ord. 2024-6, 6-17-2024)
11-4-8: ADULT BUSINESSES:
   (A)   Purpose And Intent:
      1.   Purpose: The purpose and intent of this Chapter is to regulate adult
oriented businesses in the City which, unless closely regulated, tend to have
serious secondary effects on the community, which effects include, but are not
limited to, the following: depreciation of property values and increase in
vacancies in residential and commercial areas in the vicinity of adult
businesses; interference with residential property owners' enjoyment of their
property when such property is located in the vicinity of adult businesses as a
result of increases in crime, litter, noise and vandalism; higher crime rates
in the vicinity of adult businesses; and blighting conditions such as low-level
maintenance of commercial premises and parking lots, which thereby have a
deleterious effect upon adjacent areas. Special regulation of these businesses
is necessary to prevent these adverse effects and the blighting or degradation
of the neighborhoods in the vicinity of the adult businesses.
      2.   Intent: It is neither the intent nor the effect of this Chapter to
impose limitations or restrictions on the content of any communicative
material. Similarly, it is neither the intent nor the effect of this Chapter to
restrict or deny access by adults to communication materials or to deny access
by the distributors or exhibitors of adult businesses to their intended market.
Nothing in this Chapter is intended to authorize, legalize or permit the
establishment, operation or maintenance of any business, building or use which
violates any City ordinance or any statute of the State regarding public
nuisances, unlawful or indecent exposure, sexual conduct, lewdness or obscene
or harmful matter or the exhibition or public display thereof.
   (B)   Definitions: The following words and phrases shall, for the purposes
of this, be defined as follows, unless it is clearly apparent from the context
that another meaning is intended:
      ADULT ARCADE: An establishment where, for any form of consideration, one
or more still or motion picture projectors, slide projectors or similar
machines, for viewing by five (5) or fewer persons each, are used to show
films, motion pictures, videocassettes, slides or other photographic
reproductions which are characterized by an emphasis upon the depiction or
description of "specified sexual activities" or "specified anatomical areas".
      ADULT BOOKSTORE or ADULT VIDEO STORE: An establishment which has a
regular and substantial portion of its stock-in-trade business in any one or
more of the following: books, magazines, periodicals or other printed matter,
or photographs, films, sculptures, motion pictures, videocassettes, slides or
other visual representations ("adult material") which are characterized by an
emphasis upon the depiction or description of "specified sexual activities" or
"specified anatomical areas".
      ADULT BUSINESS: Any business establishment or concern which as a regular
and substantial course of conduct performs or operates as an adult bookstore,
or adult video store, adult theater, adult motion picture theater, adult
cabaret, adult motel/hotel, adult arcade, or any other business or concern
which as a regular and substantial portion of its business offers to its
patrons products, merchandise, services or entertainment which are
distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on matter depicting, describing
or relating to specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas but
not including those uses or activities, the regulation of which is preempted by
State law. "Adult business" shall also include any establishment which as a
regular and substantial course of conduct provides or allows performers,
models, or employees to appear in any public place dressed only in lingerie.
      ADULT CABARET: A nightclub, restaurant or similar business establishment
which features live performances which are characterized by the exposure of
"specified anatomical areas" or by "specified sexual activities" or films,
motion pictures, videocassettes, slides or other photographic reproductions
which are characterized by an emphasis upon the depiction or description of
"specified sexual activities" or "specified anatomical areas".
      ADULT MOTEL/HOTEL: A hotel or motel or similar business establishment
offering public accommodations for any form of consideration where one or more
of the following conditions exist: a) at least twenty percent (20%) of the
gross receipts of the hotel/motel sales from providing patrons with closed
circuit television transmissions, films, motion pictures, videocassettes,
slides or other photographic reproductions are derived from circuit television
transmissions, films, motion pictures, videocassettes, slides or other
photographic reproductions which are distinguished or characterized by an
emphasis upon the depiction or description of "specified sexual activities" or
"specified anatomical areas"; and/or b) rents, leases, or lets any room for
less than a six (6) hour period, or rents, leases or lets any single room more
than twice in a twenty four (24) hour period.
      ADULT MATERIALS: Any book, magazine, newspaper, video recording, or other
printed or written material or any picture, drawing, photograph, motion
picture, other pictorial representation or any statue or other figure, or any
recording, transcription, or mechanical, chemical, or electrical reproduction
or any other articles, equipment, machines, or materials which are
distinguished or characterized by an emphasis upon matter depicting, describing
or relating to specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas but
not including those uses or activities, the regulation of which is preempted by
State law.
      ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER: A business establishment where, for any
form of consideration, films, motion pictures, videocassettes, slides or
similar photographic reproductions are shown, and in which a substantial
portion of the total presentation time is devoted to the showing of material
which is characterized by an emphasis upon the depiction or description of
"specified sexual activities" or "specified anatomical areas".
      ADULT THEATER: A theater, concert hall, auditorium or similar
establishment which, for any form of consideration, regularly features live
performances which are characterized by the exposure of "specified anatomical
areas" or by "specified sexual activities".
      BAR or TAVERN: A facility primarily devoted to the serving of alcoholic
beverages for consumption by guests on the premises, in which the serving of
food is incidental. "Bar or tavern" includes those facilities located within a
hotel, motel, or other similar transient occupancy establishment.
      CHILD DAYCARE FACILITY: A facility which provides nonmedical care to
children under eighteen (18) years of age in need of personal services,
supervision, or assistance essential for sustaining the activities of daily
living or for the protection of the individual on less than a twenty four (24)
hour basis.
      DISTINGUISHED OR CHARACTERIZED BY AN EMPHASIS UPON: The dominant or
essential theme of the object described by such phrase. For instance, when the
phrase refers to films "which are distinguished or characterized by an emphasis
upon" the depiction or description of specified sexual activities or specified
anatomical areas, the films so described are those whose dominant or
predominant character and theme are the depiction of the enumerated sexual
activities or anatomical areas. When the phrase refers to adult motel or hotel,
the primary purpose of providing patrons with closed circuit television
transmissions, films, computer generated images, motion pictures,
videocassettes, slides or other photographic reproductions must be to provide
adult material to patrons.
      ESTABLISHMENT: Establishment of an adult business includes any of the
following:
         (a)   The opening or commencement of any such business as a new
business; or
         (b)   The conversion of an existing business, whether or not an adult
business, to any of the adult businesses defined herein; or
         (c)   The addition of any of the adult businesses defined herein to
any other existing adult business; or
         (d)   The relocation of any such adult business.
      FIGURE MODEL: Any person who, for any form of consideration, poses in a
modeling studio to be observed, sketched, painted, drawn, sculptured,
photographed or otherwise depicted.
      GROSS RECEIPTS: The total amounts actually received or receivable from
the sale, trade, rental, display or presentation of services, products, adult
material or entertainment which are characterized by an emphasis on matter
depicting, describing, or relating to specified sexual activities or specified
anatomical areas.
      LIQUOR STORE: A commercial establishment devoted primarily to the retail
sale of alcoholic beverages for consumption off-site.
      MINOR: Any natural person under eighteen (18) years of age.
      NIGHTCLUB: Any commercial establishment located in a building, room or
structure that provides entertainment, alcoholic beverages and/or dining.
      OWNER OR PERMIT HOLDER OR PERMITTEE: For purposes of this Chapter, shall
mean any of the following:
         (a)   The sole proprietor of an adult business; or
         (b)   Any general partner of a partnership which owns and operates an
adult business; or
         (c)   The owner of a controlling interest in a corporation which owns
and operates an adult business; or
         (d)   The person designated by the officers of a corporation to be the
permit holder for an adult business owned and operated by the corporation.
      PERSON: Means and includes person(s), firms, corporations, partnerships,
associations, or any other forms of business organization or group(s).
      REGULAR AND SUBSTANTIAL COURSE OF CONDUCT and REGULAR AND SUBSTANTIAL
PORTION: A facility which provides nonmedical care to children under eighteen
(18) years of age in need of personal services, supervision, or assistance
essential for sustaining the activities of daily living or for the protection
of the individual on less than a twenty four (24) hour basis.
         (a)   The area(s) devoted to the display of adult material exceeds
fifteen percent (15%) of the total display area of the business; or
         (b)   A business or concern, including an adult theater, adult
cabaret, and adult motion picture theater, which presents any type of
entertainment distinguished or characterized by an emphasis upon specified
sexual activities or specified anatomical areas, or performers, models or
employees appearing in public nude, seminude, or dressed only in lingerie, on
any two (2) or more separate days within a thirty (30) day period; three (3) or
more separate days within a sixty (60) day period; or four (4) or more separate
days within a one hundred eighty (180) day period; or
         (c)   At least twenty percent (20%) of the gross receipts of the
business, in any three month period, are derived from the sale, trade, rental,
display or presentation of services, products, adult material, or entertainment
which are characterized by an emphasis on matter depicting, describing, or
relating to specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
      RELIGIOUS INSTITUTION OR CHURCH: A structure, which is used primarily for
religious worship and related religious activities.
      SCHOOL: Any childcare facility, or an institution of learning for minors,
whether public or private, which offers instruction in those courses of study
required by the California Education Code or which is maintained pursuant to
standards set by the State Board of Education. This definition includes a
nursery school, kindergarten, elementary school, junior high school, senior
high school or any special institution of education, but it does not include a
vocational or professional institution of higher education, including a
community or junior college, college or university.
      SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS: Includes any of the following:
         (a)   Human genitals, pubic region, buttocks, anus, or female breasts
below a point immediately above the top of the areola; or
         (b)   Human male genitals in a discernibly turgid state even if
completely and opaquely covered.
      SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES: Includes any of the following:
         (a)   The fondling or other erotic touching of human genitals, pubic
region, buttocks, anus or female breasts; or
         (b)   Sex acts, actual or simulated, including intercourse, oral
copulation or sodomy; or
         (c)   Masturbation, actual or simulated; or
         (d)   Excretory functions as part of or in connection with any of the
activities described in subsections (A) through (C) of this definition; or
         (e)   Striptease, or the removal of clothing, or the wearing of
transparent or diaphanous clothing, including models dressed only in lingerie
to the point where specified anatomical areas are totally exposed, partially
exposed or opaquely covered.
      SUBSTANTIAL ENLARGEMENT: The increase in floor area occupied by the
business, by more than 10 percent as the floor area exists on the effective
date of this Chapter.
      TRANSFER OF OWNERSHIP OR CONTROL OF AN ADULT BUSINESS: Shall mean and
include any of the following:
         (a)   The sale, lease or sublease of the business; or
         (b)   The transfer of securities which constitutes a controlling
interest in the business, whether by sale, exchange or similar means; or
         (c)   The establishment of a trust, gift or other similar legal devise
which transfers ownership or control of the business, including the transfer by
bequest or other operation of law upon the death of a person possessing the
ownership or control.
   (C)   Location Requirements: Adult businesses shall be allowed only in the
areas of the City identified on the map attached to Ordinance 99-9 on file in
the City Clerk's office and incorporated herein by reference. In addition, no
adult businesses shall be located:
      1.   Within five hundred feet (500') of any bar, tavern, nightclub,
liquor store or other adult business located either inside or outside of the
City limits;
      2.   Within one thousand feet (1,000') of any existing church, school,
library, park or other recreational facility where minors congregate, nonprofit
youth facilities, including, but not limited to, facilities serving Girl
Scouts, Boy Scouts, or Campfire Girls located either inside or outside of the
City limits;
      3.   Within one thousand feet (1,000') of any property planned for a
park, school, library or other recreational facility where minors congregate
located inside or outside of the City limits;
      4.   Within five hundred feet (500') of any land described by the Land
Use Element of the City General Plan with any residential land use, located
either inside or outside of the City limits.
      5.   Within two hundred fifty feet (250') of any existing restaurant or
grocery store which is likely to be frequented by minors.
As used in this Section, "existing" means at the time the permit application is
submitted. "Planned for", means property designated in the General Plan of the
City for such use, or other official planning documents of the City, or
property owned or leased by Selma for such use. The distances set forth above
shall be measured in a straight line, without regard to intervening structures,
as a radius from the property line of the adult business to the closest
property line of the other use. Adult businesses are prohibited from all areas
of the City except as expressly permitted in this Section.
   (D)   Statement And Records:
      1.   Person(s) required to obtain an adult business license pursuant to
the provisions of this Chapter for any business establishment which provides
products, adult material, merchandise, services or entertainment which is
distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on matter depicting, describing,
or relating to "specified sexual activities" or "specified anatomical areas",
as defined in Section 11-4.8 of this Chapter, shall maintain complete records
which can be segregated with regard to all transactions involving such
products, merchandise, adult material, services or entertainment which are
sufficient to establish the percentage of gross receipts of the business which
is derived from such transactions. Such records shall be maintained for a
period of at least three (3) years control.
      2.   No person required to keep records under this Section shall refuse
to allow authorized representatives of the City to examine said records at
reasonable times and places. The City shall inspect these only in the instance
when there is a dispute as to whether a business is an adult business and needs
to comply with the provisions of this Chapter.
   (E)   Location Requirements: Adult businesses shall be allowed only in the
areas of the City identified on the map attached to Ordinance 99-9 on file in
the City Clerk's office and incorporated herein by reference. In addition, no
adult businesses shall be located: It shall be unlawful for any person to
operate, engage in, conduct or carry on any adult business within the City
unless the person of the adult business first obtains, and continues to
maintain in full force and effect an adult business license pursuant to Section
11-29-9 (Adult Business License Required) of this Chapter, and a conditional
use permit. In addition to the base zoning requirements governing conditional
use permits generally, the following additional requirements shall be satisfied
by adult businesses. Such additional requirements shall be included in any
approved Conditional Use Permit:
      1.   Maximum occupancy load, fire exits, aisles and fire equipment shall
be regulated, designed and provided in accordance with the Selma Fire
Department and building regulations and standards adopted by the City.
      2.   No adult business shall be operated in any manner that permits the
observation of any material depicting, describing or relating to "specified
sexual activities" or "specified anatomical areas" from any public way or from
any location outside the building or area of such establishment. This provision
shall apply to any display, decoration, sign, show window or other opening.
      3.   Lighting shall be required which is designed to illuminate all off-
street parking areas serving such use for the purpose of increasing the
personal safety of store patrons and reducing the incidents of vandalism and
theft. Lighting shall be shown on the required plot plans and shall be reviewed
and approved by the Community Development Department.
      4.   No loudspeakers or sound equipment shall be used by an adult
business or the amplification of sound to a level discernible by the public
beyond the walls of the building in which such use is conducted or which
violates any noise restrictions as may be adopted by the City.
      5.   The building entrance to an adult business shall be clearly and
legibly posted with a notice indicating that minors are precluded from entering
the premises. Said notice shall be constructed and posted to the satisfaction
of the Community Development Director.
      6.   The adult business shall not be located, in whole or in part, within
any portable structure.
      7.   The adult business shall not conduct or sponsor any special events,
promotions, festivals, concerts or similar activities which would increase the
demand for parking spaces beyond the approved number of spaces for the
business.
      8.   The adult business shall not conduct any massage, acupuncture,
figure modeling, tattooing, acupressure or escort services and shall not allow
such activities on the premises.
      9.   Any adult business which allows customers to remain on the premises
while viewing any live, filmed or recorded entertainment, or while using or
consuming the products or service supplied on the premises, shall conform to
the following requirements:
         (a)   At least one security guard shall be on duty outside the
premises, patrolling the grounds and parking areas, at all times while the
business is open. If the occupancy limit of the premises is greater than fifty
(50) persons, an additional security guard shall be on duty inside the
premises. The security guard(s) shall be charged with preventing violations of
law and enforcing compliance by patrons with the requirements of this Chapter,
and notifying the City Police Department and City Community Development
Department of any violations of law observed. Any security guard required by
this subsection shall be uniformed in such manner so as to be readily
identifiable as a security guard by the public and shall be duly licensed as a
security guard as required by applicable provisions of State and/or local law.
No security guard required pursuant to this subsection shall act as a
doorperson, ticket seller, ticket taker, or admittance person while acting as a
security guard hereunder;
      10.   The adult business shall submit the landscaping plan to the
Community Development Director for review and approval. If the adult business
is the sole use on a lot, no planting shall exceed thirty inches (30") height,
except trees with foliage not less than six feet (6') above the ground;
      11.   The adult business shall submit plans to the Community Development
Director for review and approval, for lighting the entire exterior grounds,
including the parking lot;
      12.   The premises within which the adult business is located shall
provide sufficient sound-absorbing insulation so that noise generated inside
said premises shall not be audible anywhere on any adjacent property or public
right of way within any other building or other separate unit within the same
building;
      13.   No exterior door or window on the premises shall be propped or kept
open at any time while the business is open, and any exterior windows shall be
covered with opaque covering at all times. Such opaque covering shall be
subject to approval of the Community Development Director.
      14.   Permanent barriers shall be installed and maintained to screen the
interior of the premises from public view for each door used as an entrance/
exit to the business.
      15.   All indoor areas of the adult business within which patrons are
permitted, except restrooms, shall be open to view at all times.
      16.   Except as specifically provided in this Section, the adult business
shall comply with the zoning, development and design standards applicable to
the zone in which the business is located.
      17.   Adult businesses shall comply with the off-street parking standards
pursuant to Chapter 17 of this Title, except the number of off-street parking
spaces required for adult businesses shall be not less than as follows:
         (a)   Adult arcade, adult bookstore or adult video store, one for each
two hundred (200) square feet of gross floor space
         (b)   Adult cabaret, one for each four seats, and in any case, not
less than one for each fifty (50) square feet used for dancing.
         (c)   Adult hotel/motel, one for each sleeping or dwelling unit.
         (d)   Adult motion picture theater or adult theater, one for each five
(5) seats.
      18.   No adult material shall be displayed in such manner as to be
visible from any location other than within the premises occupied by the adult
business.
      19.   No person under the age of eighteen (18) years shall be permitted
within the premises at any time.
      20.   The adult business shall provide and maintain separate restroom
facilities for male patrons and employees and female patrons and employees.
Male patrons and employees shall be prohibited from using the restroom(s) for
females, and female patrons and employees shall be prohibited from using the
restroom(s) for males, except to carry out duties of repair, maintenance and
cleaning of the restroom facilities. The restrooms shall be free from any adult
material. Restrooms shall not contain television monitors or other motion
picture or video projection, recording or reproduction equipment.
      21.   Except as otherwise required by law for adult motion picture
theaters, and except as provided in subsection (E)19 of this Section with
regard to adult arcades, and subsection (E)20 of this Section with regard to
adult businesses providing live entertainment, all areas of the adult business
accessible to patrons shall be illuminated at least to the extent of twenty
(20) foot-candles, minimally maintained and evenly distributed at ground level.
      22.   All signage shall comply with the sign regulations pursuant to
Chapter 28 of this Title, except the following signs shall be prohibited for
all adult businesses:
         (a)   Animated signs.
         (b)   Illuminated or flashing signs.
         (c)   Revolving signs.
         (d)   Movable signs mounted on trailers, trucks, or similar
conveyance.
         (e)   Murals, paintings, pennants, banners and flags places on the
building.
         (f)   Off-site signs, including freeway-oriented signs.
         (g)   Signs that display a message, graphic representation, or other
image that are obscene as defined in Section 311 of the California Penal Code.
         (h)   Signs that are mounted on or above the roofline of a building.
         (i)   Projecting signs.
         (j)   Signs that are cut, burned, limed, painted, or otherwise marked
on a filed, tree, rock, or other natural feature.
         (k)   Freestanding signs.
         (l)   All signs shall be attached to the wall of the building. The
adult business shall be permitted two (2) square feet of sign area per linear
foot of the front of the building adjacent to a street, parking area or access
drive. The sign area shall be on the front of the building facing the street.
Any parcel within one thousand feet (1,000') of Highway 99 right of way shall
not have a sign that faces the freeway, but may have a sign on the side or back
of the building, subject to the review of the Planning Commission. All sign
designs shall be submitted to, and reviewed and approved by the Planning
Commission. All adult materials and activities shall be concealed from view
from any public right of way, parking lot or neighboring property.
      23.   No adult business shall be open or operating during the hours from
two o'clock (2:00) A.M. to six o'clock (6:00) P.M.
      24.   The following additional requirements shall pertain to adult
arcades, which provide one or more viewing area(s):
         (a)   Upon application for a Conditional Use Permit for an adult
arcade, the application shall be accompanied by a diagram of the premises
showing a plan thereof specifying the location of one or more manager's
stations, the location of all overhead lighting fixtures and designating any
portion of the premises in which patrons will not be permitted. A manager's
station may not exceed thirty two (32) square feet of floor area with no
dimension greater than eight feet (8'). The diagram shall also designate the
place at which the adult business license will be conspicuously posted. A
professionally prepared diagram in the nature of an engineer's or architect's
blueprint shall not be required; however, each diagram shall be oriented to the
north or to some designated street or object and shall be drawn to a designated
scale with marked dimensions sufficient to show the various internal dimensions
of all areas of the interior of the adult arcade to an accuracy of plus or
minus six inches (±6").
         (b)   The application shall be sworn to be true and correct by the
owner under penalty of perjury.
         (c)   No alteration in the configuration or location of a manager's
station(s) may be made without the prior approval of the Planning Commission.
         (d)   It shall be the duty of the owner(s) to ensure that at least one
employee is on duty and situated at each manager's station at all times that
any patron is present inside the adult arcade.
         (e)   The interior of the adult arcade shall be configured in such a
manner that there is an unobstructed view from a manager's station of every
area of the adult arcade to which any patron is permitted access for any
purpose excluding restrooms. If the adult arcade has two (2) or more manager's
stations designated, then the interior of the adult arcade shall be configured
in such a manner that there is an unobstructed view of each area of the adult
arcade to which any patron is permitted access for any purpose, excluding
restrooms, from at least one of the manager's stations. The view required in
this subsection must be by direct line of sight from the manager's station.
         (f)   It shall be the duty of the owner(s) and it shall also be the
duty of all employees present on the adult arcade to ensure that the individual
viewing area specified in subsection (E)24(g) of this Section remains
unobstructed by any doors, walls, persons, merchandise, display racks or other
materials at all times and to ensure that no patron is permitted access to any
area of the adult arcade which has been designated as an area in which patrons
will not be permitted in the application filed pursuant to subsection (E)24(a)
of this Section.
         (g)   No individual viewing area may be occupied by more than one
person at any one time. "Individual viewing area" shall mean a viewing area
designed for occupancy by one person. Individual viewing areas of the adult
arcade shall be operated and maintained without any hole or other opening or
means of direct communication or visual or physical access between the interior
space of two (2) or more individual viewing areas.
         (h)   No individual viewing area shall contain booths, stalls, or
partitioned portions of such individual viewing area used for the viewing of
adult material or other forms of entertainment, having doors, curtains or
portal partitions, unless such individual viewing areas containing booths,
stalls or partitioned portions have at least one side open to the manager's
station and visible to such manager's station. Any booth, stall or partitioned
portion of an individual viewing area authorized under this subsection (E)24(h)
shall be constructed so as to allow twelve inches (12") of open space between
the bottom of the stall or partition and the floor. Such open space shall
remain unobstructed at all times.
         (i)   The adult arcade shall be equipped with overhead lighting
fixtures of sufficient intensity to illuminate every place to which persons are
permitted access but such lighting shall not be of an intensity as to prevent
the viewing of the adult material.
         (j)   It shall be the duty of the owner(s) and it shall also be the
duty of all employees present on the adult arcade to ensure that the
illumination described above is maintained at all times that any patron is
present on the adult arcade.
         (k)   The following additional requirements shall pertain to adult
businesses providing live entertainment depicting specified anatomical areas or
involving specified sexual activities:
            (1)   No person shall perform live entertainment for patrons of an
adult business except upon a stage at least eighteen inches (18") above the
level of the floor which is separated by a distance of at least six feet (6')
from the nearest area occupied by patrons, and no patron shall be permitted
within six feet (6') of the stage while the stage is occupied by an
entertainer. "Entertainer" shall mean any person who is an employee or
independent contractor of the adult business, or any person who, without any
compensation or other form of consideration, performs live entertainment for
patrons of an adult business.
            (2)   The adult business shall provide separate dressing room
facilities for entertainers that are exclusively dedicated to the entertainers'
use.
            (3)   The adult business shall provide an entrance/exit to the
adult arcade for entertainers that is separate from the entrance/exit used by
patrons.
            (4)   The adult business shall provide access for entertainers
between the stage and the dressing rooms that is completely separated from the
patrons. If such separate access is not physically feasible, the adult business
shall provide a minimum three-foot (3') wide walk aisle for entertainers
between the dressing room area and the stage, with a railing, fence or other
barrier separating the patrons and the entertainers capable of (and that
actually results in) preventing any physical contact between patrons and
entertainers.
            (5)   No entertainer, either before, during or after performances,
shall have physical contact with any patron and no patron shall have physical
contact with any entertainer either before, during or after performances by
such entertainer.
            (6)   Fixed rail(s) at least thirty inches (30") in height shall be
maintained establishing the separations between entertainers and patrons
required by this subsection.
            (7)   The adult business shall be equipped with overhead lighting
fixtures of sufficient intensity to illuminate every place to which patrons are
permitted access with an illumination of not less than twenty (20) foot-candles
as measured at the floor level.
            (8)   The foregoing applicable requirements of this Section shall
be deemed conditions of permit approval, and failure to comply with each and
all of such requirements shall be grounds for revocation of the Conditional Use
Permit and the adult business license issued pursuant to this Chapter.
   (F)   Sale; Serving Alcohol And Intoxicated Persons:
      1.   It is unlawful to sell, serve or permit the consumption of alcohol
in a structure occupied by an adult business.
      2.   It is unlawful for any person under the age of eighteen (18) years
or any obviously intoxicated person to enter or remain on the premises of an
adult business at any time. A sign giving notice of this provision shall be
prominently posted at each entrance to the premises of the adult business.
      3.   It is unlawful for any person having responsibility for the
operation of an adult business, to allow any person under the age of eighteen
(18) years to enter or remain on the premises of the business, whether or not
such person having responsibility for the operation of an adult business has
knowledge that the person is under the age of eighteen (18) years; or to allow
any obviously intoxicated person to enter or remain on the premises of the
business. For the purposes of this Section, the licensee of an adult business
license, when present on the premises, and the manager or other person(s) in
charge of the premises, are persons having responsibility for the operation of
the business.
   (G)   Suspension And Revocation Of A Conditional Use Permit: The Planning
Commission may suspend or revoke any conditional use permit if it is found that
any of the following conditions exist in addition to the criteria set forth in
this Chapter:
      1.   The operation conducted by the permittee does not comply with all
applicable laws, including, but not limited to, the City's building, health,
zoning and fire ordinances, the requirements of this Chapter, and the
conditions of approval of the conditional use permit; or
      2.   The approved use has been substantially enlarged without City
approval; that the approved use has been partially or wholly converted to
another adult business without City approval; that the conditional use permit
has not been utilized within six (6) months of its issuance; or
      3.   The adult business license has been suspended, revoked or expired.
   (H)   Adult Business License Required: An applicant for the operation of an
adult business must obtain an adult business license in addition to a
conditional use permit. No adult business license shall be sold, transferred,
or assigned by any license holder, or by operation of law, to any other person,
group, partnership, corporation or any other entity, and any such sale,
transfer or assignment, or attempted sale, transfer, or assignment shall be
deemed to constitute a voluntary surrender of such license, and such license
shall be thereafter null and void. An adult business license held by an
individual in a corporation or partnership is subject to the same rules of
transferability as contained above. Any change in the nature or composition of
the adult business from one type of adult business use to another type of adult
business use shall also render the license null and void. An adult business
license shall be valid only for the exact location specified in the license.
   (I)   Application For Adult Business License: Applicants for such licenses
shall file a written, signed and verified application or renewal application on
a form provided by the Community Development Department. Such application shall
contain:
      1.   If the applicant is an individual, the individual shall state his or
her legal name, permanent and business address, phone number(s) and submit
satisfactory written proof that he or she is at least eighteen (18) years of
age; or
         If the applicant is a partnership, the application shall state the
partnership's complete name, whether it is a general or limited partnership,
and show the name, permanent and business address, and phone number(s) of each
of the partners, except limited partners. A copy of the partnership agreement,
if any, shall also be provided; or
         If the applicant is a corporation, the name shall be exactly as set
forth in its articles of incorporation and the applicant shall show the name,
permanent and business address, and phone number(s) of each of the officers and
directors. The applicant shall also provide the date of incorporation, evidence
that the corporation is in good standing under the laws of California, and the
name of the registered corporate agent and the address of the registered office
for service of process. A copy of the articles of incorporation and bylaws
shall also be provided.
      2.   The address to which notice of action on the application is to be
mailed.
      3.   If the applicant intends to operate the adult business under a name
other than that of the applicant, the applicant shall file the fictitious name
of the adult business and show proof of registration of the fictitious name.
      4.   The applicant's driver's license number, social security number,
and/or his/her State or federally issued tax identification number.
      5.   The location of the proposed adult business, including a legal
description of the property, street address, and telephone number(s) if any,
plus the names and addresses of the owners and lessors of the adult business
site, if any.
      6.   A floor plan showing where the specific entertainment uses are
proposed to be conducted within the building. The floor plan shall include a
sketch or diagram showing the configuration of the premises, including the size
and location of the manager's station, if applicable, the size and location of
video or other view areas, if applicable, and a statement of total floor space
occupied by the business. A professionally prepared diagram in the nature of an
engineer's or architect's blueprint shall not be required. However, each
diagram shall be oriented to the north or to some designated street or object
and shall be drawn to a designated scale with marked dimensions sufficient to
show the various internal dimensions of all areas of the interior of the adult
business to an accuracy of plus or minus six inches (±6").
      7.   A detailed description of the adult business for which the permit is
required, including all information which classifies the business as an adult
business.
      8.   The manner of providing proposed entertainment, including type of
entertainment and the number of persons engaged in the entertainment.
      9.   A statement of the nature and character of applicant's business, if
any, to be carried on in conjunction with such entertainment.
      10.   Proposed hours of operation.
      11.   A certificate and straight-line drawing prepared within thirty (30)
days prior to the application depicting the building and the portion thereof to
be occupied by the adult business; and
         (a)   The property line of any other adult business within five
hundred feet (500') of the property line of the adult business for which a
permit is requested;
         (b)   The property line of any land that carries a Selma General Plan
land use designation containing the words residence or residential within its
title within five hundred feet (500') of the property line of the adult
business for which a permit is requested;
         (c)   The property line of any existing religious institution, school,
library, park, or other recreational facility where minors congregate, or any
planned park or other recreational facility where minors congregate, within one
thousand feet (1,000') of the property line of the adult business for which a
permit is requested.
      12.   A diagram of the off-street parking areas and premises entries of
the adult business showing the location of the lighting system.
      13.   The name or names of the person or persons having the management or
supervision of applicant's business and of any entertainment, including those
persons who will be the operator of an adult business and who are required by
subsection (I) above of this Chapter to obtain an adult business operator
license.
      14.   The names of all employees, independent contractors, or other
persons required by subsection (I) above of this Chapter to obtain an adult
business performer license.
      15.   Whether the applicant or any of the other individuals pursuant to
this Section has had a previous permit under this Chapter or other similar
ordinances from another city or county denied, suspended or revoked, including
the name and location of the adult business for which the permit was denied,
suspended or revoked, as well as the date of the denial, suspension or
revocation, and whether the applicant or any other individuals listed pursuant
to this Section has been a partner in a partnership or an officer, director or
principal stockholder of a corporation whose permit has previously been denied,
suspended or revoked, including the name and location of the adult business for
which the permit was denied, suspended or revoked as well as the date of
denial, suspension or revocation.
      16.   Whether the applicant or any other individual listed pursuant to
this Section holds any other permits and/or licenses for an adult business from
another city or county, and if so, the names and locations of such other
permitted businesses.
      17.   If a person who wishes to operate an adult business is an
individual, he/she must sign the application for a permit as applicant. If a
person who wishes to operate an adult business is a partnership or corporation,
each partner, except limited partners, and each officer and director, must sign
the application for a permit as applicant. All applications for a license or
renewal shall be filed with the City Community Development Department. Each
application shall be accompanied by a nonrefundable fee for filing or renewal
in an amount determined by resolution of the City Council, which fees will be
used to defray the costs of investigation, inspection and processing of such
application. Applicants for a license under this Section shall have a
continuing duty to promptly supplement application information required by this
Section in the event that said information changes in any way from what is
stated on the application. The failure to comply with said continuing duty
within thirty (30) days from the date of such change, by supplementing the
application on file with the City Community Development Director or his/her
designees, shall be grounds for revocation of a license.
   (J)   Investigation Of Application: Upon receipt of an application properly
filed with the Community Development Department and upon payment of the
nonrefundable application fee, the Community Development Department shall
immediately stamp the application as received and shall immediately thereafter
send photocopies of the application to the Selma Police Department and any
other City departments or other agencies responsible for enforcement of health,
fire and building codes and laws. Each department or agency shall promptly
conduct an investigation of the applicant, application and the proposed adult
business in accordance with its responsibilities under law and as set forth in
this Chapter. The Community Development Department shall complete said
investigation within twenty five (25) days of receipt of the application. At
the conclusion of its investigation, each department or agency shall indicate
on the photocopy of the application its approval or disapproval of the
application, date it, sign it, and, in the event it disapproves, state the
reasons therefor. A department or agency shall disapprove an application if it
finds that the proposed adult business will be in violation of any provision of
any statute, code, ordinance, regulation or other law in effect in the City.
After its indication of approval or disapproval, each department or agency
shall immediately return the photocopy of the application to the Community
Development Department.
   (K)   Decision By Community Development Director On Application For License:
The Community Development Director or designee (hereinafter "Director") shall
grant or deny an application for a license within sixty (60) days from the date
of its proper filing. Upon the expiration of the sixtieth day, unless the
applicant requests and is granted a reasonable extension of time, the applicant
shall be permitted to begin operating the business for which the license is
sought, unless and until the Director notifies the applicant of a denial of the
application and states the reason(s) for that denial.
   (L)   Grant Of License:
      1.   The Director shall grant the application unless one or more of the
reasons set forth in subsection (N) below of this Chapter is present.
      2.   The license, if granted, shall state on its face the name of the
person or persons to whom it is granted, the expiration date, and the address
of the adult business. The license shall also indicate that the adult business
whether permitted or not shall be subject to any applicable California Statutes
or City regulations or ordinances consistent therewith. The permit shall be
posted in a conspicuous place at or near the entrance to the adult business so
that it can be easily read at any time.
   (M)   Non-Grant Of License (Denial): The Director shall deny the application
for any of the following reasons:
      1.   The building, structure, equipment and location used by the business
for which a license is required herein do not comply with the requirements and
standards of the health, zoning, fire and safety laws of the State and of the
City; or
The applicant, his or her employee, agent, partner, director, officer,
stockholder or manager has knowingly made any false, misleading or fraudulent
statement of material fact in the application for a license or in any report or
record required to be filed with the Selma Police Department, Fresno County
Sheriffs or other department of the City; or
      2.   The applicant has had any type of adult business license revoked by
any public entity within two (2) years of the date of the application; or
      3.   The applicant has been convicted of a felony or misdemeanor which
offense is classified by the State as an offense involving sexual crimes
against children, sexual abuse, rape, kidnaping, distribution of obscene
material or material harmful to minors, prostitution or pandering, including,
but not necessarily limited to, the violation of any crime requiring
registration under California Penal Code section 290, or any violation of Penal
Code sections 243.4, 261, 261.5, 264.1, 266, 266a through 266k, inclusive, 267,
286, 286.5, 288, 288a, 311 through 311.10, inclusive, 314, 315, 316, or 647; or
      4.   On the date that the business for which a license is required herein
commences, and thereafter, there will be no responsible adult on the premises
to act as manager at all times during which the business is open; or
      5.   A Conditional Use Permit has been denied for the proposed use; or
      6.   An applicant is under eighteen (18) years of age; or
      7.   An applicant, manager, or any agent or employee of the applicant or
manager has been convicted in a court of competent jurisdiction of any crime in
conjunction with or as a result of the operation of an adult business or any
sex- related crime prior to the filing of the application. The fact that a
conviction is being appealed will have no effect on disqualification of the
applicant; or
      8.   The required application fees have not been paid. If the Director
denies the application, he shall notify the applicant of the denial and state
the reason(s) for the denial. If a person applies for a license for a
particular location within a period of twelve (12) months from the date of
denial of a previous application for a license at the location, and there has
not been an intervening change in the circumstances which could reasonably be
expected to lead to a different decision regarding the former reasons for
denial, the application shall be denied.
   (N)   Inspection: An applicant or licensee shall permit representatives of
the Selma Police Department, Fresno County Sheriff's Department, Fresno County
Health Department, Selma Fire Department, Selma Code Enforcement, Selma
Planning Department, or other City departments or agencies to inspect the
premises of an adult business for the purpose of ensuring compliance with the
law, at any time it is occupied or opened for business. A person who operates
an adult business or his or her agent or employee is in violation of the
provisions of this Section if he/she refuses to permit such lawful inspection
of the premises at any time it is occupied or opened for business.
   (O)   Expiration Of License: Each license shall expire one year from the
date of issuance and may be renewed only by making application as provided in
subsection (J) above of this Chapter (for renewals, filing of original survey
shall be sufficient). Application for renewal shall be made at least thirty
(30) days before the expiration date, and when made less than thirty (30) days
before the expiration date, the expiration of the license shall not be
affected. When the Director denies renewal of the license, the applicant shall
not be issued a license for one year from the date of denial. If, subsequent to
denial, the Director finds that the basis for denial of the renewal of the
license has been corrected, the applicant shall be granted a license if at
least ninety (90) days have elapsed since the date denial became final.
   (P)   Revocation Of License: After an investigation, notice and hearing, the
Director shall revoke an existing adult business license, as shall be found
necessary to assure the preservation of the public health and safety, if the
evidence presented establishes that one or more of the following conditions
exist:
      1.   The building, structure, equipment and location used by the business
fail to comply with the requirements or fail to meet the standards of the
health, zoning, fire and safety laws of the State, or of the regulations or
ordinances of the City; or
      2.   The licensee, his or her employee, agent, partner, director,
officer, stockholder or manager has knowingly made any false, misleading or
fraudulent statement of material facts in the application for a license, or in
any report or record required to be filed with the Selma Police, Fresno County
Sheriffs or other departments of the City; or
      3.   The licensee has had any type of adult business license revoked by
any public entity within three years of the date the license was issued; or
      4.   There is not a responsible adult on the premises to act as a manager
at all times in which the business is open or operating; or
      5.   The licensee is convicted of a felony or misdemeanor which offense
is classified by the State as an offense involving sexual crimes against
children, sexual abuse, rape, kidnaping, distribution of obscene material or
material harmful to minors, prostitution or pandering, including, but not
necessarily limited to, the violation of any crime requiring registration under
California Penal Code section 290, or any violation of Penal Code sections
243.4, 261, 261.5, 264.1, 266, 266a through 266k, inclusive, 267, 286, 286.5,
288, 288a, 311 through 311.10, inclusive, 314, 315, 316 or 647; or
      6.   If, on one or more occasions within a twelve (12) month period, a
person or persons has (have) been convicted of a felony or misdemeanor for an
offense set forth in subsection (P)5 of this Section, which offense has
occurred as a result of or has originated from such persons' activity on the
premises or property on which the adult business is located, and the person or
persons were employees, contractors or agents of the adult business at the time
the offenses were committed; or
      7.   If the licensee or any employee of the licensee has knowingly
allowed prostitution, or solicitation for prostitution, on the premises; or
      8.   The adult business has been operated in violation of any of the
requirements of this Chapter, and
      9.   If the violation is of a continuous nature, the business continues
to be operated in violation of such provision for more than ten (10) days
following the date written notice of such violation is mailed or delivered to
the licensee; or
      10.   If the violation is of a noncontinuous nature, two (2) or more
additional violations of the same provision, or four (4) or more violations of
any other of the provisions of this Chapter occur (regardless of whether notice
of each individual violation is given to licensee within any twelve (12) month
period); or
      11.   The subject adult business has employed minors; or
      12.   The Conditional Use Permit for the use has been suspended or
revoked.
   (Q)   Hearing On Revocation Of License: After an investigation, notice and
hearing, the Director shall revoke an existing adult business license, as shall
be found necessary to assure the preservation of the public health and safety,
if the evidence presented establishes that one or more of the following
conditions exist:
      1.   Upon determining that grounds for license revocation exist, the
Director shall furnish written notice of the proposed revocation to the
licensee. Such notice shall summarize the principal reasons for the proposed
revocation; shall state that the licensee may request a hearing within fifteen
(15) calendar days of the postmarked date on the notice; and shall be delivered
both by posting the notice at the location of the adult business and by sending
the notice by certified mail, postage prepaid, addressed to the licensee as
that name and address appear on the license. Within fifteen (15) calendar days
after the later of the mailing or posting of the notice the licensee may file a
request for hearing with the Director. If the request for a hearing is filed
within fifteen (15) calendar days of the mailing or posting of the notice
referred to herein, the Director shall transmit the request to the Planning
Commission, and the hearing shall be provided.
      2.   Upon receipt of a written request for a hearing, the Planning
Commission shall conduct a hearing. The Planning Commission shall conduct a
hearing within forty five (45) calendar days of the filing of such request by
the licensee. Notice of time and place of the hearing shall be given to the
licensee. Notice of time and place of the hearing shall be given to the
licensee by personal service or via certified mail, postage prepaid, at least
fifteen (15) calendar days in advance of the date set for the public hearing.
At the hearing, the licensee and the City shall be entitled to present relevant
evidence, testify under oath and call witnesses who shall testify under oath.
The Planning Commission shall not be bound by the statutory rules of evidence
in the hearing, except that hearsay evidence may not be the sole basis for the
determination of the Planning Commission.
      3.   At the conclusion of the hearing, the Planning Commission shall
decide whether the grounds for revocation exist and shall submit a written
report to the Director. Such written report shall contain a brief summary of
the evidence considered and shall state findings, conclusions and directives of
the Director regarding whether the license is to be revoked. All such reports
shall be filed with the City Clerk and shall be public records. A copy of such
report shall be forwarded by certified mail, postage prepaid, to the licensee
on the day it is filed with the City Clerk. If the Planning Commission
determines that any grounds for revocation exist, as provided in subsection (Q)
above of this Chapter, the Director, based upon the report of the Planning
Commission or, if no hearing was requested by the licensee, based upon the
report of the City staff, shall immediately revoke the adult business license.
The decision of the Selma Planning Commission shall be appealable to the City
Council by the filing of a written appeal with the City Clerk within fifteen
(15) calendar days following the date of mailing of such decision. A timely
filed appeal shall vacate the decision of the Planning Commission. Any such
appeal shall be a de novo public hearing held in the manner and within the time
limitations set forth in this Chapter. The decision of the City Council upon
appeal, or the decision of the Planning Commission in the absence of a timely
appeal, shall be final and conclusive. No application for an adult business
license shall be accepted or processed for any person, corporation,
partnership, or member thereof, or any other entity for which an adult business
license has been revoked within the preceding three year period.
   (R)   Judicial Review: Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this
Chapter, an action or proceeding to review the issuance, revocation,
suspension, or denial of a permit or license under this Chapter the applicant
may seek judicial review of the action in accordance with California Code of
Civil Procedure section 1094.8.
   (S)   Regulations Nonexclusive: The regulations set forth in this Chapter
are not intended to be exclusive and compliance therewith shall not excuse
noncompliance with any other regulations pertaining to the operation of adult
businesses as adopted by the City Council.
   (T)   Violations; Penalties: Any firm, corporation, or person, whether as
principal, agent, employee or otherwise, violating or causing the violation of
any of the provisions of this Chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and any
conviction thereof shall be punishable by a fine of not more than one thousand
dollars ($1,000.00) or by imprisonment for not more than six (6) months, or by
both such fine and imprisonment. Any violation of the provisions of this
Chapter shall constitute a separate offense for each and every day during which
such violation is committed or continued.
   (U)   Public Nuisance: In addition to the penalties set forth at subsection
(T) above of this Chapter, any adult business, which is operating in violation
of this Chapter or any provision thereof is hereby declared to constitute a
public nuisance and, as such, may be abated or enjoined from further operation.
   (V)   Conflicting Ordinances Repealed: All ordinances or parts of
ordinances, or regulations in conflict with the provisions of this Chapter are
hereby repealed. (Ord. 99-9, 8-16-1999; amd. Ord. 2024-6, 6-17-2024)
11-4-9: WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS FACILITIES:
   (A)   Purpose: The purpose of this Chapter is to establish reasonable and
uniform standards and procedures for personal wireless service facilities
deployment, construction, installation, collocation, modification, operation,
relocation, and removal on all areas within the city's territorial boundaries,
consistent with and to the extent permitted under Federal and State law. The
standards and procedures contained in this Chapter are intended to, and should
be applied to, protect and promote public health, safety and welfare, and
balance the benefits that flow from robust, advanced wireless services with the
city's local values, which include, without limitation, the aesthetic character
of the city, its various neighborhoods and community.
      1.   This Chapter is not intended to, nor shall it be interpreted or
applied to:
         (a)   Prohibit or effectively prohibit any personal wireless service
provider's ability to provide personal wireless services;
         (b)   Prohibit or effectively prohibit any personal wireless service
provider's ability to provide any interstate or intrastate telecommunications
service, subject to any competitively neutral and nondiscriminatory rules or
regulations;
         (c)   Unreasonably discriminate among providers of functionally
equivalent services;
         (d)   Deny any request for authorization to place, construct or modify
personal wireless service facilities based on environmental effects of radio
frequency emissions to the extent that such facilities comply with the Federal
Communication commission's regulations concerning such emissions;
         (e)   Prohibit any collocation or modification that the city may not
deny under Federal or State law; or
         (f)   Otherwise authorize the city to preempt any applicable Federal
or State law or regulation.
   (B)   Definitions: The abbreviations, phrases, terms and words shall have
the meanings assigned to them in this Section or, as may be appropriate, in
Chapter 8 (Terms and Definitions), as may be amended from time to time, unless
context indicates otherwise. Undefined phrases, terms or words in this Section
shall have the meanings assigned to them in 47 U.S.C. Section 702, as may be
amended from time to time, and, if not defined therein, shall have their
ordinary meanings. If any definition assigned to any phrase, term or word in
this Section conflicts with any Federal- or State-mandated definition, the
Federal- or State-mandated definition shall control.
      APPROVAL AUTHORITY: The Planning Director or designee, Planning
commission, or City Council on appeal.
      BASE STATION: Has the same definition as provided by the FCC in 47 C.F.R.
Section 1.40001(b)(1), as may be amended, which defines that term as a
structure or equipment at a fixed location that enables [FCC]-licensed or
authorized wireless communications between user equipment and a communications
network. The term does not encompass a tower as defined in [47 C.F.R. Section
1.40001(b)(9)] or any equipment associated with a tower. The term includes, but
is not limited to, equipment associated with wireless communications services
such as private, broadcast, and public safety services, as well as unlicensed
wireless services and fixed wireless services such as microwave backhaul. The
term includes, but is not limited to, radio transceivers, antennas, coaxial or
fiber-optic cable, regular and backup power supplies, and comparable equipment,
regardless of technological configuration (including distributed antenna
systems and small-cell networks). The term includes any structure other than a
tower that, at the time the relevant application is filed with the State or
local government under this Section, supports or houses equipment described in
subsections (1) and (2), codified as 47 C.F.R. Section 1.40001(b)(1)(i) and
(ii) that has been reviewed and approved under the applicable zoning or siting
process, or under another State or local regulatory review process, even if the
structure was not built for the sole or primary purpose of providing such
support. The term does not include any structure that, at the time the relevant
application is filed with the State or local government under this Section,
does not support or house equipment described in subsections (1) and (2),
codified as 47 C.F.R. Section 1.40001(b)(1)(i) and (ii).
      COLLOCATION: Has the same definition as provided by the FCC in 47 C.F.R.
Section 1.40001(b)(2), as may be amended, which defines that term as the
mounting or installation of transmission equipment on an eligible support
structure for the purpose of transmitting and/or receiving radio frequency
signals for communications purposes. As an illustration and not a limitation,
the FCC's definition effectively means "to add" and does not necessarily refer
to more than one personal wireless service facility installed at a single site.
      CPCN: A "Certificate of Public Convenience and Necessity" granted by the
CPUC or its duly appointed successor agency pursuant to California Public
Utilities Code Section 1001 et seq., as may be amended.
      CPUC: The California Public Utilities commission established in the
California Constitution, Article XII, Section 5, or its duly appointed
successor agency or agencies.
      ELIGIBLE FACILITIES REQUEST: Means the same as defined by the FCC in 47
C.F.R. § 1.40001(b)(3), as may be amended, which defines that term as a request
for modification of an existing tower or base station that does not
substantially change the physical dimensions of such tower or base station,
involving: (a) collocation of new transmission equipment, (b) removal of
transmission equipment, or (c) replacement of transmission equipment.
      ELIGIBLE SUPPORT STRUCTURE: The same as defined by the FCC in 47 C.F.R. §
1.40001(b)(4), as may be amended, which defines that term as any tower or base
station as defined in this section, provided that it is existing at the time
the relevant application is filed with the City.
      FAA: The Federal Aviation Administration or its duly appointed successor
agency.
      FCC: The Federal Communications commission or its duly appointed
successor agency.
      LEAST INTRUSIVE: That design or location of Telecom Facilities which is
technically feasible and most closely conforms to local values, including
aesthetics, as expressed through the municipal code and applicable design
standards. The least intrusive standard balances the national and state
interests in personal wireless services with the local interest in orderly,
planned development. A least intrusive design may, but is not necessarily
required to, include architectural integration, camouflage, pseudo-natural
integration or may be a stealth facility.
      OTARD: An over-the-air reception device subject to 47 C.F.R. Section
1.4000 et seq., as may be amended, and which includes, without limitation,
satellite television dishes not greater than one meter in diameter.
      PERSONAL WIRELESS SERVICES: The same as defined in 47 U.S.C. Section 332
(c)(7)(C)(i), as may be amended, which defines the term as commercial mobile
services, unlicensed wireless services and common carrier wireless exchange
access services.
      PERSONAL WIRELESS SERVICE FACILITIES: The same as defined in 47 U.S.C.
Section 332(c)(7)(C)(i), as may be amended, which defines the term as
facilities that provide personal wireless services.
      PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY: Any public street, alley, sidewalk, or parkway that
is owned or granted by easement, operated, or controlled by the city.
      RF: Radio frequency or electromagnetic waves between 30 kHz and 300 GHz
in the electromagnetic spectrum range.
      SECTION 6409(a): Section 6409(a) of the Middle-Class Tax Relief and Job
Creation Act, Pub. L. No. 112-96, 126 Stat. 156 (Feb. 22, 2012), codified as 47
U.S.C. Section 1455(a), as may be amended or superseded.
      SHOT CLOCK: The time frame within which the city generally must act on a
given wireless application, as defined by the FCC and as may be amended or
superseded.
      SMALL CELL FACILITY: Shall have the same meaning as Small Wireless
Facility in 47 C.F.R. § 1.6002(1) (or any successor provision), which is a
personal wireless services facility that meets the following conditions that,
solely for convenience, have been set forth below:
            (a)   The facility is mounted on a structure fifty feet (50') or
less in height, including antennas, as defined in 47 C.F.R. § 1.1320(d);
            (b)   Are mounted on structures no more than ten percent (10%)
taller than other adjacent structures; or
            (c)   Do not extend existing structures on which they are located
to a height of more than fifty feet (50') or by more than ten percent (10%),
whichever is greater.
            (d)   Each antenna associated with the deployment, excluding
associated antenna equipment (as defined in the definition of antenna in 47
C.F.R. § 1.1320(d)), is no more than three (3) cubic feet in volume;
            (e)   All other wireless equipment associated with the structure,
including the wireless equipment associated with the antenna and any pre-
existing associated equipment on the structure, is no more than twenty-eight
(28) cubic feet in volume;
            (f)   The facility does not require antenna structure registration
under 47 C.F.R. Part 17;
            (g)   The facility is not located on Tribal lands, as defined under
36 C.F.R. § 800.16(x); and
            (h)   The facility does not result in human exposure to radio-
frequency radiation in excess of the applicable safety standards specified in
47 C.F.R. § 1.1307(b).
      SUBSTANTIAL CHANGE: The same as defined by the FCC in 47 C.F.R. Section
1.40001(b)(7), as may be amended, which defines that term differently based on
the particular wireless facility type (tower or base station) and location (in
or outside the public right-of-way). For clarity, this definition organizes the
FCC's criteria and thresholds for a substantial change according to the
wireless facility type and location.
            (a)   For towers outside the public rights-of-way, a substantial
change occurs when:
               (1)   The proposed collocation or modification increases the
overall height more than ten percent (10%) or the height of one additional
antenna array not to exceed twenty feet (20') (whichever is greater); or
               (2)   The proposed collocation or modification increases the
width more than twenty feet (20') from the edge of the wireless tower or the
width of the wireless tower at the level of the appurtenance (whichever is
greater); or
               (3)   The proposed collocation or modification involves the
installation of more than the standard number of equipment cabinets for the
technology involved, not to exceed four (4); or
               (4)   The proposed collocation or modification involves
excavation outside the current boundaries of the leased or owned property
surrounding the wireless tower, including any access or utility easements
currently related to the site.
            (b)   For towers in the public rights-of-way and for all base
stations, a substantial change occurs when:
               (1)   The proposed collocation or modification increases the
overall height more than ten percent (10%) or ten feet (10') (whichever is
greater); or
               (2)   The proposed collocation or modification increases the
width more than six feet (6') from the edge of the wireless tower or base
station; or
               (3)   The proposed collocation or modification involves the
installation of any new equipment cabinets on the ground when there are no
existing ground-mounted equipment cabinets; or
               (4)   The proposed collocation or modification involves the
installation of any new ground-mounted equipment cabinets that are ten percent
(10%) larger in height or volume than any existing ground-mounted equipment
cabinets; or
               (5)   The proposed collocation or modification involves
excavation outside the area in proximity to the structure and other
transmission equipment already deployed on the ground.
            (c)   In addition, for all towers and base stations wherever
located, a substantial change occurs when:
               (1)   The proposed collocation or modification would defeat the
existing concealment elements of the support structure as reasonably determined
by the director; or
               (2)   The proposed collocation or modification violates a prior
condition of approval; provided, however, that the collocation need not comply
with any prior condition of approval related to height, width, equipment
cabinets or excavation that is inconsistent with the thresholds for a
substantial change described in this definition.
      TEMPORARY PERSONAL WIRELESS SERVICE FACILITIES: Portable wireless
communication facilities intended or used to provide personal wireless services
on a temporary or emergency basis, such as a large-scale special event in which
more users than usual gather in a confined location or when a disaster disables
permanent personal wireless service facilities. Temporary personal wireless
service facilities include, without limitation, cells-on-wheels ("COWs"),
sites-on-wheels ("SOWs"), cells-on-light-trucks ("COLTs") or other similarly
portable wireless communication facilities not permanently affixed to the site
or land upon which it is located.
      TOWER: Has the same definition as provided by the FCC in 47 C.F.R.
Section 1.40001(b)(9), as may be amended, which defines that term as any
structure built for the sole or primary purpose of supporting any FCC-licensed
or authorized antennas and their associated facilities, including structures
that are constructed for wireless communications services including, but not
limited to, private, broadcast, and public safety services, as well as
unlicensed wireless services and fixed wireless services such as microwave
backhaul, and the associated site. Examples include, but are not limited to,
monopoles, mono-trees and lattice towers.
      TRANSMISSION EQUIPMENT: Has the same definition as provided by the FCC in
47 C.F.R. Section 1.40001(b)(8), as may be amended, which defines that term as
equipment that facilitates transmission for any FCC-licensed or authorized
wireless communication service, including, but not limited to, radio
transceivers, antennas, coaxial or fiber-optic cable, and regular and backup
power supply. The term includes equipment associated with wireless
communications services including, but not limited to, private, broadcast, and
public safety services, as well as unlicensed wireless services and fixed
wireless services such as microwave backhaul.
      UTILITY POLE: Any pole or tower owned by any utility company that is
primarily used to support wires or cables necessary to the provision of
electrical or other utility services regulated by the California Public
Utilities Commission.
      WIRELESS: Any FCC-licensed or authorized wireless communication service
transmitted over frequencies in the electromagnetic spectrum.
   (C)   Applicability:
      1.   Applicable Facilities: This Chapter applies to all personal wireless
service facilities within the city and all applications and requests for
approval to construct, install, modify, collocate, relocate or otherwise deploy
personal wireless service facilities in the city, unless exempted pursuant to
subsection B of this Section.
      2.   Exempt Facilities: Notwithstanding subsection A of this Section, the
provisions in this Chapter shall not be applicable to:
         (a)   Amateur radio facilities;
         (b)   OTARD antennas;
         (c)   Personal wireless service facilities installed completely
indoors and not visible to the public intended to extend signals for personal
wireless services in a personal residence or a business (such as a femtocell or
indoor distributed antenna system); and
         (d)   Personal wireless service facilities or equipment owned and
operated by CPUC-regulated electric companies for use in connection with
electrical power generation, transmission, and distribution facilities subject
to CPUC General Order 131-D.
      3.   Requests For Approval Pursuant To Section 6409(a): Any request to
collocate, replace or remove transmission equipment at an existing tower or
base station submitted with a written request for approval under Section 6409
(a) shall be processed administratively pursuant to the standards and
procedures established by the Director, pursuant to subsection (D), and in
accordance with Federal law.
   (D)   Permits Required:
      1.   Director Review And Approval: A DRA is subject to the Planning
Director's review and approval in accordance with Section
11-6-6 (Director Review and Approval) may be issued for new facilities or
collocations or modifications to existing facilities that meet the following
criteria:
         a.   The facility is a small cell located within the public right-of-
way.
         b.   The facility qualifies as eligible facilities request as defined
in this chapter.
      2.   Conditional Use Permit: A CUP is required for all personal wireless
services facilities subject to Planning Commission review, except for those
that are exempt under subsection (C) or that are governed by subsection (C)3.
         In the event that the Director determines that any application
submitted for an Administrative Wireless Telecommunications Facility Permit
does not meet the criteria of this Code, the Director shall convert the
application to a Wireless Telecommunications Facility Conditional Use Permit
application and refer it to the City Council. Additional submittal materials
may be required.
      3.   Other Permits And Regulatory Approvals: In addition to any permit or
other permit required under this Chapter, the applicant must obtain all other
required permits and other regulatory approvals from the city, and State and
Federal agencies. Any use permit or other permit granted under this Chapter
shall be subject to the conditions and/or other requirements in any other
required permits or other regulatory approvals.
      4.   Proprietary Approvals: Nothing in this Chapter shall be deemed to
waive any required proprietary approvals for siting of personal wireless
service facilities on privately or publicly owned property or improvements.
   (E)   Application Requirements:
      1.   The City shall not accept, approve, or deny any personal wireless
service facility subject to this Chapter except upon a duly filed application
pursuant to subsection (E)3 and any other written rules the Director may
publish in any publicly stated format.
         Minimum Application Content: The materials required under this Section
are minimum requirements for any application for any personal wireless service
facility:
         (a)   Application Form: The Director shall prepare, and issue
application forms and lists that specify the information that will be required
from applicants for projects subject to the provisions of this Chapter, laws,
and applicable court decisions.
         (b)   Application Fee: The City Council may approve by resolution a
Municipal Fee Schedule that establishes cost-based fees for permits, appeals,
amendments, information materials, penalties, copying, and other such items.
These fees may be amended by the City Council.
      2.   Procedures For A Duly Filed Application: The City shall accept
applications filed in accordance with the provisions in this Section.
         (a)   Submittal Appointment: All applications must be filed with the
City at a pre-scheduled appointment. Applicants may generally submit one
application per appointment but may schedule successive appointments for
multiple applications whenever feasible and not prejudicial to other
applicants. Any application received without an appointment, whether delivered
in-person or through any other means, will not be deemed as filed.
         (b)   Appointment Scheduling Procedures: A pre-scheduled appointment
may be scheduled by contacting the City Planning Division. No application shall
be tendered to or accepted by the City during any of the following periods: (i)
any time the City Hall is closed to the public; (ii) any legal holiday observed
by the City;
      3.   Applications Deemed Withdrawn: To promote efficient review and
timely decisions, any application governed under this chapter will be
automatically deemed withdrawn by the applicant when the applicant fails to
tender a substantive response to the Director within ninety (90) calendar days
after the Director deems the application incomplete in a written notice to the
applicant. The Director may, in the Director's discretion, grant a written
extension for up to an additional thirty (30) calendar days when the applicant
submits a written request prior to the ninetieth day that shows good cause to
grant the extension. Delays due to circumstances outside the applicant's
reasonable control will be considered good cause to grant the extension.
      4.   Application Requirements: All applicants for a wireless
telecommunications facility shall submit all the content, information,
materials and fees required by the Director for the application. The City
Council authorizes the Director to develop, publish and from time-to-time
update or amend permit application forms, checklists, informational handouts
and other related materials that the Director finds necessary, appropriate or
useful for processing any application governed under this Section. The City
Council further authorizes the Director to establish other reasonable rules and
regulations, which may include regular hours for appointments with applicants,
as the Director deems necessary or appropriate to organize, document and manage
the application intake process. All such permit application forms, checklists,
informational handouts, rules and regulations must be in written form and made
available on the City's website and/or in-person at the Planning Department to
provide applicants with prior notice.
   (F)   Additional Requirements:
      1.   Technical Consultants: At its discretion, the City may engage
outside technical consultants to evaluate and/or verify the information used to
support the applicant's showing(s) in its application or with testimony in City
proceedings, and where applicable pursuant to this section. The reasonable cost
for the consultants shall be borne by the applicant. An advance deposit for the
estimated cost of the fees for the outside consultants shall be promptly paid
to the City by the applicant upon request by the City. Failure to pay such
deposit shall render any pending application incomplete until paid. After the
consultant's work has been completed, if the amount of the deposit was
insufficient to cover the cost of the consultants' fees the applicant shall
immediately reimburse the City for any shortfall. If the cost of the work is
less than the estimate the amount over shall promptly be repaid to the
applicant at the conclusion of the application proceedings.
      2.   Review Procedures: The City Council by resolution may adopt further
procedures for review of wireless facilities.
   (G)   Decision:
      1.   General Notice Required For The Application: Public notice as
provided in Section
11-7-9 will be required for any use permit. The approval authority shall not
act on any application for a personal wireless service facility unless the
public notice required by law has occurred.
      2.   Deemed-Approval Notice Procedures: Not more than thirty (30) days
before the applicable FCC timeframe for review expires, and in addition to the
public notice required in subsection (A)1, above, an applicant for a minor use
permit must provide a posted notice at the project site that states the project
shall be automatically deemed approved pursuant to California Government Code
Section 65964.1 unless the city approves or denies the application or the
applicant tolls the timeframe for review within the next thirty (30) days. The
posted notice must be compliant with the provisions in this Chapter. The public
notice required under this subsection (A)2 shall be deemed given when the
applicant delivers written notice to the Planning Director that shows the
appropriate notice has been posted at the project site.
      3.   Decision Notices: In accordance with Chapter 11-6 within two working
days after the approval authority approves, conditionally approves or denies an
application for a personal wireless service facility or before the FCC
timeframe for review expires (whichever occurs first), the approval authority
shall send a written determination to the applicant and all other parties
entitled to receive notice. For any denial notice, the approval authority shall
include the reasons for the denial either in the notice or as a separate
written document.
      4.   Required Findings For Approval: The approval authority shall only
approve or conditionally approve a duly filed application for a minor use
permit if the approval authority determines that the project, as submitted or
modified, conforms to all the following criteria. The inability to make one or
more of the findings is grounds for denial of an application. The proposed use
is consistent with the General Plan and any applicable specific plan;
         (a)   The physical location or placement of the use on the site is
compatible with and relates harmoniously to the surrounding neighborhood or
other built and natural environment;
         (b)   The proposed personal wireless service facility complies with
all applicable development standards described in Chapter
11-4-9-7;
         (c)   The applicant has demonstrated that its proposed facility shall
be in compliance with all applicable FCC rules and regulations for human
exposure to RF emissions;
         (d)   The applicant has demonstrated a good-faith effort to identify
and evaluate more-preferred locations and potentially less-intrusive designs;
and
         (e)   The applicant has provided the approval authority with a
meaningful comparative analysis that shows all less-intrusive alternative
locations and designs identified in the administrative record are either
technically infeasible or not potentially available.
      5.   Conditional Approvals: The approval authority may impose any
reasonable conditions on any entitlement granted, related and proportionate to
the subject matter in the application, as the approval authority deems
necessary or appropriate to promote and ensure conformance with the General
Plan, any applicable specific plan and all applicable provisions in the Selma
Municipal Code.
      6.   Limited Exception For Personal Wireless Service Facilities: The
Planning Director shall not grant any limited exceptions to the requirements of
this Chapter unless all of the following findings can be made:
         (a)   The proposed facility qualifies as a "personal wireless service
facility" as defined in 47 U.S.C. Section 332(c)(7)(C)(ii), as may be amended
or superseded;
         (b)   The applicant has provided the Planning Director with a
reasonable and clearly defined technical service objective to be achieved by
the proposed facility;
         (c)   The applicant has provided the Planning Director with a written
statement that contains a detailed and fact-specific explanation as to why the
proposed facility cannot be deployed in compliance with the applicable
provisions in this Chapter, the Municipal Code, the General Plan and/or any
specific plan;
         (d)   The applicant has provided the Planning Director with a
meaningful comparative analysis with the factual reasons why all alternative
locations and/or designs identified in the administrative record (whether
suggested by the applicant, the city, public comments or any other source) are
not technically feasible or potentially available to reasonably achieve the
applicant's reasonable and clearly defined technical service objective to be
achieved by the proposed facility; and
         (e)   The applicant has demonstrated that the proposed location and
design is the least non-compliant configuration that shall reasonably achieve
the applicant's reasonable and clearly defined technical service objective to
be achieved by the proposed facility, which includes, without limitation, a
meaningful comparative analysis into multiple smaller or less intrusive
facilities dispersed throughout the intended service area.
      7.   Appeals: Any person or entity may appeal a decision by the Planning
Director in accordance with the standards and procedures set forth in Section
11-7-8. Environmental effects from RF emissions that comply with all applicable
FCC regulations shall not be grounds for an appeal.
   (H)   Site Location Requirements For Facilities Outside The Public Right-Of-
Way:
      1.   The City desires to promote cleanly organized and streamlined
facilities using the smallest and least intrusive means available to provide
wireless services to the community. All wireless telecommunications facilities
located outside the public rights-of-way must comply with all applicable
provisions in this section. In the event that any other law, regulation or code
requires any more restrictive design and/or construction requirements, the most
restrictive requirement will control.
         (a)   Prohibited Locations: No personal wireless service facilities
shall be located in any residential zone.
         (b)   Exception To Prohibited Locations: Personal wireless service
facilities may be located in residential zones only on parcels without any
residential uses.
         (c)   Preferred Locations: All applicants must, to the extent
feasible, propose new wireless telecommunications facilities in locations
according to the following preferences, ordered from most preferred to least
preferred:
            (1)   Commercial zones;
            (2)   Manufacturing zones;
            (3)   Open Space zones.
      2.   No new facility may be placed in a less appropriate area unless the
applicant demonstrates that no more appropriate location can feasibly serve the
area the facility is intended to serve, provided that the City may authorize a
facility to be established in a less appropriate location if doing so is
necessary to prevent substantial aesthetic impacts.
      3.   Preferred Support Structures: In addition to the preferred locations
described in Section
11-4-9(H)1(c), the City also expresses its preference for installations on
certain support structures. The approval authority will take into account
whether a more preferred support structure is technically feasible and
potentially available. The City's preferred support structures are as follows,
ordered from most preferred to least preferred:
         (a)   Collocation on an existing non-tower structure;
         (b)   Collocation on an existing tower;
         (c)   New installations on existing buildings, utility structures, and
other non-tower structures;
         (d)   New freestanding towers.
   (I)   Site Location Requirements For Facilities Within The Public Right-of-
Way:
      1.   Preferred Facility Location: All applicants must, to the extent
feasible, propose new wireless telecommunications facilities in locations
according to the following preferences, ordered from most preferred to least
preferred:
         (a)   Within or abutting a commercial zone not requiring any
modifications to the existing location of any infrastructure or landscaping;
         (b)   Within or abutting a commercial zone requiring only minor
alterations to the existing infrastructure or landscaping (including planter
size);
         (c)   Within or abutting an open space zone;
         (d)   Abutting sensitive uses, such as historical sites, schools,
daycare facilities, playgrounds, etc.
         (e)   Within or abutting residential zones.
         (f)   No new facility may be placed in a less appropriate location
unless the applicant demonstrates that no more appropriate location can
feasibly serve the area the facility is intended to serve, provided that the
City may authorize a facility to be established in a less appropriate location
if doing so is necessary to prevent substantial aesthetic impacts.
      2.   Preferred Antenna Location: All applicants must, to the extent
feasible, propose antennas in locations according to the following preferences,
ordered from most preferred to least preferred:
         (a)   On an existing utility pole;
         (b)   On an existing street light;
         (c)   No new antennas may be placed in a less appropriate location
unless the applicant demonstrates that no more appropriate location can
feasibly serve the area the antennas are intended to serve, provided that the
City may authorize antennas to be established in a less appropriate location if
doing so is necessary to prevent substantial aesthetic impacts.
      3.   Preferred Equipment Location: All applicants must, to the extent
feasible, propose equipment in locations according to the following
preferences, ordered from most preferred to least preferred:
         (a)   Within a below-grade equipment vault, vault must be flush with
grade;
         (b)   Mounted on the subject vertical infrastructure;
         (c)   In an existing ground-mounted (grade-level) equipment cabinet or
enclosure, with no expansion or additional cabinets to be added;
         (d)   Within a new equipment cabinet or enclosure mounted at grade. An
exception shall be required to place a new equipment cabinet or enclosure
mounted at grade.
         (e)   No new equipment may be placed in a less appropriate location
unless the applicant demonstrates that no more appropriate equipment location
can feasibly serve the facility, provided that the City may authorize equipment
to be established in a less appropriate location if doing so is necessary to
prevent substantial aesthetic impacts.
      4.   Exception Required: Wireless telecommunications facilities are
strongly disfavored in certain areas. Therefore, the following locations are
permitted only when an exception has been granted pursuant to Section
11-4-9.6
         (a)   Within center medians;
         (b)   Mounted on traffic signals;
         (c)   Mounted on new vertical infrastructure that is not replacing
existing vertical infrastructure;
         (d)   New equipment cabinet or enclosure mounted at grade.
      5.   No Interference With Public Rights-Of-Way: In no case shall any part
of a wireless telecommunications facility alter vehicular circulation or
parking within the public rights-of-way, nor shall it impede vehicular and/or
pedestrian access or visibility along any public right-of-way. No permittee
shall locate or maintain wireless telecommunications facilities to unreasonably
interfere with the use of city property or the public rights-of-way by the
City, by the general public or by other persons authorized to use or be present
in or upon the public rights-of-way. Unreasonable interference includes
disruption to vehicular, bicycle, or pedestrian traffic on city property or the
public rights-of-way, interference with public utilities, and any such other
activities that will present a hazard to public health, safety or welfare when
alternative methods of construction would result in less disruption. All such
facilities shall be moved by the permittee, at the permittee's cost,
temporarily or permanently, as determined by the City Engineer or the Planning
Director.
   (J)   Standards Of Review:
      1.   Generally Applicable Standards: All new personal wireless service
facilities and all collocations or modifications to existing personal wireless
service facilities not subject to Section 6409(a) must conform to the generally
applicable development standards in this subsection to mitigate impacts on
adjacent properties.
         (a)   Location: The proposed facility shall comply with all applicable
development standards of the base district in which it is located.
         (b)   Concealment: Personal wireless service facilities must
incorporate concealment elements, measures and techniques that blend the
equipment and other improvements into the natural and/or built environment in a
manner consistent and/or compatible with the uses germane to the underlying
zoning district and existing in the immediate vicinity.
         (c)   Overall Height: Ground-mounted towers may not exceed the
applicable height limit for structures in the applicable zoning district.
Rooftop personal wireless service facilities may not extend beyond fifteen feet
(15') above the roofline.
         (d)   Setbacks: Personal wireless service facilities may not encroach
into any applicable setback for structures in the subject zoning district.
         (e)   Landscaping: Personal wireless service facilities must include
landscape features when proposed in a landscaped area. The approval authority
may require additional landscape features to screen the facility from public
view, avoid or mitigate potential adverse impacts on adjacent properties or
otherwise enhance the concealment required under this Chapter. The permittee
shall be responsible for maintenance of and replacement of all landscaping.
         (f)   Backup Power Sources: After obtaining all necessary permits, the
permittee may operate backup power generators only during: (1) commercial power
outages, or (2) for maintenance purposes during normal construction hours. The
city strongly favors non- and low-polluting backup power sources such as fuel
cells and natural gas generators, and strongly disfavors backup power sources
that pollute such as diesel and gasoline generators. The approval authority
shall not approve any diesel or gasoline generators or other similarly noisy or
noxious generators in or within one thousand feet (1,000') from any residence
or park; provided, however, the approval authority may approve sockets or other
connections used for temporary backup generators.
         (g)   Lighting: Exterior facility lighting and fencing shall not be
permitted unless required by federal regulations or by the Director for safety
purposes.
         (h)   Signage; Advertisements: All personal wireless service
facilities must include signage that continuously and accurately identifies the
equipment owner/operator, the owner/operator's site name or identification
number, as well as a local or toll-free number to the owner/operator's network
operations center. Personal wireless service facilities must not bear any other
signage or advertisements unless expressly approved by the city, required by
law or recommended by the FCC, CPUC, or other United States or State
governmental agencies.
         (i)   Future Collocations: All personal wireless facilities shall
demonstrate good faith effort to co-locate on existing facilities or sites and
in non-residential zones. Requests for co-location on existing monopoles or
other wireless service facilities that do not increase the height, bulk or
otherwise adversely detract from the existing facility, shall be approved if
aesthetically acceptable and structurally and technologically feasible.
         (j)   Utilities: All wires or cables necessary for operation shall be
placed underground, except if attached flush to the building surface where not
highly visible from surrounding uses.
         (k)   Compliance With Laws: All personal wireless service facilities
must be designed and sited in compliance with all applicable Federal, State and
local laws, regulations, rules, restrictions and conditions, which includes,
without limitation, the California Building Standards Code, General Plan and
any specific plan, the Selma Municipal Code and any conditions or restrictions
in any permit or other governmental approval issued by any public agency with
jurisdiction over the project.
   (K)   Standard Conditions Of Approval: In addition to all other conditions
adopted by the approval authority, all use permits, whether approved by the
approval authority or deemed approved by the operation of law, shall be
automatically subject to the conditions set forth below:
      1.   Approved Plans: Before the permittee submits any applications to the
Building and Safety Division, the permittee must incorporate the permit, all
conditions associated with the permit and the approved photo simulations into
the project plans (the "Approved Plans"). The permittee must construct, install
and operate the facility in strict compliance with the Approved Plans. Any
alterations, modifications or other changes to the Approved Plans, whether
requested by the permittee or required by other departments or public agencies
with jurisdiction over the facility, must be submitted in a written request
subject to the Planning Director's prior review and approval, who may refer the
request to the original approval authority if the Planning Director finds that
the requested alteration, modification or other change implicates a significant
or substantial land-use concern.
      2.   Build-Out Period: In accordance with Section
11-6-11 Permit Implementation, Time Limits and Extensions, the permit shall
automatically expire two (2) years from the issuance date unless the permittee
obtains all other permits and approvals required to install, construct and/or
operate the approved facility, which includes, without limitation, any permits
or approvals required by the any Federal, State or local public agencies with
jurisdiction over the subject property, the facility or its use. The Planning
Director may grant one written extension to a date certain when the permittee
shows good cause to extend the limitations period in a written request for an
extension received by the City prior to the automatic expiration date in this
condition.
      3.   Maintenance Obligations; Vandalism: The permittee shall at all times
keep the site, which includes, without limitation, any and all improvements,
equipment, structures, access routes, fences and landscape features, in a neat,
clean and safe condition in accordance with the Approved Plans and all
conditions in the permit. The permittee shall keep the site area free from all
litter and debris at all times. The permittee, at no cost to the City, shall
remove and remediate any graffiti or other vandalism at the site within forty
eight (48) hours after the permittee receives notice or otherwise becomes aware
through its own staff including contractors that such graffiti or other
vandalism occurred.
      4.   Compliance With Laws: The permittee shall maintain compliance at all
times with all Federal, State and local statutes, regulations, orders or other
rules that carry the force of law ("Laws") applicable to the permittee, the
subject property, the facility or any use or activities in connection with the
use authorized in the permit. The permittee expressly acknowledges and agrees
that this obligation is intended to be broadly construed and that no other
specific requirements in these conditions are intended to reduce, relieve or
otherwise lessen the permittee's obligations to maintain compliance with all
Laws.
      5.   Inspections; Emergencies: The permittee expressly acknowledges and
agrees that the City or its designee may enter onto the site and inspect the
improvements and equipment upon reasonable prior notice to the permittee;
provided, however, that the City or its designee may, but shall not be
obligated to, enter onto the site area without prior notice to support, repair,
disable or remove any improvements or equipment in emergencies or when such
improvements or equipment threatens actual, imminent harm to property or
persons. The permittee shall be permitted to supervise the City or its designee
while such inspection or emergency access occurs.
      6.   Contact Information: The permittee shall furnish the City Planning
Division with accurate and up-to-date contact information for a person
responsible for the facility, which includes, without limitation, such person's
full name, title, direct telephone number, facsimile number, mailing address
and email address. The permittee shall keep such contact information up-to-date
at all time.
      7.   Indemnification: The applicant, permittee, operator of a facility,
and property owner (when applicable) agrees to defend, indemnify and hold
harmless the City of Villa Park, its agents, officers and employees from any
claim, action or proceeding against the City or its agents, officers or
employees to attack, set aside, void or annul an approval of the City or any of
its councils, commissions, committees or boards arising from or in any way
related to the wireless telecommunications facility, or any actions or
operations conducted pursuant thereto. Should the City, its agents, officers or
employees receive notice of any such claim, action or proceeding, the City
shall promptly notify the applicant, permittee, operator of a facility, and
property owner of such claim, action or proceeding, and shall cooperate fully
in the defense thereof.
      8.   Revocation/Modification Of Permit: The original approval authority
may revoke or modify the permit at any time based upon noncompliance with the
Selma Municipal Code or any approval conditions. In accordance with Section
11-7-13, the approval authority may revoke the permit or amend these conditions
as the approval authority deems necessary or appropriate to correct any such
noncompliance.
      9.   Duty To Retain Records: The permittee must maintain complete and
accurate copies of all permits and other regulatory approvals (the records)
issued in connection with the personal wireless service facility, which
includes, without limitation, this approval, the approved plans and photo
simulations incorporated into this approval, all conditions associated with
this approval and any ministerial permits or approvals issued in connection
with this approval. In the event that the permittee does not maintain such
records as required in this condition or fails to produce true and complete
copies of such records within a reasonable time after a written request from
the City, any ambiguities or uncertainties that would be resolved through an
inspection of the missing records shall be construed against the permittee.
      10.   Additional conditions for wireless telecommunications facilities
within the rights-of-way:
      11.   Taxes And Assessments: To the extent taxes or other assessments are
imposed by taxing authorities on the use of City property as a result of an
applicant's use or occupation of the rights-of-way, the applicant shall be
responsible for payment of such taxes, payable annually unless otherwise
required by the taxing authority.
      12.   Undergrounded Utilities: In the event that other public utilities
or cable television operators in the public rights-of-way where the permittee's
wireless facility is located underground their facilities, the permittee must
underground its equipment except the antennas and antenna supports. Such
undergrounding shall occur at the permittee's sole cost and expense except as
reimbursed pursuant to law.
      13.   Electric Meter Removal: In the event that the commercial electric
utility provider adopts or changes its rules obviating the need for a separate
electric meter and enclosure, the permittee on its own initiative and at its
sole cost and expense shall apply to the City for permission to remove the
separate electric meter and enclosure and restore the affected area to its
original condition.
      14.   Existing Infrastructure Restoration:
         (a)   Upon installation of the new work, the contractor shall restore
the street and/or alley pavement as required in full and complete compliance
with the approved Encroachment Permit and Wireless Telecommunications Facility
Permit for use of the public right-of-way, and to the satisfaction of the City
Engineer.
         (b)   Upon installation of the new work, the contractor shall restore
all concrete walks, driveway aprons, and "collector strips" as required in full
and complete compliance to the satisfaction of the City Engineer.
         (c)   Upon installation of the new work, the contractor shall restore
all trees, landscaping, lawns and/or sod strips to the satisfaction of the City
Engineer.
   (L)   Temporary Personal Wireless Facilities:
      1.   Temporary Personal Wireless Service Facilities-Non-Emergencies: The
Planning Director may approve or conditionally approve a temporary use permit
for a temporary personal wireless service facility for a period between four
(4) days and forty five (45) days, inclusive, in accordance with Chapter
11-6-8 (Temporary Use Permits) only when the Planning Director finds all the
following:
         (a)   The proposed temporary personal wireless service facility shall
not exceed fifty feet (50') in overall height above ground level;
         (b)   The proposed temporary personal wireless service facility
complies with all setback requirements applicable to the proposed location;
         (c)   The proposed temporary personal wireless service facility shall
not involve any excavation or ground disturbance;
         (d)   The proposed temporary personal wireless service facility shall
be compliant with all generally applicable public health and safety laws and
regulations, which includes, without limitation, maximum permissible exposure
limits for human exposure to RF emissions established by the FCC;
         (e)   The proposed temporary personal wireless service facility shall
not create any nuisance or violate any noise limits applicable to the proposed
location;
         (f)   The proposed temporary personal wireless service facility shall
be identified with a sign that clearly identifies the site operator and
contains a working telephone number to a live person who can exert power-down
control over the antennas;
         (g)   The proposed wireless temporary personal wireless service
facility shall be removed within five (5) days after the expiration of the
temporary use permit;
         (h)   The applicant has not received any other temporary use permit
for substantially the same location within the previous ninety (90) calendar
days; and
         (i)   The applicant has not sought approval for any permanent personal
wireless service facility in substantially the same location within the
previous three hundred sixty five (365) days.
      2.   Temporary Personal Wireless Service Facilities-Emergencies:
         (a)   Temporary personal wireless service facilities may be placed and
operated within the City for more than three (3) days without a temporary use
permit only when a duly-authorized Federal, State, county or City official
declares an emergency within the City, or a region that includes the City in
whole or in part at the location of the temporary personal wireless service
facility.
         (b)   By placing the temporary personal wireless service facility
pursuant to this subsection (b), the entity or person placing the temporary
personal wireless service facility agrees to and shall defend, indemnify and
hold harmless the City, its agents, officers, officials, employees and
volunteers from any and all damages, liabilities, injuries, losses, costs and
expenses and from any and all claims, demands, law suits, writs and other
actions or proceedings ("Claims") brought against the City or its agents,
officers, officials, employees or volunteers for any and all Claims of any
nature related to the installation, use, non-use, occupancy, removal, and
disposal of the temporary personal wireless service facility; provided,
however, the permittee and, if applicable, the property owner upon which the
facility is installed, shall not defend, indemnify, or hold harmless the City,
agents, officers, officials, employees and volunteers due to the negligence,
gross negligence, or willful misconduct of the City, agents, officers,
officials, employees, and volunteers.
            The temporary personal wireless service facility shall prominently
display upon it a legible notice identifying the entity responsible for the
placement and operation of the temporary personal wireless service facility.
            Any temporary personal wireless service facilities placed pursuant
to this subsection (b) must be removed within: (a) five (5) days after the date
the emergency is lifted; or (b) upon three (3) days' written notice from the
Community Development Director or City Manager; or (c) within one hour if
required for public safety reasons by City police or fire officials (whichever
occurs first). In the event that the temporary facility is not removed as
required in this subsection B, the City may at its sole election remove and
store or remove and dispose of the temporary facility at the sole cost and risk
of the person or entity placing the temporary facility.
The Community Development Director's decision pursuant to subsection A, above,
shall be final and not subject to further administrative appeal. (Ord. 2024-6,
6-17-2024)
11-4-10: DENSITY BONUS STANDARDS:
   (A)   Purpose And Intent:
      1.   Purpose: The provisions of this Section provide incentives for the
production of housing in compliance with Government Code Sections 65915 through
65918 for very low-, low-, and moderate-income households and senior
households.
      2.   Intent: It is the intent of the City to facilitate the development
of affordable housing and to implement the goals, objectives, and policies of
the City's Housing Element.
      3.   Conflicts: Where regulations are not specifically addressed in this
Section or where there are conflicts between these provisions and the
provisions of Government Code Sections 65915 through 65918, the provisions of
the Government Code, as they may be amended over time, shall apply.
   (B)   Definitions:
      AFFORDABLE HOUSING COST: Affordable housing cost as defined in Health and
Safety Code Section 50052.5.
      AFFORDABLE RENT: Affordable rent as defined in Health and Safety Code
Section 50053.
      CHILDCARE FACILITY: A child daycare facility other than a family day
care, including, but not limited to, infant centers, preschools, extended
daycare facilities and school age childcare centers.
      COMMON INTEREST DEVELOPMENT: Common interest development as defined in
Civil Code Section 4100.
      CONCESSION OR INCENTIVE: Any of the following:
         (a)   A reduction in site development standards or a modification of
zoning code requirements or architectural design requirements that exceed the
minimum building standards approved by the California Building Standards
Commission as provided in Part 2.5 (commencing with Section 18901) of Division
13 of the Health and Safety Code, including, but not limited to, a reduction in
setback and square footage requirements and in the ratio of vehicular parking
spaces that would otherwise be required that results in identifiable and actual
cost reductions, to provide for affordable housing costs, as defined in Section
50052.5 of the Health and Safety Code, or for rents for the targeted units to
be set as specified in Government Code Section 65915(c).
         (b)   Approval of mixed-use zoning in conjunction with the housing
project if commercial, office, industrial, or other land uses will reduce the
cost of the housing development and if the commercial, office, industrial, or
other land uses are compatible with the housing project and the existing or
planned development in the area where the proposed housing project will be
located.
         (c)   Other regulatory incentives or concessions proposed by the
developer or the city, county, or city and county that result in identifiable
and actual cost reductions to provide for affordable housing costs, as defined
in Section 50052.5 of the Health and Safety Code, or for rents for the targeted
units to be set as specified in Government Code Section 65915(c).
      DENSITY BONUS: A density increase over the otherwise maximum allowable
gross residential density as of the date of application for first planning
entitlement or permit, or, if elected by the applicant, a lesser percentage of
density increase, including, but not limited to, no increase in density.
      DEVELOPMENT STANDARD: A site or construction condition, including, but
not limited to, a height limitation, a setback requirement, a floor area ratio,
an onsite open-space requirement, or a parking ratio that applies to a
residential development pursuant to any ordinance, general plan element,
specific plan, charter, or other local condition, law, policy, resolution or
regulation.
      HOUSING DEVELOPMENT: A development project for five (5) or more
residential units, including a mixed-use development. For purposes of this
Chapter, "housing development" also includes a subdivision or common interest
development, as defined in Section 4100 of the Civil Code, that consists of
residential units or unimproved residential lots and either a project to
substantially rehabilitate and convert an existing commercial building to
residential use or the substantial rehabilitation of an existing multifamily
dwelling, as defined in Government Code Section 65863.4, where the result of
the rehabilitation would be a net increase in available residential units.
      LOWER INCOME HOUSEHOLDS: Lower income households as defined by Health and
Safety Code Section 50079.5.
      MAJOR TRANSIT STOP: A major transit stop as defined in Public Resources
Code Section 21155(b).
      MAXIMUM ALLOWABLE RESIDENTIAL DENSITY: The density allowed under the
Zoning Ordinance, Title XI of this Municipal Code (the "Zoning Ordinance") and
the City of Selma General Plan, or, if a range of density is permitted, means
the maximum allowable density for the specific zoning district, as set forth in
Title XI of the Zoning Ordinance, and the and the City of Selma General Plan
applicable to the project. If the density allowed under the Zoning Ordinance is
inconsistent with the density allowed under the General Plan, the density
provisions of the General Plan shall prevail.
      MODERATE-INCOME HOUSEHOLDS: Moderate-income households as defined in
Health and Safety Code Section 50053.
      PERSONS AND FAMILIES OF MODERATE INCOME: Persons and families of moderate
income as defined in Health and Safety Code Section 50093.
      VERY LOW INCOME HOUSEHOLDS: Very low income households as defined in
Health and Safety Code Section 50105.
   (C)   Requirements: To be eligible for a density bonus, reduced parking
ratios, and other incentives or concessions as provided by this Section, a
proposed housing development shall comply with the following requirements and
shall satisfy all other applicable provisions of this Code, except as provide
by Subsection
11-4-10(E) (Allowed Incentives or Concessions), Subsection
11-4-10(I) (Parking Requirements in Density Bonus Projects), and Subsection 11-
4-10(J) (Housing with Childcare Facilities).
      1.   Project Eligible For Density Bonuses: Excluding any units permitted
by the density bonus, the City shall grant one density bonus, the amount of
which shall be specified in Subsection 11-4.10(C) (Density Bonus Amount), when
an applicant for a housing development, includes within that development at
least any one of the following:
         (a)   At least five percent (5%) of the total dwelling units are for
very low-income households;
         (b)   At least ten percent (10%) of the total dwelling units are for
low-income households;
         (c)   At least ten percent (10%) of the dwelling units in a common
interest development as defined in Civil Code Section 4100 are for persons and
families of moderate-income, as defined in Health and Safety Code Section
50093, provided that all units in the development are offered to the public for
purchase subject to the equity share and restrictions specified in Government
Code 65915(g);
         (d)   The project is a senior citizen housing development as defined
in Civil Code Sections 51.3 and 51.12, or is a mobile home park that limits
residency based on age requirements for housing older persons in compliance
with Civil Code Sections 798.76 or 799.5;
         (e)   At least twenty percent (20%) of the dwelling units in a student
housing development for lower income students that meets the requirements of
Government Code Section 65915(b)(1)(F);
         (f)   One hundred percent (100%) of all the dwelling units in the
housing development, including total units and density bonus units, but
exclusive of a manager's unit(s), are for lower-income households, as defined
in Health and Safety Code Section 50079.5, except that 20 percent of the units
in the development, including total units and density bonus units, may be for
moderate-income house; or
         (g)   At least ten percent (10%) of the dwelling units in a housing
development for transitional foster youth, as defined in Education Code Section
66025.9; disabled veterans, as defined in Section 18541; or homeless persons,
as defined in the Federal McKinney-Vento Homeless Assistance Act (42 U.S.C.
Sec. 11301 et seq.).
      2.   Density Bonus Selection: For purposes of calculating the amount of
the density bonus in compliance with Subsection
11-4-10(E) (Allowed Incentives or Concessions) below, the applicant who
requests a density bonus shall elect whether the bonus shall be awarded based
on subsection (C)1, above.
      3.   Bonus Units Not To Qualify: A density bonus granted in compliance
with Subsection
11-4-10(C) (Density Bonus Amount), below, shall not be included when
determining the number of dwelling units that are required by subsection (C)1
above.
      4.   Minimum Project Size: The density bonus provided by this Section
shall be available only to a housing development of five (5) or more dwelling
units, including mixed-use developments.
      5.   Condominium Conversion Projects: A condominium conversion project
for which a density bonus is requested shall comply with the eligibility and
other requirements specified in Government Code Section 65915.5.
      6.   Commercial Development: When an applicant for approval of a
commercial development has entered into an agreement for partnered housing to
contribute affordable housing through a joint project or two (2) separate
projects encompassing affordable housing, the Community Development Director
shall grant to the commercial developer a development bonus, in compliance with
the following:
         (a)   Agreement For Partnered Housing: The agreement for partnered
housing shall be between the commercial developer and the housing developer,
shall identify how the commercial developer will contribute affordable housing,
and shall be approved by the City. Affordable housing may be contributed by the
commercial developer in one of the following manners:
            (1)   The commercial developer may directly build the dwelling
units;
            (2)   The commercial developer may donate a portion of the parcel
or property elsewhere to the affordable housing developer for use as a site for
affordable housing; or
            (3)   The commercial developer may make a cash payment to the
affordable housing developer that shall be used towards the costs of
constructing the affordable housing project.
         (b)   Affordability Requirements: To qualify for a development bonus
under this Subparagraph, a commercial developer shall partner with a housing
developer that provides at least thirty percent (30%) of the dwelling units for
low-income households or at least fifteen percent (15%) of the dwelling units
for very low-income households.
         (c)   Location of Affordable Housing: The housing shall be constructed
on the site of the commercial development or on a site that complies with the
following:
            (1)   Within the unincorporated City limits;
            (2)   Close to public facilities and services, including schools
and employment centers; and
            (3)   Within one-half mile of a major transit stop, as defined in
Public Resources Code Section 21155(b).
         (d)   Type Of Development Bonus: The development bonus granted to the
commercial developer shall mean incentives, mutually agreed upon by the
developer and the City, that may include, but are not limited to, any of the
following:
            (1)   Up to a twenty percent (20%) increase in maximum allowable
intensity in the General Plan;
            (2)   Up to a twenty percent (20%) increase in maximum allowable
floor area ratio;
            (3)   Up to a twenty percent (20%) increase in maximum height
requirements;
            (4)   Up to a twenty percent (20%) reduction in minimum parking
requirements;
            (5)   Use of a limited-use/limited-application elevator for upper
floor accessibility; and/or
            (6)   An exception to the standards established in this Code or
other land use regulation.
         (e)   Affordable Housing Fee: A development bonus pursuant to this
Section shall not include a reduction or waiver of the requirements within an
ordinance that requires the payment of a fee by a commercial developer for the
promotion or provision of affordable housing.
         (f)   Timing Of Construction: If the developer of the affordable
dwelling units does not commence with construction of the affordable units in
accordance with timelines established by the agreement described in
Subparagraph a, above, the City may withhold certificates of occupancy for the
commercial development under construction until the developer has completed
construction of the affordable units.
   (D)   Density Bonus Amount:
      1.   Density Bonus: A housing development the complies with the
eligibility requirements established in this Section shall be entitled to
density bonuses as follows, unless a lesser percentage is proposed by the
applicant.
         (a)   Very Low-Income Density Bonus: A housing development which
provides very low-income units shall be entitled to a density bonus calculated
as follows:
Table 4-1   Bonus for Very Low-Income Household Units
Percentage of Very Low-Income Units Proposed Percentage Density Bonus
Table 4-1   Bonus for Very Low-Income Household Units
Percentage of Very Low-Income Units Proposed Percentage Density Bonus
5                                            20
6                                            22.5
7                                            25
8                                            27.5
9                                            30
10                                           32.5
11                                           35
12                                           38.75
13                                           42.5
14                                           46.25
15-44                                        50
100*                                         80
* Applies when 100 percent off the total units, excluding manager's units, are
restricted to very low-, lower-, and moderate-income (maximum 20 percent
moderate).
 
         (b)   Low-Income Density Bonus: A housing development which provides
low-income units shall be entitled to a density bonus calculated as follows:
Table 4-2   Bonus for Low-Income Household Units
Percentage of Low-Income Units Proposed Percentage Density Bonus
Table 4-2   Bonus for Low-Income Household Units
Percentage of Low-Income Units Proposed Percentage Density Bonus
10                                      20
11                                      21.5
12                                      23
13                                      24.5
14                                      26
15                                      27.5
16                                      29
17                                      30.5
18                                      32
19                                      33.5
20                                      35
21                                      38.75
22                                      42.5
23                                      46.25
24-44                                   50
100*                                    80
* Applies when 100 percent off the total units, excluding manager's units, are
restricted to very low-, lower-, and moderate-income (maximum 20 percent
moderate).
 
         (c)   Moderate-Income Density Bonus. A common interest housing
development which provides moderate-income units shall be entitled to a density
bonus calculated as follows:
Table 4-3   Bonus for Moderate-Income Household Units
Percentage of Moderate-Income Units Proposed Percentage Density Bonus
Table 4-3   Bonus for Moderate-Income Household Units
Percentage of Moderate-Income Units Proposed Percentage Density Bonus
10                                           5
11                                           6
12                                           7
13                                           8
14                                           9
15                                           10
16                                           11
17                                           12
18                                           13
19                                           14
20                                           15
21                                           16
22                                           17
23                                           18
24                                           19
25                                           20
26                                           21
27                                           22
28                                           23
29                                           24
30                                           25
31                                           26
32                                           27
33                                           28
34                                           29
35                                           30
36                                           31
37                                           32
38                                           33
39                                           34
40                                           35
41                                           38.75
42                                           42.5
43                                           46.25
44                                           50
100*                                         80
* Applies when 100 percent off the total units, excluding manager's units, are
restricted to very low-, lower-, and moderate-income (maximum 20 percent
moderate).
 
         (d)   Land Donation Density Bonus: When an applicant for a tentative
map, parcel map, or other residential development approval donates land to the
City in compliance with Section, the applicant shall be entitled to a density
bonus for the entire development, as follows; provided, that nothing in this
Subparagraph shall be construed to affect the authority of the City to require
a developer to donate land as a condition of development approval. See
Subsection (G) (Donations of Land) for addition land donation requirements.
Table 4-4   Bonus for Land Donation
Percentage of Very Low-Income Units Proposed Percentage Density Bonus
Table 4-4   Bonus for Land Donation
Percentage of Very Low-Income Units Proposed Percentage Density Bonus
10                                           15
11                                           16
12                                           17
13                                           18
14                                           19
15                                           20
16                                           21
17                                           22
18                                           23
19                                           24
20                                           25
21                                           26
22                                           27
23                                           28
24                                           29
25                                           30
26                                           31
27                                           32
28                                           33
29                                           34
30                                           35
 
         (e)   Senior Housing Density Bonus: A housing development that is
eligible for a bonus shall be entitled to a density bonus of twenty percent
(20%) of the number of senior housing units. No affordable units are required
to qualify for this bonus.
         (f)   Student Housing Density Bonus: A housing development that is
eligible for a bonus shall be entitled to a density bonus of thirty five
percent (35%) of the student housing units. The term "unit", as used in this
Subparagraph, means one rental bed and its pro rata share of associated common
area facilities.
         (g)   Transitional Foster Youth, Disabled Veteran, Or Homeless Persons
Housing Density Bonus: A housing development that is eligible for a bonus be
entitled to a density bonus of twenty percent (20%) of the total number of
dwelling units for transitional foster youth, disabled veterans, or homeless
persons.
         (h)   Greater Or Lesser Bonuses: The City may choose to grant a
density bonus greater than provided by this Section for a development that
meets the requirements of this Subsection or grant a proportionately lower-
density bonus for a development that does not fully comply with the
requirements of this Subsection.
      2.   Density Bonus Calculations: For the purpose of density bonus
calculations:
         (a)   Fractional units shall be rounded up to the next whole number,
in compliance in State law.
         (b)   The residential units do not have to be based upon individual
subdivision maps or parcels.
         (c)   The residential units shall be on contiguous parcels that are
the subject of one development application.
         (d)   The density bonus shall be permitted in the geographic area of
the housing development other than the areas where the units for the lower-
income household are located.
         (e)   Affordable housing projects shall choose a density bonus from
only one affordability category (e.g., very low-income, etc.) and may not
combine categories.
         (f)   A density bonus for a senior housing project may not be combined
with a density bonus for an affordable housing project.
         (g)   A density bonus for the donation of land may be combined with
density bonuses for affordable and senior housing. However, in no case may a
total density bonus exceed thirty five percent (35%).
Requirements For Amendments Or Discretionary Approval: The granting of a
density bonus shall not be interpreted, in and of itself, to require a General
Plan amendment, Zone Map amendment, or other discretionary approval. The
granting of a density bonus shall not require or be interpreted to require the
waiver of a local ordinance or provisions of a local ordinance unrelated to
development standards.
Location Of Bonus Units: The developer may locate density bonus units in the
housing project in areas other than where the units for the low-income
households are located.
   (E)   Continued Affordability: The applicant shall agree to, and the City
shall ensure, the continued affordability of the units that qualified the
housing development for a density bonus and other incentives and concessions
shall continue to be available as affordable dwelling units in compliance with
the following requirements, as required by Government Code Section 65915(c).
      1.   Duration Of Affordability: The applicant shall agree to, and the
City shall ensure, the continued availability of the dwelling units that
qualified the housing development for a density bonus and other incentives and
concessions, as follows.
         (a)   Very Low- And Low-income Dwelling Units: The continued
affordability of all very low- and low-income-qualifying dwelling units shall
be maintained for fifty five (55) years, or a longer time if required by the
construction or mortgage financing assistance program, mortgage insurance
program, rental subsidy program, or by City policy or ordinance.
         (b)   Moderate-Income Dwelling Units In Common Interest Development:
The continued availability of moderate-income dwelling units in a common
interest development shall be maintained for a minimum of ten (10) years, or a
longer time if required by City policy or ordinance.
         (c)   Dwelling Units For Transitional Foster Youth, Disabled Veterans,
Or Homeless Persons: Dwelling units for transitional foster youth, disabled
veterans, or homeless persons shall be subject to a recorded affordability
restriction of fifty five (55) years and shall be provided at the same
affordability level as very low-income units.
         (d)   Lower-Income Students In A Student Housing Development: The
continued affordability of dwelling units for lower-income students in a
student housing development shall be subject to a recorded affordability
restriction of fifty five (55) years.
      2.   Dwelling Unit Cost Requirements: The rents and owner-occupied costs
charged for the dwelling units in the development that qualify the project for
a density bonus and other incentives and concessions, shall not exceed the
following amounts during the period of continued availability required by this
Paragraph:
         (a)   Lower-Income Dwelling Units: Rents for the lower-income density
bonus dwelling units shall be set at an affordable rent as defined in Health
and Safety Code Section 50053; and
         (b)   Owner-Occupied Dwelling Units: Owner-occupied dwelling units
shall be available at an affordable housing cost as defined in Health and
Safety Code Section 50052.5.
      3.   Occupancy And Resale Of Moderate Income For Sale Dwelling Units: An
applicant shall agree to, and the City shall ensure that, the initial occupant
of all for-sale dwelling units that qualified the applicant for the award of
the density bonus are persons and families of very low-, low-, or moderate-
income, as required, and that the dwelling units offered at an affordable
housing cost, as that cost is defined in Health and Public Safety Code Section
50052.5. The City shall enforce an equity sharing agreement unless it conflicts
with the requirements of another public funding source or law. The following
requirements apply to the equity sharing agreement:
         (a)   Upon resale, the seller of the dwelling unit shall retain the
value of any improvements, the down payment, and the seller's proportionate
share of appreciation.
         (b)   The City shall recapture any initial subsidy and its
proportionate share of appreciation, which shall then be used within five (5)
years for any of the purposes described in Health and Safety Code Section
33334.2(e) that promote home ownership.
            (1)   The City's initial subsidy shall be equal to the fair market
value of the home at the time of initial sale, minus the initial sale price to
the moderate-income household, plus the amount of any down payment assistance
or mortgage assistance. If upon resale the market value is lower than the
initial market value, then the value at the time of the resale shall be used as
the initial market value; and
               The City's proportionate share of appreciation shall be equal to
the ratio of the initial subsidy to the fair market value of the home at the
time of initial sale.
   (F)   Allowed Incentives And Concessions:
      1.   Applicant Request And City Approval:
         (a)   An applicant for a density bonus in compliance with this Section
and Government Code Section 65915(d) may submit a request for the specific
incentives or concessions listed in this Subsection and may request a meeting
with the Community Development Director.
         (b)   The applicant may file a request for incentives or concessions
either before filing an application for City approval of a proposed project or
concurrently with an application for project approval.
      2.   Consideration Of Requested Incentive Or Concession: The City shall
grant the incentive or concession requested by the applicant unless the City
Council makes a written finding, based on substantial evidence, of any the
following:
         (a)   The incentive or concession does not result in identifiable and
actual cost reductions, consistent with Government Code Section 65915(k), to
provide for affordable housing costs, as defined in Health and Safety Code
Section 50052.5, or for rents for the targeted units to be set as specified in
Government Code Section 65915(c).
         (b)   The incentive or concession would have a specific, adverse
impact, as defined in Government Code Section 65589.5(d)(2), upon the public
health or safety or the physical environment or on any real property that is
listed in the California Register of Historical Resources and for which there
is no feasible method to satisfactorily mitigate or avoid the specific, adverse
impact without rendering the development unaffordable to low-income and
moderate-income households.
         (c)   The incentive or concession would be contrary to State or
Federal law.
      3.   Number Of Incentives Or Concessions: The applicant shall receive the
following number of incentives or concessions based on the percentage of
affordable units in the proposed project:
 
Table 4-5   Number of Incentives and Concessions
Number of Incentives/ Very Low-Income Lower-Income Percentage Moderate-Incom e
Concessions           Percentage                              Percentage
1                     5               10                      10
2                     10              20                      20
3                     15              30                      30
                      100             100                     100
4                     (very low, low, (very low, low,         (very low, low,
                      moderate*)      moderate*)              moderate*)
                                                               
* Maximum 20 percent moderate dwelling units.
 
      4.   Types of Incentives. For the purpose of this Subsection, concession
or incentive means any of the following:
         (a)   A reduction in the site development standards of this Zoning
Code (i.e., site coverage limitations, setbacks, on-site open space
requirements, reduced parcel sizes, and/or parking requirements), or a
modification of architectural design requirements that exceed the minimum
building standards approved by the California Building Standards Commission in
compliance with Health and Safety Code Section 18901 et seq., that would
otherwise be required, that results in identifiable and actual cost reductions
to provide for affordable housing costs, as defined in Health and Safety Code
Section 5002.5, or for rents for the targeted units to be set as identified in
this Section. See Subsection
11-4-10(I) (Parking Requirements in Density Bonus Projects) and Subsection
11-4-10(H) (Waivers or Reduction of Development Standards);
         (b)   Approval of mixed-use land uses not otherwise allowed by this
Code in conjunction with the housing development, if nonresidential land uses
will reduce the cost of the housing development, and the nonresidential land
uses are compatible with the housing project and the existing or planned
development in the area where the project will be located;
         (c)   Other regulatory incentives proposed by the applicant or the
City that will result in identifiable and actual cost reductions to provide for
affordable housing costs, as defined in Health and Safety Code Section 50052.5,
or for rents for the targeted units to be set as specified in this Section;
and/or
         (d)   In its sole and absolute discretion, a direct financial
contribution granted by the City Council, including writing-down land cots,
subsidizing the cost of construction, or participating in the cost of
infrastructure.
      5.   Effect Of Incentive Or Concession: The granting of a concession or
incentive shall not be interpreted to require a General Plan amendment, zoning
amendment, study, or discretionary approval.
   (G)   Standards For Affordable Units: All affordable units awarded and
constructed in compliance with the provisions established in the Section shall
meet the following requirements:
      1.   Concurrency: Affordable units shall be built concurrently with
market rate units unless the City and the applicant agree within the density
bonus housing agreement to an alternative schedule for development.
      2.   Location: Affordable units shall be built on-site wherever possible
and, where practical, shall be dispersed within the housing development.
      3.   Unit Size: The average number of bedrooms of the affordable units
shall be equivalent or greater to the bedroom mix of the housing development's
other units.
      4.   Design: The design and appearance of the affordable units shall be
compatible with the design of the housing development as a whole.
      5.   Development Standards: Housing developments shall comply with all
applicable development standards, except those that may be modified as
permitted by this Section.
      6.   Linked Sites: Circumstances may arise in which the public interest
would be served by allowing some or all of the affordable units associated with
one housing development to be produced and operated at an alternative
development site. If the developer and the City agree to allow the production
and operation of affordable units at an alternative site, the resulting linked
developments shall be considered a single housing development for the purposes
of this Section.
   (H)   Donations Of Land: An applicant shall be eligible for the increased
density bonus for land donation provided by this Section if all the following
conditions established in this Subsection are met.
      1.   Date Of Transfer: The applicant shall donate and transfer the land
no later than the date of approval of the final subdivision map, parcel map, or
residential development application;
      2.   Developable Acreage: The developable acreage of the land being
transferred shall be sufficient to permit construction of units affordable to
very low-income households in an amount not less than ten percent (10%) of the
number of residential units in the proposed development;
      3.   Minimum Size: The transferred land shall have an area sufficient to
permit development of at least forty (40) units;
      4.   Appropriate Regulations And Infrastructure: The transferred land
shall have the appropriate General Plan land use designation, zoning, and
development standards to make the development of affordable units feasible, and
it shall have existing or planned public facilities, and infrastructure that
are adequate to support the development;
      5.   Entitlements: No later than the date of approval of the final
subdivision map, parcel map, or residential development application, the
transferred land shall have all of the permits and approvals, other than
building permits, necessary for the development of the very low-income housing
units on the transferred land;
      6.   Deed Restriction: The transferred land and the affordable units
shall be subject to a deed restriction ensuring continued affordability of the
units, in compliance with Subsection 11-4-10(D) (Continued Affordability). The
restriction shall be recorded on the property at the time of dedication;
      7.   Recipient: The land shall be transferred to the City or to a housing
developer approved by the City. The City may require the applicant to identify
and transfer the land to the developer;
      8.   Location: The transferred land shall be within the boundary of the
proposed development or, if the City agrees, within one-quarter-mile of the
boundary of the proposed development; and
      9.   Funding: A proposed source of funding for the very low-income units
shall be identified not later than the date of approval of the final
subdivision map, parcel map, or residential development application.
   (I)   Waivers Or Reduction Of Development Standards:
      1.   Eligibility: An applicant who applies for a density bonus may also
request a waiver or reduction of any development standard that would physically
prevent the construction of the development project.
      2.   Development Standards Defined:
         (a)   Development standards include any adopted City standard or
regulation related to the physical location or type of construction, including
but not limited to, structure height, setbacks, parking, floor area ratio, and
the placement of public works improvements.
         (b)   As defined in this Subsection, development standards do not
include land use regulations, permitting procedures, inclusionary housing
requirements, or development impact fees.
      3.   Number Of Waivers Or Reductions:
         (a)   There shall be no limit to the number of waivers or reductions
available to an applicant.
         (b)   The approval of waivers or reductions shall neither reduce nor
increase the number of incentives available to a project established in
Subsection
11-4-10(F) (Allowed Incentives and Concessions).
      4.   Justification Of Approval: The City shall approve the requested
waiver or reduction if the applicant can demonstrate that it is physically
impossible to construct the project without the waiver or reduction.
      5.   Provisions Of Waivers Or Reductions: The City shall approve the
requested waiver or reduction, unless the City makes a written finding, based
upon substantial evidence, of either of the following:
         (a)   The waiver or reduction would have a specific adverse impact, as
defined in Government Code Section 65589.5(d)(2), upon public health and safety
or the physical environment, or on any real property that is listed in the
California Register of Historical Resources, and there is no feasible method to
satisfactorily mitigate or avoid the specific adverse impact without rendering
the development unaffordable to low-income and moderate-income households.
         (b)   The waiver or reduction would have an adverse impact on real
property that is listed in the California Register of Historical Resources.
         (c)   A housing development that receives a waiver from any maximum
controls on density pursuant to Section
11-4-10(C) shall not be eligible for, and shall not receive, a waiver or
reduction of development standards pursuant to this subdivision, other than as
expressly granted under Section
11-4-10(C).
         (d)   The waiver or reduction is contrary to State or Federal law.
   (J)   Parking Requirements In Density Bonus Projects:
      1.   Applicability: This Section applies to a development that meets the
requirements of subsection (E) (Requirements), and subsection (D) (Continued
Affordability), but only at the request of the applicant. An applicant may
request additional parking incentives or concessions beyond those provided in
this Section in compliance with subsection (F) (Allowed Incentives and
Concessions), above, through either a modification, variance, or other
modification process approved by the Community Development Director. A request
in compliance with this Subsection shall neither reduce nor increase the number
of incentives or concessions to which the applicant is entitled as established
in subsection (F) (Allowed Incentives and Concessions).
      2.   Maximum Parking Requirements: Upon the request of the developer, the
City shall not require more than the following parking ratios for a density
bonus project, inclusive of parking for persons with disabilities and guest
parking set forth in Government Code Section 65915(p):
 
Table 4-6   Maximum Parking Requirements
Dwelling Type/Number of Bedrooms Parking Spaces
Studio                           1
1 Bedroom                        1
2 Bedroom                        1.5
3 Bedroom                        1.5
4+ Bedroom                       2.5
 
      3.   Special Parking Requirement: At the request of the applicant, the
City shall allow reduced parking ratios (inclusive of parking for persons with
disabilities and guest parking) for the following projects types:
Table 4-7 Maximum Parking Requirements
Project Type Parking Spaces (spaces per unit)
Table 4-7 Maximum Parking Requirements
Project Type                                   Parking Spaces (spaces per unit)
Rental/for sale projects with at least 11
percent very low-income or 20 percent lower-   0.5
income units, within 1/2 mile of accessible
(1) major transit stop.
Rental projects 100 percent affordable to
lower-income, within 1/2 mile of accessible    0
(1) major transit stop.
Rental senior (3) projects 100 percent
affordable to lower-income, either with        0
paratransit service or within 1/2-half mile of
an accessible (1) bus route (2).
Rental special needs projects 100 percent
affordable to lower-income households, either  0
with paratransit service or within 1/2-half
mile of accessible (1) bus route (2).
Rental supportive housing developments 100%    0
percent affordable to lower income households
(1)   Access to major transit stops shall be unobstructed and without natural
or constructed impediments. In compliance with Government Code Section 65915,
"natural or constructed impediments" includes, but is not limited to, freeways,
rivers, mountains, and bodies of water, but does not include residential
structures, shopping centers, parking lots, or rails used for transit.
(2)   Bus routes shall be fixed and operate at least eight times per day.
(3)   62 years of age or older in compliance in Civil Code Sections 51.2 and
51.3.
 
      4.   Parking Study: If the City, or an independent consultant, has
conducted an area-wide or citywide parking study in the last seven (7) years,
then the City may impose a higher vehicular parking ratio based upon
substantial evidence found in the parking study, that includes, but is not
limited to, an analysis of parking availability, differing levels of transit
access, walkability access to transit services, the potential for shared
parking, the effect of parking requirements on the cost of market-rate and
subsidized developments, and the lower rates of car ownership for low-income
and very low-income individuals, including seniors and special needs
individuals. The City shall pay the costs of any new study. The City shall make
findings, based on a parking study completed in conformity with this Paragraph,
supporting the need for the higher parking ratio.
      5.   Location Of Parking: For purposes of this Subsection, a development
may provide on-site parking through tandem parking or uncovered parking, but
not through on-street parking.
      6.   Parking Space Calculation: If the total number of parking spaces
required for a development is other than a whole number, the number shall be
rounded up to the next whole number.
   (K)   Housing With Childcare Facilities:
      1.   Housing Developments Childcare Facilities: When an applicant
proposes to construct a housing development that complies with the resident and
project size requirements of subsection (E) (Requirements) of this Section and
includes as part of that development a childcare facility that will be located
on the site of, as part of, or adjacent to the housing development, the City
shall grant either an additional density bonus or an additional incentive or
concession in accordance with Government Code Section 65915(h).
         (a)   Bonuses And Incentives: The City shall grant a housing
development that includes a childcare facility in compliance with this
subsection one of the following:
            (1)   An additional density bonus that is an amount of floor area
in square feet of residential space that is equal to or greater than the floor
area of the childcare facility; or
            (2)   An additional incentive or concession that contributes
significantly to the economic feasibility of the construction of the childcare
facility.
         (b)   (1)   Determination Of Adequate Childcare Facilities: The City
shall not be required to provide a density bonus or concession for a childcare
facility in compliance with this Subsection if it finds, based upon substantial
evidence, that the community has adequate childcare facilities.
            (2)   Commercial Developments Child Care Facilities: An applicant
for a commercial development project, containing at least fifty thousand
(50,000) square feet of floor area, may be granted a density bonus when that
applicant agrees to set aside at least two thousand (2,000) square feet of
interior floor area and three thousand (3,000) outdoor square footage to be
used for a childcare facility, in compliance with Government Code Section
65917.5.
         (c)   Bonuses And Incentives: The City shall grant a commercial
development that includes a childcare facility in compliance with this
subsection one of the following:
            (1)   A maximum of five (5) square feet of floor area for each one
square foot of floor area contained in the childcare facility located in an
existing childcare facility; or
            (2)   A maximum of ten (10) square feet of floor area for each one
square foot of floor area contained in the childcare facility located in a new
childcare facility.
         (d)   Qualifications Requirements:
            (1)   For purposes of calculating the allowable density bonus under
this Subsection, both the total area contained within the exterior walls of the
childcare facility and all outdoor areas devoted to the use of the facility in
compliance with applicable State childcare licensing requirements shall be
considered.
            (2)   The childcare facility shall be of a sufficient size to
comply with all applicable State licensing requirements to accommodate at least
forty (40) children.
            (3)   This facility may be located either on the project site or
may be located off-site as agreed upon by the applicant and the City.
            (4)   If the childcare facility is not located on the site of the
development project, the City shall determine whether the location of the
facility is appropriate and whether it complies with the purpose and intent of
this Section.
            (5)   The granting of a density bonus shall not preclude the City
from imposing necessary conditions on the development project or on the
additional square footage in compliance with Government Code Section 65917.5.
   (L)   Application And Review:
      1.   Application: An application for a density bonus or donation of land
for housing shall be filed with any related entitlement applications and
processed in compliance with this section. If desired, a request for specific
incentives or concessions, listed in subsection (E) (Allowed Incentives and
Concessions), may be filed in compliance with Government Code Section 65915.
      2.   Target income of affordable housing units and proposals for ensuring
affordability.
      3.   For any requested waiver of a development standard, the applicant
shall provide evidence that the development standard for which the waiver is
requested will have the effect of physically precluding the construction of the
residential project with the density bonus incentives requested.
      4.   If a density bonus or concession is requested for a land donation,
the application shall show the location of the land to be donated provide proof
of site control, and provide evidence that all of the requirements and each of
the findings included in Government Code Section 65915(g) can be made.
      5.   If a density bonus or concession is requested for a childcare
facility, the application shall show the location and square footage of the
childcare facilities and provide evidence that all of the requirements and each
of the findings included in Government Code Section 65915(h) can be made.
      6.   Determination: Within thirty (30) days of filing the application,
the Community Development Director shall notify the applicant in writing
whether the application is complete and provide the applicant a determination
as to:
         (a)   The amount of the density bonus for which the project is
eligible;
         (b)   The parking ratio for which the project is eligible, if
requested; and
         (c)   Whether the applicant has provided enough information for the
City to make a determination as to the requested incentives or concessions, if
incentives or concessions are requested.
   (M)   Density Bonus Housing Agreement:
      1.   Agreement Required: An applicant requesting a density bonus shall
agree to enter into a density bonus agreement (referred to as the "agreement")
with the City in the City's standard form of agreement.
      2.   Agreement Provisions:
         (a)   Project Information: The agreement shall include at least the
following information about the project:
            (1)   The total number of dwelling units approved for the housing
development, including the number of designated dwelling units;
            (2)   A description of the household income group to be
accommodated by the housing development, and the standards and methodology for
determining the corresponding affordable rent or affordable sales price and
housing cost consistent with HUD Guidelines;
            (3)   The marketing plan for the affordable dwelling units;
            (4)   The location, size (square feet), and number of bedrooms of
the designated dwelling units;
            (5)   Tenure of the use restrictions for designated dwelling units
of the time periods required by subsection (D) (Continued Affordability);
            (6)   A schedule for completion and occupancy of the designated
dwelling units;
            (7)   A description of the additional incentives and concessions
being provided by the City;
            (8)   A description of the remedies for breach of the agreement by
the owners, developers, and/or successors-in-interest of the project; and
            (9)   Other provisions to ensure successful implementation and
compliance with this Section.
         (b)   Minimum Requirements: The agreement shall provide, at minimum,
that:
            (1)   The developer shall give the City the continuing right-of-
first-refusal to lease or purchase any or all the designated dwelling units at
the appraised value;
            (2)   The deeds to the designated dwelling units shall contain a
covenant stating that the developer or successors-in-interest shall not assign,
lease, rent, sell, sublet, or otherwise transfer any interests for designated
units without the written approval of the City;
            (3)   When providing the written approval, the City shall confirm
that the price (rent or sale) of the designated dwelling unit is consistent
with the limits established for low- and very low-income households, as
published by HUD;
The City shall have the authority to enter into other agreements with the
developer, or purchasers of the designated dwelling units, to ensure that the
required dwelling units are continuously occupied by eligible households;
            (4)   Applicable deed restrictions, in a form satisfactory to the
City Attorney, shall contain provisions for the enforcement of owner or
developer compliance. Any default or failure to comply may result in
foreclosure, specific performance, or withdrawal of the Certificate of
Occupancy;
            (5)   In any action taken to enforce compliance with the deed
restrictions, the City Attorney shall, if compliance is ordered by a court of
competent jurisdiction, take all action that may be allowed by law to recover
all the City's costs of action including legal services; and
            (6)   Compliance with the agreement will be monitored and enforced
in compliance with the measures included in the agreement.
      3.   Conditions By Project Type:
         (a)   For-Sale Housing: In the case of a for-sale housing development,
the agreement shall provide for the following conditions governing the initial
sale and use of designated dwelling units during the applicable restriction
period:
            (1)   Designated dwelling units shall be owner-occupied by eligible
households, or by qualified residents in the case of senior housing; and
            (2)   The initial purchaser of each designated dwelling unit shall
execute an instrument or agreement approved by the City which:
               A.   Restricts the sale of the unit in compliance with this
Section, or other applicable City policy or ordinance, during the applicable
use restriction period;
               B.   Contains provisions as the City may require ensuring
continued compliance with this Section and State law; and
               C.   Shall be recorded against the parcel containing the
designated dwelling unit.
         (b)   Rental Housing: In the case of a rental housing development, the
agreement shall provide for the following conditions governing the use of
designated dwelling units during the applicable restriction period:
            (1)   The rules and procedures for qualifying tenants, establishing
affordable rent, filling vacancies, and maintaining the designated dwelling
units for qualified tenants;
            (2)   Provisions requiring owners to annually verify tenant incomes
and maintain books and records to demonstrate compliance with this Section;
            (3)   Provisions requiring owners to submit an annual report to the
City, which includes the name, address, and income of each person occupying the
designated dwelling units, and which identifies the bedroom size and monthly
rent or cost of each unit; and
            (4)   The applicable use restriction period shall comply with the
time limits for continued availability in subsection (D) (Continued
Affordability).
         (c)   Moderate-Income Housing: In the case of affordable units for
moderate-income households, the density bonus housing agreement shall provide
for the following requirements:
            (1)   The initial sale of each affordable unit shall be to a
household that meets the income requirement for the affordable unit.
            (2)   When the initial purchaser sells the unit, the initial
purchaser shall retain the value of any improvements, the down payment and the
value of the unit's appreciation, less the City's share of the appreciation.
            (3)   When the initial purchaser sells the unit, the City shall
receive a share of the unit's appreciation equal to the percentage by which the
initial sale price to the moderate-income household was less than the fair
market value of the home at the time of initial sale. The City shall use this
share of appreciation for any of the purposes established in Health and Safety
Code Section 33334.2(e).
         (d)   Childcare Facility: In the case of childcare facilities for
which a density bonus or additional incentive is being granted, the density
bonus housing agreement shall provide for the following requirements:
            (1)   Operating duration requirements for the childcare facility,
such that the childcare facility shall remain in operation for as long as or
longer than the period of time during which the density bonus units are
required to remain affordable.
            (2)   Provisions requiring that for children who attend the
childcare facility, the percentage of children from the income group associated
with the development's affordable units shall be equal to or greater than the
minimum percentage of affordable units that shall be provided for that income
group to receive a density to the requirements of this Subsection.
      4.   Agreement Execution:
         (a)   Following the approval of the agreement, and execution of the
agreement by all parties, the City shall record the completed agreement on the
parcels designated for the construction of designated dwelling units.
         (b)   The approval of the agreement shall take place at the same time
as the approval of any required final map or, where a map is not being
processed before the issuance of building permits for the project. Recordation
of the agreement shall take place as soon as possible after the approval of any
required final map or, where a map is not being processed before the issuance
of any building permit for the project.
         (c)   The agreement shall be binding on all future owners, developers,
and/or successors-in-interest. (Ord. 2024-6, 6-17-2024)
11-4-11: ADULT USE CANNABIS:
   (A)   Purpose:
      1.   The purpose of this chapter is to protect the health, safety, and
welfare of the residents of the city as allowed by and in accordance with state
law and regulations.
   (B)   Commercial Cannabis Activities Prohibited:
      1.   Commercial Cannabis uses and activities are prohibited in the City
of Selma, and no commercial cannabis uses shall operate, locates, or otherwise
be permitted or established within the City, even if located within or
associated with an otherwise permitted use, and neither the City Council nor
city staff shall approve any use, interpretation, permit, license certificate
of occupancy, Zoning Code or General Plan amendment allowing the operation and/
or establishment of commercial cannabis uses.
   (C)   Personal Cannabis Cultivation:
      1.   Cultivation of cannabis indoors for personal consumption shall be
permitted by first obtaining a Cannabis Cultivation Permit from the Community
development Director or their designee. Personal cultivation may be permitted
within a fully enclosed and secure structure by persons twenty-one (21) years
of age or older, which shall conform to state law and the following minimum
standards. Cannabis plants shall be cultivated by a person or primary caregiver
exclusively for personal use only and shall not be donated, sold, distributed,
transported, or given to any other person or entity. No person shall cultivate
more cannabis plants indoors than is expressly authorized by State Law.
      2.   Outdoor cannabis cultivation by any person, including primary
caregivers, qualified patients, and dispensaries, for any purpose including
medical or non-medical (recreational) purposes is prohibited in all zoning
districts within the City of Selma.
      3.   Cultivation Permit: Any person seeking a permit to cultivate
cannabis shall complete an application for a personal cultivation permit on a
form provided by the City of Selma which shall contain, but is not limited to,
the following:
         (a)   The physical site address of the premises where the cannabis
will be cultivated.
         (b)   The name of each person owning, leasing, occupying, or having
charge of the premises where the cannabis will be cultivated and, in the event
that the person owning said parcel is not the person applying for a cultivation
permit, then a signed, notarized, consent to the cultivation of cannabis at the
premises on a form provided by the City of Selma.
         (c)   A signed consent form from the applicant(s) and/or property
owner authorizing city staff, including the Selma Fire Department and the Selma
Police Department, to conduct an inspection of the area used for the
cultivation of cannabis upon request.
         (d)   Prior to the issuance of a cultivation permit pursuant to this
chapter, the structure wherein the cannabis will be cultivated must be
reviewed, inspected and approved by the Community Development Director or his
or her designee.
         (e)   A personal cannabis cultivation permit shall be valid for no
more than one year.
         (f)   A personal cannabis cultivation permit may only be renewed upon
an application for renewal to the Community Development Director or his or her
designee on a form provided by the City of Selma.
         (g)   The City Council may establish or amend, by resolution, a fee or
fees required to be paid upon the filing of an application for a permit, or
renewal thereof, as provided for in this chapter, which shall not exceed the
reasonable cost of administering this chapter.
         (h)   The Community Development Director, or his or her designee, may
deny any application for a personal cannabis cultivation permit, or extension
thereof, if he or she finds, in his or her discretion, based on the facts
available that the issuance of such permit, or extension thereof, does not meet
the requirements of this chapter and would be detrimental to the public health,
safety or welfare.
      4.   Personal Cultivation- Residential Structure: The indoor personal
cultivation of cannabis in a residential zone within a residential structure
shall not exceed an area of fifty (50) square feet, unless a larger area is
required to cultivate a greater quantity as allowed either by state law.
         (a)   Any person seeking to cultivate cannabis pursuant to this
chapter in a residential structure shall first obtain approval of the
residential structure and a cultivation permit from the Community Development
Director or their designee. The Community Development Director may establish
any procedures or forms necessary for the processing of the approval/
cultivation permit described in this chapter.
         (b)   The residential structure to be used for marijuana cultivation
shall conform to this code, building standards of the city of Selma including
all adopted codes, and any requirements deemed necessary by the Community
Development Director or his or her designee including, but not limited to, the
following minimum standards:
            (1)   Indoor grow lights in a residential structure shall not
exceed one thousand (1,000) watts or other limit as determined by the City and
shall comply with the building regulations of the City of Selma and all adopted
codes including, but not limited to, the California building and electrical
codes and shall be inspected and approved by the fire chief and/or building
inspector.
            (2)   Indoor cultivation within a residential structure shall not
take place in a kitchen, bathroom, bedroom, or common area of the residence and
shall be secured by one or more lockable doors.
            (3)   Any cultivation within a residential structure shall have a
ventilation system separate from the remaining area of the residential
structure with a filtration system that shall prevent cannabis plant odors from
exiting the interior of the cultivation area or the residential structure. Said
ventilation system shall comply with the building regulations of the City of
Selma and adopted codes including, but not limited to, the applicable sections
of the California building code related to mechanical ventilation.
            (4)   The use of generators or any other internal combustion engine
or use of any combustible products including, without limitation to, gasoline,
diesel fuel, butane, propane, or natural gas within the residential structure
shall be prohibited.
      5.   Personal Cultivation - Detached Structure: Any person seeking to
cultivate cannabis pursuant to this chapter in a detached structure shall first
obtain approval of the detached structure and a personal cultivation permit
from the Community Development Director or their designee. The Community
Development Director may establish any procedures or forms necessary for the
processing of the approval/cultivation permit described in this chapter.
         (a)   The detached structure shall conform to this code, building
standards of the City of Selma including all adopted codes, and any
requirements deemed necessary by the Community Development Director or his or
her designee including, but not limited to, the following minimum standards:
            (1)   The detached structure shall be attached to a slab foundation
or equivalent base by bolts or similar attachments.
            (2)   The walls and roofs of the detached structure must be
constructed of two inch by four inch (2"x4") or larger material. The frame of
the structure must be overlaid with at least five-eighths inch (5/8") exterior
plywood or other suitable material and shall be covered with materials similar
to or conforming with the materials used on surrounding structures.
            (3)   The detached structure shall be accessible by one or more
lockable exterior grade doors.
            (4)   The total area of the detached structure shall not exceed one
hundred (100) square feet unless a larger area is required to cultivate a
greater quality of cannabis set forth in state law.
            (5)   Indoor grow lights shall not exceed a maximum wattage to be
determined by the Community Development Director or their designee. Electricity
to the building must be provided by suitable connection as determined by the
Community Development Director. Use of portable generators, portable heaters,
or combustible products including, but not limited to, gasoline, diesel fuel,
propane, butane, or natural gas, unless expressly permitted by the Community
Development Director or his or her designee, are strictly prohibited. The
detached secure structure shall have a ventilation and filtration system
installed to prevent odors from cannabis plants from exiting the interior of
the building and shall comply with the building regulations of the City of
Selma and all adopted codes, including, but not limited to, applicable
California building code sections related to mechanical ventilation.
            (6)   The secured structure shall be located within the rear yard
of any premises and must be set back at least ten feet (10') from any building,
pool, or property line. If any greater setback is required by any other
provision of this code or any other code, the greater setback distance shall
apply.
            (7)   The area surrounding the secured structure must be enclosed
by a solid fence at least six feet (6') in height and an adequate mechanical or
electronic security system approved by the Community Development Director or
their designee or the chief of police must be installed in and around the
detached structure.
            (8)   The detached structure shall be inspected and approved by the
fire chief and/or building inspector.
      6.   Violation Of Permit: If any requirement relating to cultivation, or
terms of any permit issued for personal cultivation in accordance with this
chapter is determined by any city officer or official to have been violated,
that officer or official may immediately revoke the permit and, if deemed
necessary to correct or prevent any such or any further violation of either
this chapter or the terms of any permit issued thereunder, such officer or
official of the city may immediately confiscate or destroy any growing
cannabis, harvested or processed cannabis or any cannabis products. The city
officer or official shall issue a written order revoking the permit as soon as
practicable upon detecting the violation of this chapter or of any permit
leading to the revocation. Any confiscation or destruction of any cannabis or
cannabis products shall be final and conclusive, and not subject to an appeal
insofar as the confiscation or destruction of cannabis or cannabis products
occurs in connection with the action taken by the officer or official in
revoking the permit. The revocation of the permit shall, however, be subject to
an appeal as provided in this chapter.
      7.   Appeal: Any applicant for or holder of a permit issued pursuant to
the provisions of this chapter, which application or permit has been denied,
revoked, or suspended by order of the chief of police, Community Development
Director, or other officer or official of the city shall have the right to
appeal such order or denial, revocation or suspension to the city council
within twenty (20) days after the date on which such order is hand delivered to
the applicant or permittee, or deposited in the United States mail, postage
prepaid, addressed to the applicant or permittee.
         (a)   An appeal shall be made by filing a notice of appeal with the
city clerk of the City of Selma within the twenty (20) day period set forth in
this section. The filing of such appeal shall not suspend the order of denial,
revocation or suspension of said permit. The city council shall hear the appeal
within a reasonable time, not exceeding ninety (90) days, from and after the
date of receipt of the notice of appeal by the city clerk. The city council
shall conduct a public hearing, written notice of the time and place thereof
being mailed to the applicant or permittee not less than ten (10) days prior to
said hearing, unless timely notice be waived by the applicant or permittee. The
rules of evidence shall not apply to the hearing and the applicant or permittee
shall have the right to the assistance of counsel and the reasonable
presentation of witnesses and evidence. The council shall make an order
affirming, overruling or modifying the denial, revocation or suspension of such
permit within sixty (60) days from and after the date the hearing on said
appeal is concluded. The city council decision shall be limited to addressing
whether a permit that has been revoked, denied or suspended shall or shall not
be reinstated or issued. Any action taken by the chief of police, Community
Development Director or other officer or official of the city in connection
with the denial, revocation of or suspension of any permit other than the order
revoking, denying or suspending the permit, shall be final, conclusive, and
unreviewable. The decision of the city council shall be the final decision of
the city. Any person who has a permit issued under this chapter revoked shall
be precluded from holding or being issued any such permit for a period of one
year from the date of the order revoking the permit or the city council's
decision upholding the revocation, whichever is later.
            (1)   Penalty: Any violation of any of the provisions of this
chapter shall be a misdemeanor and constitutes a public nuisance and shall be
enforced and/or abated in accordance with title I, chapter 4 of this code or
other applicable section of this code.
         (b)   Nonexclusive: Nothing in this chapter is intended to be an
exclusive penalty or remedy. Nothing in this chapter is intended to authorize
the use, possession, sale, distribution or cultivation of marijuana in
violation of state or federal law.
   (D)   Public Nuisance:
      1.   Any violation of any of the provisions of this chapter shall be a
misdemeanor and constitute a public nuisance and shall be enforced and/or
abated in accordance with title I, chapter 4 of this code or other applicable
section of this code. Any use, structure, or property that is altered,
enlarged, erected, established, maintained, moved, or operated contrary to the
provisions of this chapter, is hereby declared to be unlawful and a public
nuisance and may be abated by the City through civil, criminal, and/or
administrative proceedings by means of a restraining order, preliminary or
permanent injunction, or in any other manner provided by law for the abatement
of such nuisances.
      2.   Any person who violates this section shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and be punished in accordance with applicable laws. (Ord. 2024-6,
6-17-2024)
11-4-12: BED AND BREAKFAST INN:
   (A)   Purpose:
      1.   The purpose of this chapter is to establish regulations for the
location, use, character, parking, signing and processing of applications for
bed and breakfast inns and facilities within the City of Selma.
   (B)   Definitions:
      BED AND BREAKFAST INN: A residential building containing a specified
number of guestrooms occupied by a specific number of persons, which provides
living units and meals for transient guests, and which is managed and occupied
by the owner of the property in residential zones or by a manager residing on
the property in nonresidential zones.
   (C)   Permits Requirements:
      1.   Applications for bed and breakfast inns meeting the development
standards below shall be subject to the approval of a site plan review permit
pursuant to
11-6-5 (Site Plan Review). Applications for bed and breakfast inns shall be
subject to approval of a conditional use permit pursuant to section
11-6-7 (Conditional Use Permit). Bed and breakfast inns shall be subject to any
such condition as deemed appropriate by the planning commission to further the
purposes of this section.
   (D)   Development Standards:
      1.   The following development standards shall apply to bed and breakfast
inns subject to a site plan review permit:
         (a)   All standards of the underlying zoning district including, but
not limited to, height, lot and yard requirements, and lot coverage shall
apply;
         (b)   One additional off-street parking space shall be provided for
each room available for lodging purposes;
         (c)   One additional off-street parking space shall be provided for
each room available for lodging purposes;
         (d)   The owner of the facility shall reside on site;
         (e)   Bed and breakfast inns shall be subject to all applicable
building, fire, health and safety codes;
         (f)   No person who is paying rent in exchange for lodging shall
occupy a guest room on the premises for more than fourteen (14) consecutive
nights;
         (g)   The scale and appearance of the bed and breakfast facility shall
remain primarily residential in character; all buildings and site improvements
shall be similar to and compatible in design with the surrounding neighborhood
and adjacent residences; and
         (h)   Bed and breakfast facilities shall be operated by the permanent
occupants of the facility. No more than one person not residing at the facility
shall be employed in the operation of the facility.
      2.   The following standards shall apply to bed and breakfast inns
subject to a conditional use permit:
         (a)   All of the standards set forth in subsection (D)1 with the
exception of subsections (D)1(c) and (D)1(g).
         (b)   A bed and breakfast inn shall consist of no more than two (2)
residential dwellings on a maximum of two (2) adjacent parcels. A bed and
breakfast inn consisting of more than one dwelling or parcel shall be
considered a single facility. Adjacent parcels shall be adjoining contiguous
parcels that are not separated by a public-right-of-way.
         (c)   The owner of the bed and breakfast inn shall reside at the
facility. If more than one person residing off the facility is employed, one
additional off-street parking space for every two (2) employees shall be
provided. (Ord. 2024-6, 6-17-2024)
CHAPTER 5
NONCONFORMITIES
SECTION:
11-5-1: General Purpose And Provisions
11-5-2: Nonconforming Parcels
11-5-3: Nonconforming Structures
11-5-4: Nonconforming Uses
11-5-5: Extension Of Nonconforming Uses Or Structures
11-5-1: GENERAL PURPOSE AND PROVISIONS:
This Chapter provides regulations for nonconforming land uses, structures, and
parcels that were lawful before the adoption, or amendment of this Zoning Code,
but which would be prohibited, regulated, or restricted differently under the
current terms of this Zoning Code or future amendments.
It is the intent of this Chapter to discourage the long-term continuance of
nonconformities, providing for their eventual elimination, while allowing them
to exist under the limited conditions established in this Chapter. (Ord. 2024-
6, 6-17-2024)
11-5-2: NONCONFORMING PARCELS:
   (A)   Compliance: A nonconforming parcel that does not comply with the
applicable area, parcel depth, or width requirements of this Zoning Code shall
be considered a legal building site if it meets at least one of the following
criteria, as documented to the satisfaction of the Director by evidence
furnished by the applicant.
      1.   Approved Subdivision: The parcel was created by a recorded
subdivision;
      2.   Individual Parcel Legally Created By Deed: The parcel is under one
ownership and of record, and was legally created by a recorded deed before the
effective date of this Zoning Ordinance or the zoning amendment that made the
parcel nonconforming;
      3.   Variance Or Lot Line Adjustment: The parcel was approved through the
Variance procedure or resulted from a lot line adjustment; or
      4.   Partial Government Acquisition: The parcel was created in compliance
with the provisions of this Zoning Code but was made nonconforming when a
portion was acquired by a governmental entity so that the parcel size is
decreased not more than twenty percent (20%) and the yard facing a public
right-of-way was decreased not more than fifty percent (50%).
   (B)   Increase Of Nonconformity: No subdivision shall be approved that would
increase the nonconformity of an existing parcel or any nonconforming use on
the parcel. (Ord. 2024-6, 6-17-2024)
11-5-3: NONCONFORMING STRUCTURES:
   (A)   A structure which is nonconforming solely by reason that it does not
conform with one or more height, yard or area regulations shall, for the
purposes of this Section be deemed to be a conforming structure.
   (B)   No nonconforming structure shall be altered or enlarged, except as
follows:
      1.   Where required by this Code or Statute, or to make the structure
conform.
      2.   Any structure which is nonconforming solely by reason of yard or
height requirements may be structurally altered or enlarged; provided, that all
alterations or additions shall comply with the yard and height requirements of
the zone; and further provided, that the entire structure so altered or
enlarged complies with all other requirements of the title other than yard and
height.
      3.   If a nonconforming structure is removed, every future use of such
premises shall be in conformity with the provisions of this title.
      4.   A nonconforming structure in a C or M Zone may remain, subject to
Section
11-5-3.
      5.   In all R Zones every nonconforming structure, other than a
residential structure, designed or intended for use not permitted in such zone
shall be completely removed or altered to structurally conform to the uses
permitted in such zone within a time determined by the Commission, provided:
         (a)   Such time for removal or alteration may not be fixed for a date
before the expiration of the normal life of the building or structure as found
by the Commission.
         (b)   In no event may the normal life of the structure be fixed at
less than forty (40) years from its original construction.
         (c)   No such order shall require the removal or alteration of the
structure sooner than ten (10) years from the time such order is made.
         (d)   Within ten (10) days after the making of such order, the
Commission shall give notice thereof to the owner of record of the structure by
causing a copy of the order to be personally served on the owner or mailed to
the owner by registered or certified mail addressed to their residence, or if
their residence is unknown, then to the address as shown by the records of the
Tax Collector of the City, and by causing a copy of the order to be recorded
with of the County Recorder.
         (e)   Not less than sixty (60) days and not more than ninety (90) days
before the time fixed for removal or alteration, the officer in charge of
issuance of use permits shall give the owner of record of such structure
written notice thereof in the manner above mentioned and shall give the
occupants of such structure notice thereof by leaving with any of the occupants
of said structure or posting on said structure in a conspicuous place, such
notice.
         (f)   Such notice may be given after the time so fixed, but in no case
shall such a structure be required to be so removed or altered without at least
sixty (60) days' notice being given.
      6.   Proceedings for determination of time for removal or alteration of
such nonconforming structures in R Zones, as mentioned in subsection
11-5-3(F), above, may be initiated and shall be set for hearing, noticed, heard
and determined in substantially the same manner as provided in the following
provisions relating to amendments; provided, that all references therein to
amendments shall be deemed to refer to the proceedings relating to such
determination as stated in Section
11-7-7. The provisions are as follows: Section
11-7-7(B); Section
11-7-7(D); Section
11-7-7(E); subsections
11-5-4(B), (C), (D) and (F).
      7.   All decisions of the Commission in proceedings for such
determination may be appealed and reviewed in substantially the same manner as
provided in the following named provisions relating to appeals from decisions
of the Board of Zoning Adjustment; provided, that all references therein to the
Board of Zoning Adjustment shall be deemed to refer to the Commission. The
provisions are as follows: Section
11-23-7; subsections 11-23-8(A) and (B). (Ord. 533, 6-5-61; amd. Ord. 2024-6,
6-17-2024)
11-5-4: NONCONFORMING USES:
   (A)   Nonconforming Use Continuation: The nonconforming use of a structure
existing at the time this title became effective may be continued, provided:
      1.   The nonconforming use of a structure may be expanded or extended
throughout the structure. A nonconforming use of a nonconforming structure may
be changed to another use of the same or more restricted classification.
      2.   Conforming Structures: A nonconforming use of a conforming structure
shall not be expanded or extended into any other portion of the conforming
structure, and if such nonconforming use is discontinued, any future use of
such structure shall be in conformity with the provisions of this title.
   (B)   Nonconforming Use Discontinuation: Notwithstanding any other provision
of this Chapter, a use which is one which becomes nonconforming by virtue of an
amendment of this title, change in the use or otherwise, for failure or lack of
approval of a required permit or site plan review, shall be discontinued within
two (2) years of the date the use becomes nonconforming or upon a date provided
for by general law, whichever is earlier. The nonconforming use shall cease to
exist if the required permits and/or site plan reviews are not obtained within
two (2) years of the date the use becomes nonconforming. (Ord. 2024-6, 6-17-
2024)
11-5-5: EXTENSION OF NONCONFORMING USES OR STRUCTURES:
   (A)   Nonconforming Structures And Uses:
      1.   Subject to all other regulations of this Chapter, a nonconforming
structure destroyed to the extent of not more than fifty percent (50%) of the
permitted structure, as determined by the Building Official, by fire, explosion
or other casualty or by act of God, or the public enemy, may be restored and
the occupancy or use of the structure or part thereof which existed at the time
of such partial destruction may be continued. The time for removal or
alteration of the restored structure as mentioned in subsection 11-19-1(D)
shall nevertheless be the same as if such structure had not been thus restored.
      2.   If a nonconforming structure is so destroyed to an extent of more
than fifty percent (50%) of the permitted structure, as determined by the
Building Official, of its reasonable value, the same may not be restored, and
may not be occupied and used, except in conformity with this title.
   (B)   Nonconforming Use Of Land:
      1.   The nonconforming use of land where no structure (excepting fences)
thereon is employed in connection with such use, and nonconforming signs or
billboards, existing at the time this title became effective, or which
thereafter becomes subject to the provisions of this title, may be continued
for a period of not more than three (3) years thereafter.
      2.   If a structure is employed in connection with a nonconforming use of
land, and is removed, or destroyed to the extent of more than fifty percent
(50%) of the permitted structure, as determined by the Building Official, of
its reasonable value by any cause, or the nonconforming use of the structure is
discontinued, the nonconforming use of such land may be continued for a period
of not more than three years after the date of such removal, destruction, or
discontinuance.
      3.   No nonconforming use of land shall in any way be expanded or
extended either on the same or adjoining property, or changed, except to a
conforming use.
      4.   If a nonconforming use of land, including, but not limited to,
agricultural land use is permitted to be continued under any of the provisions
of this section but is discontinued for one year, any future use of such land
shall conform to the provisions of this Ordinance.
   (C)   Effect Of Zone Changes For Nonconformities:
      1.   All of the provisions of this chapter shall apply to structures,
land, and uses which hereafter become nonconforming due to any amendment of
this title.
      2.   If a zone is established by this title or is hereafter changed, to
cause any boundary thereof to be located closer than the specified minimum
distance to a use which under the provisions of this title may not be
established within such minimum distance from the zone, then such use shall be
deemed to be a nonconforming use. (Ord. 2024-6, 6-17-2024)
CHAPTER 6
PERMIT PROCESSING
SECTION:
11-6-1: General Provisions
11-6-2: Application Processing
11-6-3: Preliminary Development Review
11-6-4: Zoning Clearance Letter (ZC)
11-6-5: Site Plan Review (SPR)
11-6-6: Director Review And Approval (DRA)
11-6-7: Conditional Use Permit (CUP)
11-6-8: Temporary Use Permits (TUP)
11-6-9: Minor Deviations
11-6-10: Variances
11-6-11: Pre-Zoning
11-6-12: Permit Implementation, Time Limits, And Extensions
11-6-1: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
   (A)   The purpose of this chapter is to identify the procedures for the
filing and processing of the different land use permit or approval applications
provided for in this Ordinance, unless superseded by specific requirement of
this title or State law.
   (B)   Before commencing any work pertaining to the erection, construction,
reconstruction, moving, conversion, or alteration of any building, or addition
to any building, the appropriate permit or permits shall be secured by any
owner or their agent for said work. A permit shall also be secured for certain
uses that are intended to be of limited duration of time and will not
permanently alter the character or physical facilities of the site where they
occur. It shall be unlawful to commence any work until and unless such a permit
has been obtained, and further, no such building shall be occupied or used
unless a license for such use, where required, is first obtained from the City.
   (C)   Permits granted by the City:
      1.   Site Plan Review.
      2.   Zoning Clearance.
      3.   Director Review and Approval.
      4.   Conditional Use Permit.
      5.   Temporary Use Permit.
      6.   Minor Deviations.
      7.   Variance.
Table 6-1   Permit Review Authorities
Name of Permit Code Chapter/ Section Role of Review Authority
                                     Director Commission Council
Table 6-1   Permit Review Authorities
Name of Permit               Code Chapter/ Section Role of Review Authority
                                                   Director  Commission Council
Site Plan Review             11-6-5                Decision  Appeal     Appeal
Preliminary Development      11-6-3                Recommend -          -
Permit
Zoning Clearance Letter      11-6-4                Decision  Appeal     -
Director Review and Approval 11-6-6                Decision  Appeal     Appeal
Conditional Use Permit       11-6-7                Recommend Decision   Appeal
Temporary Use Permit         11-6-8                Decision  Appeal     Appeal
Minor Deviation              11-6-9                Decision  Appeal     Appeal
Variance                     11-6-10               Recommend Decision   Appeal
 
(Ord. 2024-6, 6-17-2024)
11-6-2: APPLICATION PROCESSING:
These provisions are intended to prescribe the procedure for filing
applications for permits, appeals, amendments, and approvals when required or
permitted by this Chapter. These provisions are intended to provide the
framework by which applications will be determined to be complete and permitted
to be filed.
   (A)   Application Initiation:
      1.   Property owners or designees of property owner and lessees of the
subject property; or
      2.   Resolution of the Planning Commission or City Council.
   (B)   Application Forms:
      1.   The Director shall prescribe the form on which all applications are
made; shall prepare and provide forms for all planning applications; and shall
prescribe all application filing requirements. No application shall be accepted
unless it complies with the specified application filing requirements.
      2.   The Director may require the submission of supporting materials as
part of the application, including, but not limited to, operational statements,
photographs, plans, drawings, renderings, models, material and color samples,
and other items necessary to describe existing conditions on the project site
and in the vicinity and the proposed project and to determine the level of
environmental review pursuant to the California Environmental Quality Act.
      3.   All material submitted becomes the property of the City, may be
distributed to the public, and shall be made available for public inspection.
At any time, upon reasonable request, and during normal business hours, any
person may examine an application and materials submitted in support of or in
opposition to an application in the Planning Division office. Unless prohibited
by law, copies of such materials shall be made available at a reasonable cost.
      4.   Planning applications forms must be signed by the applicant and
owner of the property, or by a person with the owner's power-of-attorney,
involved in the application. In the case of multiple owners, either all owners
must sign the application, or the signatory must provide evidence that he or
she has the right to act on behalf of all owners.
      5.   If signatures of persons other than the owners of property making
the application are required or offered in support of, or in opposition to, an
application, they may be received as evidence of notice having been served upon
them of the pending application or as evidence of their opinion on the pending
issue.
   (C)   Determination Of Completeness:
      1.   No application shall be processed pursuant to this Chapter prior to
the determination by the Director that the application is complete in
accordance with this Section and the Permit Streamlining Act, Government Code
Section 65920 et seq. or any successor legislation thereto, to the extent
applicable.
      2.   The determination shall be made not later than thirty (30) calendar
days after the Planning Division has received an application for a development
project and shall state whether the application is complete or is incomplete
and shall specify additional information to be resubmitted.
      3.   A completed application shall consist of:
         (a)   The application form with all applicable information included on
the form;
         (b)   The additional information, reports, dimensioned drawings, and
other material required with application form;
         (c)   A description of how the proposed project or requested action is
consistent with the required findings of each application type; and
         (d)   Payment in full of the required fee for processing the
application.
      4.   If an application is determined incomplete, the Director shall
transmit to the applicant in writing the reason for the determination and shall
list the information that must accompany a resubmitted application. An
incomplete application shall be determined to be withdrawn if the information
requested is not received by the Director within thirty (30) days of the date
the initial written determination of incompleteness is delivered to the project
applicant.
      5.   The Director shall determine in writing the completeness of the
resubmitted application and transmit the determination to the applicant. This
determination shall be made no later than thirty (30) calendar days after the
Planning Division has received the resubmitted application. If determined
complete, the resubmitted application shall be processed pursuant to this
Chapter. If the application is determined to be incomplete, the applicant shall
be noticed pursuant to this subsection and the application may be deemed
withdrawn if no response is received by the City after three (3) months. If
deemed withdrawn, the applicant may file a new application or appeal the
determination of incompleteness to the Planning Commission pursuant to Section
11-7-8  Appeals.
      6.   If the Director fails to make a timely determination as to
completeness of an application, or resubmitted application, the application
shall be automatically deemed complete. The applicant and Director may mutually
agree in writing to extend these time periods.
      7.   The time periods for processing any applications under this Chapter
shall commence upon the date the application has been determined to be
complete.
   (D)   Abandonment Of Projects:
      1.   Applications for permits or approvals, pursuant to this Chapter,
shall be deemed to have been abandoned when information and/or fees necessary
for the completion of the application have been requested in writing and not
received by the Planning Division within ninety (90) days of notification. The
applicant may request (within the ninety (90) day time period) an extension of
up to one hundred eighty (180) days, or longer as may be approved by the
Planning Director only for extenuating circumstances. No further action shall
be taken on an application and no fees will be refunded once abandoned. (Ord.
2024-6, 6-17-2024)
11-6-3: PRELIMINARY DEVELOPMENT REVIEW:
   (A)   Purpose: Preliminary Development Review is a process that is intended
to provide applicants proposing a new project with relevant initial information
on, but not necessarily limited to, General or Specific Plan regulations or
policies, consistency with the Municipal Code, improvement standards,
environmental review, technical studies required, infrastructure needs, and
applicable processing procedures pursuant to this Code.
   (B)   Applicability: Preliminary Development Review is required prior to a
formal entitlement submittal for the following projects:
      1.   New non-residential construction on a vacant or underutilized
property.
      2.   New multi-family residential development.
      3.   Additions of more than or equal to twenty percent (20%) of the gross
floor area of the main structure or an addition of one thousand (1,000) square
feet, whichever is greater. This threshold is not to exceed three thousand
(3,000) square feet.
      4.   Changes in uses that increase the total required off-street parking.
   (C)   Review Authority: The Director shall make the determination that a
Preliminary Development Review submittal is complete for review. The review
process shall include all internal and external departments that have approval
oversight throughout the proposed entitlement process.
After review, all comments will be compiled into a written summary that
articulates requirements for future entitlement processing in accordance with
this Code.
   (D)   Application Requirements: Any applicant seeking a Preliminary
Development Review must complete an application on a form approved by the
Director, or their designee, submit the required materials for review, and pay
the adopted fee required for the processing of the application as set or
amended by resolution of the city council. Application materials shall include
but is not limited to the following:
      1.   Scaled Site Map;
      2.   Detailed Project Description;
      3.   Operational Statement;
      4.   Preliminary Title Report;
      5.   Owner Authorization
   (E)   Summary Of Recommendations: The Director shall provide the applicant
with a written summary of the procedures and requirements applicable to the
potential project. The written summary shall not be interpreted as a
recommendation for approval or disapproval.
   (F)   Formal Submittal: Following the completion of the Preliminary
Development Review process, the applicant may submit for a subsequent
entitlement application and filing fees. (Ord. 2024-6, 6-17-2024)
11-6-4: ZONING CLEARANCE LETTER (ZC):
   (A)   Purpose: A zoning clearance is the procedure used by the City to
verify that a proposed land use and that the project complies with the
development standards of this Zoning Code that apply to the use, consistent
with the General Plan.
   (B)   Applicability: Zoning clearance can be provided for all buildings and
structures hereinafter erected, constructed, altered, or moved within or into
any district established by this title, or for any use or activity which
requires a building permit.
   (C)   Review Authority: If the Director determines that the proposed use or
building is allowed as a matter of right by this Code and conforms to all the
applicable development and use standards, the Director shall issue a Zone
Clearance if one is requested.
   (D)   Application Requirements: Applications for a Zone Clearance shall be
submitted in accordance with the provisions set forth in
11-6-2 . The Director may request that the Zone Clearance application be
accompanied by a written narrative, operational statement, plans, and other
related materials necessary to show that the proposed development, alteration,
or use of the site complies with all applicable provisions of this Code. The
Director may require attachments of other written or graphic information,
including, but not limited to, statements, numeric data, site plans, floor
plans, and building elevations and sections, as a record of the proposal's
conformity with the applicable regulations of this Code. (Ord. 2024-6, 6-17-
2024)
11-6-5: SITE PLAN REVIEW (SPR):
   (A)   Purpose: The purposes of site plan review are to enable the Planning
Director to ministerially make a finding that the proposed development conforms
with the intent and provisions of this Chapter and to guide the Building
Department in the issuance of building permits.
   (B)   Applicability: Site plan review provisions shall apply to the
following:
      1.   All activities listed as permitted uses in all zone districts shall
be subject to the approval of a site plan review granted in compliance with
this Chapter, unless otherwise specified later in this Chapter. Approval of a
single-family residential unit on a lot shall not require site plan review.
      2.   Site Plans will be required under the following circumstances:
         (a)   New nonresidential developments proposing to construct a new
structure.
         (b)   Additions of more than or equal to one thousand (1,000) square
feet to existing non-residential buildings.
         (c)   Changes in uses that do not increase the size of a structure but
increase the total required off-street parking requirement pursuant to this
Chapter.
         (d)   New multi-family residential development such as, but not
limited to, apartments, condominiums, triplexes, or fourplexes.
   (C)   Review Authority: The Director shall approve, or conditionally
approve, applications for a Site Plan Review based on consideration of the
requirements of this chapter.
   (D)   Application Requirements: Applications for a Site Plan Review shall be
submitted in accordance with the provisions set forth in
11-6-2 . The Director may request that the Site Plan Review application be
accompanied by a written narrative, operational statement, plans, and other
related materials necessary to show that the proposed development, alteration,
or use of the site complies with all applicable provisions of this Code. The
application should include at a minimum the following information:
      1.   The lot dimensions.
      2.   Setbacks.
      3.   All existing and proposed buildings and structures and their
location, elevation, size, height, and proposed use.
      4.   Walls and fences and their location, height, and materials.
      5.   All parking, including the location, number of spaces, dimensions of
the parking area, and internal circulation patterns.
      6.   Pedestrian, ADA path of travel, bicycle, and vehicular access.
      7.   Signs and their location, size, and height.
      8.   Loading, including the location, dimensions, number of spaces, and
internal circulation.
      9.   Lighting, including the location and hooding devices.
      10.   Utilities, including location of existing and proposed utilities
and easements.
      11.   Street dedications and improvements.
      12.   Drainage.
      13.   Landscaping, including the location and type.
      14.   Fire prevention equipment and measures, including type and
location.
      15.   Such other data as may be required to permit the planning official
to make the required findings.
   (E)   Review And Decision:
      1.   The Director shall issue a permit if the proposed development
conforms precisely to applicable development standards and does not require
discretionary review or approval as outlined in this Chapter.
      2.   The Director shall require resubmittal of the site plan and identify
required revisions if the development is not in compliance with the applicable
development standards in which the property is located.
      3.   The Director shall prepare a written decision which shall contain
the findings of fact upon which such decision is based.
   (F)   Required Findings: The Director may only approve a Site Plan Review
application if it finds that the application is consistent with the purposes of
this article and with the following:
      1.   The applicable standards and requirements of this Code.
      2.   The General Plan and any operative plan or policies the City has
adopted.
      3.   Any applicable design guidelines the City has adopted.
      4.   Any approved Tentative Map, Conditional Use Permit, Variance, or
other planning or zoning approval that the project required.
   (G)   Conditions Of Approval: The Director may impose standard, objective
conditions that are reasonably related to the application and deemed necessary
to achieve the purposes of this article and ensure compliance with the
applicable criteria and standards established by this Code. (Ord. 2024-6, 6-17-
2024)
11-6-6: DIRECTOR REVIEW AND APPROVAL (DRA):
   (A)   Purpose: A DRA is intended to allow for the approval of projects which
conform to the standards established for the Zoning District and do not require
discretionary review. A DRA provides for an administrative review and
assessment of the proposed development project considering explicit standards
contained in the Chapter which have been designed to ensure that the completed
project will be in harmony with existing or potential development in the
surrounding area, consistent with the goals, objectives, and policies of the
General Plan.
   (B)   Applicability: A Director Review and Approval (DRA) shall be required
prior to issuance of any Building Permit for the development of uses subject to
a DRA as listed in Chapter 2 of the Zoning Ordinance.
   (C)   Review Authority: The Director, or their designee, may issue a DRA for
all uses requiring such permit. The Director, or their designee, shall review
the application for a DRA and approve, approve with requirement to conform with
the zone district, or deny said application within thirty (30) days after the
application is received by the community development department. Failure of the
Director to act within thirty (30) days shall not be deemed an approval.
   (D)   Application Requirements: Anyone seeking a DRA must complete an
application on a form approved by the Director, or their designee, and pay any
fee required for the processing of the application as set or amended by
resolution of the city council. Said application shall not be deemed received
unless it is complete, and all fees paid.
   (E)   Required Findings:
      1.   That the use will not involve any process, equipment, or materials
which, in the opinion of the Director, will be objectionable to persons living
or working in the vicinity by reasons of odor, fumes, dust, smoke, cinders,
dirt, refuse, water-carried wastes, noise, vibration, illumination, glare or
unsightliness or to involve any hazard of fire or explosion.
      2.   The proposed use will not be contrary to the objectives of the
General Plan and any applicable specific plan.
      3.   That the proposed use will be harmonious with existing structures
and use of land in the vicinity. (Ord. 2024-6, 6-17-2024)
11-6-7: CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT (CUP):
   (A)   Purpose: The purpose of this Chapter is to describe the process and
general requirements in which a Conditional Use Permit (CUP) is required.
Conditional uses require special consideration due to unusual characteristics
or potential impacts on surrounding uses. They require discretionary review and
approval to ensure that the uses are generally consistent with the purposes of
the Zoning District where they are proposed to ensure that they can be
designed, located, and operated in a manner that will not interfere with the
use and enjoyment of surrounding properties.
   (B)   Applicability: A CUP is required for buildings or structures
constructed, the use of vacant land, changes in the character of the use of
land or building, or for substantial expansions in the use of land or building,
which may have an impact upon the general welfare, safety of the public, or
otherwise specified as a requirement in Chapter 2 of the Zoning Ordinance.
These uses require an additional level of review and have a higher threshold of
approval to ensure that they are compatible with the adjacent land uses and
comply with the goals and intent of the General Plan. A Conditional Use Permit
granted pursuant to the provisions of this chapter shall run with the land and
shall continue to be valid upon a change of ownership of the site or structure
which was the subject of the use permit application unless a specific time
period in which the use permit will be valid, and the use may be operated has
been set.
   (C)   Review Authority: Planning Commission Public Hearing:
      1.   A public hearing shall be held by the Planning Commission after the
filing of a complete application for a conditional use permit, notice of which
shall be given in the manner prescribed in Section
11-7-9 .
      2.   At the public hearing, the Planning Commission shall review the
application and the statement and project plans submitted therewith and shall
receive pertinent evidence concerning the proposed use and the proposed
conditions under which it would be operated or maintained,
      3.   The public hearing shall be conducted in accordance with the rules
and procedures specified in Section
11-7-9
   (D)   Application Requirements: The applicant shall submit an electronic
copy and three (3) physical copies of a site plan, or as determined by the City
Manager or Designee, and a completed CUP application form to the Planning
Division. The application submission shall include a filing fee as required
under the Selma User Fee Schedule.
      1.   Upon receipt of a CUP application, the City shall first review the
application to determine completeness and determine the level of environmental
review necessary for the project.
      2.   If the application is deemed complete, the conditional use permit
shall be considered at a future, duly noticed public hearing before the
Planning Commission.
      3.   A CUP may be granted only when all the following findings are met in
reference to the property being considered. The inability to make one or more
of the findings is grounds for denial of an application.
      4.   Any person may appeal the Planning Commission's decision to the City
Council in accordance with the procedure specified in Section
11-7-8  Appeals. Upon appeal of the Planning Commission's action, the City
Council shall hold a new public hearing where it shall review the proceedings
held by the Planning Commission and either affirm, deny, or modify the
Commission's decision.
      5.   A CUP shall expire and become void one year from the date it became
effective if the use permitted under the CUP is not operating within that time
period, unless a greater time was agreed upon in writing upon permit approval,
or a building permit was issued, and construction has commenced prior to the
expiration.
      6.   A CUP may be renewed for an additional year, or for a lesser or
greater time as specified, provided that an application for renewal is filed
with the Planning Commission prior to the expiration of the previous CUP. The
Planning Commission may by resolution approve, approve with conditions, or deny
an application for renewal of a CUP. The resolution shall describe the findings
of the Planning Commission regarding the decision.
      7.   Following the denial of a conditional use permit application or the
revocation of a conditional use permit, no application for a conditional use
permit for the same or substantially the same conditional use on the same or
substantially the same site shall be filed within one year from the date of
denial or revocation of the conditional use permit.
   (E)   Public Notice: Public Notice shall be provided ten (10) days prior to
the date of action pursuant to section
11-7-9 .
   (F)   Required Findings: The Planning Commission in granting a conditional
use permit shall find as follows:
      1.   The proposed use is conditionally allowed within, and would not
impair the integrity and character of, the subject zoning district and is in
substantial compliance with all of the applicable provisions of this
Development Code;
      2.   The proposed use is consistent with the General Plan and any
applicable specific plan;
      3.   The design, location, size, and operating characteristics of the
proposed use are compatible with the existing and future land uses and would
not create substantial noise, traffic, or other conditions or situations that
may be objectionable or detrimental to other allowed uses operating nearby, or
adverse to the public interest, health, safety, convenience, or welfare of the
City;
      4.   The subject parcel is physically suitable in size and shape for the
type and density/intensity of use being proposed;
      5.   There are adequate provisions for public access, water, sanitation,
and public utilities and services to ensure that the proposed use would not be
detrimental to public health and safety; and
      6.   The proposed project has been reviewed in compliance with the
provisions of the California Environmental Quality Act. (Ord. 2024-6, 6-17-
2024)
11-6-8: TEMPORARY USE PERMITS (TUP):
   (A)   Purpose: The purpose of this Chapter is to establish a process for
review and approval of certain uses that are intended to be of limited duration
of time and will not permanently alter the character or physical facilities of
the site where they occur.
   (B)   Applicability: An application for a Temporary Use Permit shall be
submitted at least forty five (45) days before the use is intended to begin.
The application requires non-discretionary review and shall be on the required
form and include an operational statement and the written consent of the owner
of the property or the agent of the owner.
   (C)   Temporary Uses Requiring A Temporary Use Permit:
      1.   Stand-Alone Seasonal Sales: Seasonal sales of holiday related items
such as Christmas trees, pumpkins, and similar items conducted for a period not
to exceed forty five (45) consecutive calendar days or a total of sixty (60)
days in a one-year period.
      2.   Temporary Outdoor Sales: Temporary outdoor sales conducted by an
established retail commercial business holding a valid City business license,
including, but not limited to, grand opening events, sidewalk sales, and other
special sales events subject to the following standards:
         (a)   Temporary outdoor sales shall be conducted for the same site on
which the permit is applied and authorized for.
         (b)   Outdoor display and sales areas must be located on a paved or
concrete area on the same parcel as the structure(s) containing the business
with which the temporary sale is associated.
         (c)   Location of the displayed merchandise must not disrupt the
normal circulation of the site, nor encroach upon driveways, pedestrian
walkways, and ADA path of travel compliance or required landscaped areas or
obstruct sight distances or otherwise create hazards for vehicle or pedestrian
traffic.
         (d)   Number Of Events. No more than four (4) events shall be allowed,
per applicant, on any one site within any twelve (12) month period, except
sidewalk sales located on the public right-of-way shall be limited to two (2)
events for periods not exceeding three (3) consecutive days each within any
twelve (12) month period. Business Improvement Districts Areas shall be exempt
from the limitations on number of events.
   (D)   Review Authority: The Director shall approve, conditionally approve,
or deny applications for temporary use permits based on consideration of the
requirements of this Zoning Ordinance. The Director may refer an application
for a temporary use permit to the Planning Commission if the Director finds
that the temporary use may have substantial and detrimental impacts to
surrounding land that warrant Planning Commission review. If the Director
determines that the application is subject to review under CEQA and the project
does not qualify for an exemption pursuant to State law or CEQA Guidelines, the
temporary use permit shall be processed as a conditional use permit
application.
   (E)   Application Requirements: An application for a Temporary Use Permit
shall be submitted in accordance with the provisions set forth in
11-6-2 . The Planning Director may request that the TUP application be
accompanied by a written narrative, operational statement, plans, and other
related materials necessary to show that the proposed development, alteration,
or use of the site complies with all applicable provisions of this Code. The
application should include at a minimum the following information:
      1.   A statement of operations describing the hours of operation, days
that the temporary use will be on site, the number of people staffing the use
during operation, and other information relating to the operation of the use
that pertains to the impact of the use on the community or on adjacent uses;
and
      2.   Drawings, sketches or illustrations, dimensioned and drawn to scale,
showing the size and location of the property, location of adjacent streets,
location and size of all structures on the site, signs, location and number of
off-street parking spaces and drive aisles, locations on entrances and exits
and temporary structures to be erected or installed as a part of the temporary
use.
   (F)   Required Findings: The Director may approve an application for a
temporary use permit, without public notice, upon making the following
findings:
      1.   The proposed use complies with the timeframes indicated for said
use.
      2.   The proposed use will not unreasonably affect adjacent properties,
their owners and occupants, or the surrounding neighborhood, and will not in
any other way constitute a nuisance or be detrimental to the health, safety,
peace, comfort, or general welfare of persons residing or working in the area
of such use or to the general welfare of the City.
      3.   The proposed use will not unreasonably interfere with pedestrian and
ADA path of travel compliance or vehicular traffic or circulation in the area
surrounding the proposed use and will not create a demand for additional
parking that cannot be safely and efficiently accommodated by existing parking
areas or a parking management plan.
      4.   The proposed site is adequate in size and shape to accommodate the
temporary use without material detriment to the use and enjoyment of other
properties located adjacent to and in the vicinity of the site.
      5.   Adequate temporary parking to accommodate vehicular traffic to be
generated by the use will be available either on-site or at alternate locations
acceptable to the Director. (Ord. 2024-6, 6-17-2024)
11-6-9: MINOR DEVIATIONS:
   (A)   Purpose: The purpose of this Chapter is to establish procedures to
allow minor adjustments to the dimensional requirements, design standards, and
other requirements of this title when so doing is consistent with the purposes
of the General Plan and the District and would, because of practical
difficulties, integrity of design, topography, and similar site conditions,
result in better design, environmental protection, and land use planning.
   (B)   Applicability: The provisions of this Section shall apply to specific
development proposals that are for uses permitted by right or by discretionary
review in the district. Minor deviations of up to but not exceeding ten percent
(10%) of the development standards, such as, but not limited to, setbacks,
height, buildable area, or parking, for the applicable district may be approved
by the Community Development Director ("Director") upon application by the
property owner, which application outlines and demonstrates the justifiable
need and reason for the deviation. In no case shall a minor deviation be
granted pursuant to this Chapter to permit a use or activity that is not
otherwise permitted in the District where the property is located, nor shall a
minor modification be granted that alters the procedural or timing requirements
of this Ordinance. No deviation which compromises public health and safety in
any manner shall be approved.
   (C)   Review Authority: The Director shall approve, conditionally approve,
or deny applications for a minor deviation based on consideration of the
requirements of this chapter.
   (D)   Application Requirements: An application for a minor deviation shall
be submitted to the Director in accordance with Section
11-6-2 . The application shall state in writing the nature of the deviation
requested and explain why the findings necessary to grant the deviation are
satisfied. The applicant shall also submit plans delineating the requested
deviation.
   (E)   Required Findings: A decision to grant a deviation shall be based on
making all of the following findings:
      1.   The deviation is necessary due to the physical characteristics of
the property and the proposed use or structure or other circumstances,
including, but not limited to, location of existing improvements, topography,
noise exposure, irregular property boundaries, or other unusual circumstance;
      2.   The requested modification is consistent with the General Plan and
any applicable area or specific plan;
      3.   The project as modified meets the intent and purpose of the
applicable zone district and is in substantial compliance with the district
regulations;
      4.   The granting of the requested deviation will not be detrimental to
the health or safety of the public, the occupants of the property, parcels
sharing common parcel lines, or result in a change in land use or density that
would be inconsistent with the requirements of this Code. (Ord. 2024-6, 6-17-
2024)
11-6-10: VARIANCES:
   (A)   Purpose: The purpose of this chapter is intended to provide a
mechanism for relief from the strict application of this Code where this will
deprive the property owner of privileges enjoyed by similar properties because
of the subject property's unique and special conditions.
   (B)   Applicability: Variances may be granted with respect to development
standards, but variances from the use regulations of this Code are not allowed.
The Planning Commission shall have power to grant such variances only to the
extent necessary to overcome such practical difficulty or unnecessary hardship
as may be established in accordance with the provisions of this Chapter. No
Variance shall be granted, in whole or in part, that would have an effect
substantially equivalent to a reclassification of property, alter any use,
density limit, maximum floor area ratio, or bulk of a building or structure not
expressly permitted by the provisions of this title for the District or
Districts in which the property in question is located, grant a privilege for
which a conditional use procedure is provided by this title, or would change a
definition in this title. A Variance is not a vested right and is granted upon
the discretion of the Planning Commission. The burden of proof for satisfying
the requirements for granting of a Variance, as stated in this title, rests
with the applicant.
   (C)   Review Authority: The Planning Commission shall have authority to
grant variances, pursuant to the provisions of this Chapter, and to specify
terms and conditions thereof. Any variance granted shall be subject to such
conditions as will assure that the adjustment thereby authorized shall not
constitute a grant of special privilege inconsistent with the limitations upon
other properties in the vicinity and zone in which subject property is
situated, and such other conditions as the Planning Commission deems necessary
to carry out the purposes of this Ordinance.
   (D)   Application Requirements:
      1.   Procedure; Revocation; Modification:
         (a)   The procedure for application for variances and the review and
issuance thereof, shall be as provided in Section
11-6-2 .
         (b)   Variances may be revoked or modified in the manner and under the
conditions set forth in Section
11-6-11
   (E)   Public Notice: All applications for Variances shall require a public
notice pursuant to the noticing procedures in Section
11-7-9  
   (F)   Required Findings: The applicant for a variance shall show, and before
a variance may be granted the Planning Commission shall find, as follows:
      1.   That because of special circumstances applicable to subject
property, including size, shape, topography, location or surrounding, the
strict application of this title deprives the subject property of privileges
enjoyed by other properties in the vicinity and under identical zone
classification.
      2.   That the granting of the variance will not be materially detrimental
to the public welfare or injurious to the property or improvements in the
vicinity or zone in which the property is located.
      3.   The strict application of the provisions of this title would result
in practical difficulties or unnecessary hardships, not including economic
difficulties or economic hardships.
      4.   That the granting of such variance will not adversely affect the
general plan or the purposes of this title. The variance would not impair the
integrity and character of the District in which it is to be located.
   (G)   Conditions Of Approval: In approving a Variance, the Planning
Commission may impose reasonable conditions deemed necessary to ensure
compliance with the findings required. (Ord. 2024-6, 6-17-2024)
11-6-11: PRE-ZONING:
An unincorporated property within the City's sphere of influence shall be pre-
zoned to the zoning district that would apply upon annexation to the City per
LAFCo requirements for annexation in the City.
   (A)   Initiation And Processing: A prezoning shall be initiated, processed
and approved or disapproved in the same manner as provided for other amendments
by this Chapter and in coordination with LAFCo.
   (B)   Application Of Official Zoning Designation: Upon the effective date of
annexation, the zoning designation established by prezoning shall become the
official zoning for the property and shall be so designated on the Zoning Map.
(Ord. 2024-6, 6-17-2024)
11-6-12: PERMIT IMPLEMENTATION, TIME LIMITS, AND EXTENSIONS:
Any discretionary, ministerial, or administrative land use permit pursuant to
this chapter shall become void twelve (12) months following the date on which
the land use permit became effective unless, by conditions of the land use
permit, a lesser or greater time is prescribed, or unless, prior to the
expiration, a development-related permit is issued by the City, and
construction has commenced and is being diligently pursued in accordance with
the land use permit. Failure to utilize any use permit granted by the City
within twelve (12) months after the effective date of issuance unless a written
request for extension is submitted to the Planning Commission thirty (30) days
prior to the expiration of the permit. The Planning Commission shall review the
request at its next regular meeting and may grant or conditionally grant an
extension as it deems appropriate. (Ord. 2024-6, 6-17-2024)
 
CHAPTER 7
ZONING ORDINANCE ADMINISTRATION
SECTION:
11-7-1: Administrative Responsibilities
11-7-2: Planning Agency
11-7-3: City Council
11-7-4: Community Development Director
11-7-5: Effect Of Council Decision
11-7-6: Planning Commission
11-7-7: Amendments To Zoning Ordinance Text, Zoning Map And General Plan
11-7-8: Appeals
11-7-9: Public Notices And Hearings
11-7-10: Development Agreements
11-7-11: Annexation
11-7-12: Enforcement
11-7-13: Fees
11-7-1: ADMINISTRATIVE RESPONSIBILITIES:
This Chapter defines the authority and responsibility of City staff and
official bodies in the administration of this Title and in compliance with
Chapter 11-6-1 (Permit Processing-General Provisions). (Ord. 2024-6, 6-17-2024)
11-7-2: PLANNING AGENCY:
As provided by State law, the Commission is designated as the planning agency
and as the advisory agency, when required or authorized. The Director or
designee shall perform the functions of an advisory agency, as assigned, in
compliance with State law. (Ord. 2024-6, 6-17-2024)
11-7-3: CITY COUNCIL:
The Council shall perform the duties and functions prescribed in this Title,
which include the following:
   (A)   Review Authority On Specified Planning Matters: Final decisions on
Development Agreements, General Plan Amendments, Specific Plans, Zoning Map/
Code Amendments, and other applicable environmental documents, policy, or
ordinance matters related to the City's planning process; and
   (B)   Appeals: The Review of any appeal filed from a decision by the
Commission. The functions listed above shall be performed in compliance with
Chapter 11-6.1 (Permit Processing-General Provisions) and the California
Environmental Quality Act (CEQA). (Ord. 2024-6, 6-17-2024)
11-7-4: COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT DIRECTOR:
   (A)   Duties And Authority: The director or designee:
      1.   Shall have the responsibility to perform all of the functions
designated by State Law;
      2.   Shall perform the duties and functions prescribed in this Title,
including the review of any administrative development project in compliance
with Chapter 6 (Permit Processing), and the California Environmental Quality
Act (CEQA);
      3.   Shall perform other responsibilities assigned by the Council and
Commission; and
   (B)   Delegation and Supervision: The Director may delegate the
responsibilities of the Director to assigned City staff under the supervision
of the Director. When the Director designates a City staff person, the staff
person shall perform the duties assigned by the Director, in addition to those
listed in Subsection
11-7-4(A) (Duties and Authority), as appropriate to the personnel title of the
designee. (Ord. 2024-6, 6-17-2024)
11-7-5: EFFECT OF COUNCIL DECISION:
Effect Of Council Decision: Unless otherwise provided in the Code, the Council
decision shall be final and effective and subject to a writ under Code of Civil
Procedure Section 1094.5 or CEQA Section 1085 immediately upon final Council
action. (Ord. 2024-6, 6-17-2024)
11-7-6: PLANNING COMMISSION:
   (A)   Appointment: The Planning Commission , pursuant to Title II Chapter 1-
Planning Commission, shall be appointed and serve in compliance with Subsection
11-7-6 of the City of Selma Municipal Code.
   (B)   Duties And Authority: The Commission shall perform the duties and
functions prescribed by Title 2 (Commissions and Boards) of the City of Selma
Municipal Code and this Title, including the following:
      1.   The review and final decision on development projects and related
environmental documents; and
      2.   The recommendation, to the city council for final decisions, on
development agreements, General Plan Amendments, Specific Plans, Zoning Map/
Code Amendments, and other applicable environmental documents, policy, or
ordinance matters related to the City's planning process.
      3.   The functions listed above shall be performed in compliance with
Chapter 6 (Permit Processing) and the California Environmental Quality Act
(CEQA). (Ord. 2024-6, 6-17-2024)
11-7-7: AMENDMENTS TO ZONING ORDINANCE TEXT, ZONING MAP AND GENERAL PLAN:
The purpose of this Chapter is to provide procedures by which changes may be
made to the text of this title and to the Zoning Map whenever the public
necessity and convenience and the general welfare require such amendment to
maintain consistency with the General Plan.
   (A)   Applicability: The procedures in this Chapter shall apply to the
following proposals:
      1.   Zoning Ordinance text amendment; A change the text of this title;
zoning map amendment (rezone and prezone). An application to revise a Zoning
District classification or Zoning District boundary line shown on the Zoning
Map. The same application and process shall be applicable for the purpose of
prezoning to establish the designation of land uses for unincorporated property
adjoining the city, within the sphere of influence, prior to annexation.
      2.   Plan Amendment: A change in the text of the General Plan or any
operative plan, or a change to the General Plan's planned land use designation
for a site, including pre-zoning.
   (B)   Initiation: An Amendment to the text of the Zoning Ordinance, Zoning
Map or General Plan may be initiated by:
      1.   Council: A resolution of intention directing the commission to
initiate an amendment;
      2.   Planning Commission: A resolution of intention initiated by the
planning commission;
      3.   Director: An amendment may be initiated by the Director;
      4.   Zoning Ordinance Text Amendment: An amendment to the text of the
zoning code may be initiated by any qualified applicant identified in Chapter 6
(Permit Processing); or
      5.   Zoning Map Amendment: An amendment to the zoning map (i.e. rezone)
may be initiated by a petition signed by no fewer than fifty (50) persons who
are property owners or tenants within the City.
      6.   Plan Amendment: An amendment to the General Plan or operative plan
may be initiated by any qualified applicant identified in Chapter 6 (Permit
Processing). Plan Amendments include changes to text in said plans, maps, and
planned land use designations.
   (C)   Application Requirements:
      1.   Application: A qualified applicant shall submit an application for a
zoning amendment on a form prescribed by the Director or designee accompanied
by the required fee. The Director or designee may require an applicant to
submit such additional information and supporting data as considered necessary
to process the application.
      2.   Coordination With Other Applications: The Planning Division may
allow any necessary applications for amendments to zoning regulations or for
approval under the requirements of this title to be processed simultaneously
with the proposed zoning amendment.
   (D)   Review Procedures And Public Notice:
      1.   Staff Report: The Director or designee shall prepare a report and
recommendation to the planning commission on any application for a zoning
amendment. The report shall include, but is not limited to, a discussion of how
the proposed amendment meets the criteria in Section
11-7-7(G), Criteria for Zoning Amendments, for approving a zoning amendment and
an environmental document prepared in compliance with the California
Environmental Quality Act.
      2.   Public Hearing Required: All zoning amendments shall be referred to
the Planning Commission, which shall hold at least one public hearing on any
proposed amendment.
      3.   Public Notice: At least ten (10) days before the date of the public
hearing, the planning division shall provide notice consistent with Section
11-7-9, Public Notices and Hearings.
   (E)   Planning Commission Hearing And Recommendation:
      1.   Planning Commission Hearing: The Planning Commission shall conduct a
public hearing in conformance with Chapter 6, Permit Processing.
      2.   Recommendation To Council: Following the public hearing, the
Planning Commission shall make a recommendation on the proposed zoning
amendment to the City Council. Such recommendation shall include the reasons
for the recommendation, and the findings related to the criteria for zoning
amendments in Section
11-7-7 and shall be transmitted to the City Council. If the matter under
consideration is a proposal to reclassify a property from one zone to another
and the Planning Commission has recommended against the adoption of such
amendment, the City Council is not required to take any further action unless
an interested party files a written request for a hearing with the City Clerk
within fourteen (14) days after the Planning Commission action.
   (F)   City Council Hearing And Action:
      1.   After receiving the report from the Planning Commission or a written
request from an interested party pursuant to Section
11-7-7(6)(B), the City Council shall hold a duly-noticed public hearing. At
least ten (10) days before the date of the public hearing, the Planning
Division shall provide notice consistent with Chapter 6, Permit Processing. The
notice shall include a summary of the Planning Commission recommendation.
      2.   After the conclusion of the hearing, the City Council may approve,
modify, or deny the proposed amendment.
   (G)   Criteria For Zoning Amendments:
      1.   The Planning Commission shall not recommend, and the City Council
shall not approve a Zoning Text Amendment unless the proposed amendment meets
the following criteria:
         (a)   Zoning Ordinance Text Amendment Findings:
            (1)   The Ordinance amendment is consistent in principle with the
General Plan and any applicable Specific Plan; and
            (2)   The Ordinance amendment is consistent with the purpose of
this Ordinance to promote the growth of the City in an orderly manner and to
promote and protect the public health, safety, and general welfare.
         (b)   Zoning District Boundary Amendment (Rezoning Map Amendments) And
General Plan Amendments Findings:
            (1)   The change in district boundaries is consistent in principle
with the General Plan;
            (2)   The change in district boundaries is consistent with the
purpose of this title to promote the growth of the City in an orderly manner
and to promote and protect the public health, safety, and general welfare; and
            (3)   The change in district boundaries is necessary to achieve the
balance of land uses desired by the City, consistent with the General Plan, and
to increase the inventory of land within a given Zoning District.
   (H)   Interim Zoning:
      1.   The City Council, to protect the public safety, health, and welfare,
may adopt an interim ordinance prohibiting or allowing any uses or establishing
development standards when this Zoning Ordinance may otherwise be in conflict
with a contemplated General Plan, Specific Plan, or zoning proposal which the
City Council, Planning Commission or the Director or designee is considering or
studying or intends to study within a reasonable time. Nothing in this Section
shall limit the power of the City Council, by virtue of the City Charter, to
take necessary action to protect the public health, safety, and welfare.
         (a)   Procedures:
            (1)   In adopting an interim ordinance, the City Council need not
follow the procedures otherwise required prior to the adoption of an Ordinance
amendment as provided for in this Chapter.
            (2)   An interim ordinance may be adopted as an emergency ordinance
pursuant to the provisions of Chapter 6, Permit Processing.
            (3)   The City Council as part of any interim ordinance, may adopt
procedures to modify the standards contained in the interim ordinance, and may
establish procedures which differ from those contained in Chapter 6, Permit
Processing.
         (b)   Required Findings:
            (1)   The City Council shall not adopt or extend any interim
ordinance pursuant to this Section unless the ordinance contains a finding that
there is a current and immediate threat to the public health, safety, and
welfare, and that the approval of additional subdivisions, use permits,
variances, building permits or any other applicable entitlement for use which
is required in order to comply with a zoning ordinance would result in a threat
to public health, safety, and welfare.
         (c)   Duration:
            (1)   An interim ordinance shall be of no further force and effect
sixty (60) days from its effective date. After notice and public hearing
pursuant to Chapter 7, the City Council may extend the interim ordinance up to
sixty (60) months.
            (2)   Notwithstanding subsections (H)1(a) through (H)1(c) of this
Section, if the interim zoning ordinance would operate to prohibit a use
otherwise authorized by this title, the City Council shall follow the procedure
specified in Government Code Section 65858, or any successor legislation
thereto. (Ord. 2024-6, 6-17-2024)
11-7-8: APPEALS:
   (A)   Purpose: This Chapter provides procedures (as described in Table 6-
1 Permit Review Authorities) for the following:
      1.   The Council's review of a decision rendered by the Planning
commission;
      2.   The Planning commission's review of a decision rendered by the
Director or designee;
      3.   The simultaneous request for an appeal by both the Council and
Planning commission; and
      4.   The filing of an appeal, by other than the Council or Planning
commission, of a decision rendered by the Director or designee or Planning
commission.
   (B)   Planning Commission Review: A member of the Planning Commission may
request the opportunity to discuss any decision previously rendered by the
Director or designee; however, a majority vote of the Planning commission is
required to initiate an appeal of the decision. Once the vote to initiate an
appeal is passed by a majority, the matter shall be scheduled for hearing. The
decision of the Planning Commission on the appeal is final, unless after a
timely written request is made to the City Council and the City Council
approves the request for appeal to the City Council.
   (C)   Council Review: A member of the Council may request the opportunity to
discuss any decision previously rendered by the Director or designee or
Planning Commission; however, a majority vote of the Council is required to
initiate an appeal of the decision. Once the vote to initiate an appeal is
passed by a majority, the matter shall be scheduled for hearing. The decision
of the Council on the appeal shall be final and shall become effective upon
adoption of the resolution by the Council.
   (D)   Appeal By The Council And Planning Commission: If members of both the
Planning Commission and Council file an appeal from the same decision, the
matter shall be scheduled for Council determination. The Council shall
determine whether the appeal shall be considered, and if so, by which review
authority. Once the Council determines that the appeal should be heard, the
appeal shall be scheduled for hearing by the review authority designated by the
Council.
   (E)   Appeals Of Decisions: An appeal filed by other than the Council or
Planning Commission shall be heard by the following review authorities:
      1.   Director Appeals: A decision rendered by the Director or designee
may be appealed to the Planning commission;
   (F)   Planning Commission Appeals: A decision rendered by the Planning
Commission may be appealed to the City Council.
      1.   Report And Scheduling Of Hearing: When an appeal has been filed, the
Director or designee shall prepare a report on the matter and schedule the
matter for consideration by the appropriate review authority.
      2.   Required Statement And Evidence:
         (a)   Applications for appeals shall include a general statement,
specifying the basis for the appeal and the specific aspect of the decision
being appealed.
         (b)   Appeals shall be based upon an error in fact, dispute of
findings or inadequacy of conditions to mitigate potential impacts.
         (c)   Appeals shall be accompanied by supporting evidence
substantiating the basis for the appeal.
      3.   Action: If the matter originally required a noticed public hearing,
the Planning Division or city Clerk, as applicable, shall notice the hearing in
compliance with subsection (H) (Notice for Appeal Hearings). At the hearing,
the review authority may consider any issue involving the matter that is the
subject of the appeal, in addition to the specific grounds for the appeal.
         (a)   By resolution, the review authority may affirm, affirm in part,
or reverse the action, determination or decision that is the subject of the
appeal.
         (b)   When reviewing an appeal, the review authority may amend or
adopt additional conditions of approval that may address other issues or
concerns than the subject of the appeal.
         (c)   When reviewing an appeal, the review authority may disapprove
the land use entitlement approved by the previous review authority, even though
the appellant only requested a modification or elimination of one or more
conditions of approval.
         (d)   If new or different evidence is presented on appeal, the
planning commission or Council may, but shall not be required to, refer the
matter back to the director or designee or planning commission for further
consideration.
   (G)   Time Limitations:
      1.   Timing And Form Of Appeal: Appeals shall be submitted in writing and
filed with the Planning Division or city Clerk, as applicable, within fifteen
(15) days after the decision date identified in the notice of decision. Appeals
addressed to the Planning commission shall be filed with the Planning Division,
while appeals addressed to the Council shall be filed with the City Clerk. The
appeal shall specifically state the pertinent facts of the case, and the basis
for the appeal as required by subsection (F)3 (Required Statement and Evidence)
below. Appeals shall be accompanied by the filing fee established by the
Council Fee Resolution. The number of days shall be construed as calendar days.
Time limits will extend to the following City Hall working day, where the last
of the specified number of days falls on a weekend, holiday, or other day when
City Hall is officially closed.
   (H)   Notice For Appeal Hearings:
      1.   Appeal Of Planning Commission's Decision: Where an appeal of a
Planning Commission decision made following a public hearing, noticed in
compliance with Section
11-7-9 (Public Notices and Hearings), is filed with the city Clerk, and a
hearing on the merits of the appeal is placed in the Council agenda, notice
shall be given in compliance with Section
11-7-9 (Public Notices and Hearings), unless the council determines otherwise.
      2.   Appeal Of Director's Decision: The director or designee may require
mailed notices, on a case-by-case basis, in compliance with Section
11-7-9 (Public Notices and Hearings), for the appeal of an administrative
discretionary review decision to the planning commission or Council. At
minimum, notice of the appeal shall be mailed to all persons who previously
received notice of the director's or designee's decision, at least twenty one
(21) days before the scheduled public hearing or review.
   (I)   Notice Of Final Decision- Planning Commission: Within ten (10) working
days after the final decision is rendered by the planning commission, a notice
of the decision, and any applicable conditions of approval, shall be mailed to
the appellant at the address shown on the application. A copy of the notice
shall also be sent in compliance with subsection
11-7-9(G) (Mailing of the Notice of Decision).
   (J)   Appeal Pending: While an appeal is pending, the establishment of any
affected use or structure shall be held in abeyance, and all permits and
licenses issued for the use or structure shall be stayed. (Ord. 2024-6, 6-17-
2024)
11-7-9: PUBLIC NOTICES AND HEARINGS:
This Chapter provides procedures for the noticing requirements and public
hearings before the Commission and Council, and for administrative review by
the Director or designee. When a public hearing is required by this Title,
public notice shall be given, and the hearing shall be conducted as provided by
this Chapter.
   (A)   Notice Of Public Hearing:
      1.   A notice of public hearing shall be mailed to the applicant or their
agent, the owner of the property and owners and occupants of all property
within a radius of three hundred feet (300') from the property lines of the
site under consideration, using for this purpose the name and address of such
owners as shown upon the latest available assessment rolls of the county
assessor. The notices shall be mailed at least ten (10) days prior to the date
of the public hearing.
      2.   If applicable, a notice of the hearing shall be mailed or delivered
at least ten (10) days prior to the hearing to each local agency expected to
provide water, sewage, streets, roads, schools, or other essential facilities
or services to the project, whose ability to provide those facilities and
services may be significantly affected.
      3.   At least ten (10) days prior to the date of the hearing, a public
notice shall be published in a newspaper having general circulation in the
city.
   (B)   Notice Of Decision - Director: The Director or designee may record the
decision, refer the matter to the Commission for determination, or defer action
and record the decision at a later date. The decision shall contain applicable
findings, any conditions of approval, and the reporting/monitoring requirements
deemed necessary to mitigate any impacts and protect the public health, safety,
and general welfare of the City.
   (C)   Notice Of Decision - Commission: The Commission may announce and
record the decision at the conclusion of a scheduled hearing, or defer action,
take specified items under advisement, and announce and record the decision at
a later date. The decision shall contain applicable findings, any conditions of
approval, and the reporting/monitoring requirements deemed necessary to
mitigate any impacts and protect the public health, safety, and general welfare
of the City.
   (D)   Finality Of Decision By Director Or Commission: The decision of the
Director or Commission or their designees is final unless appealed in
compliance Chapter
11-7-8 (Appeals).
   (E)   Recommendation By Commission: At the conclusion of a public hearing on
a Comprehensive Plan, Development Agreement, Specific Plan, prezoning, or a
proposed amendment to the General Plan or Zoning Map/Code, the Commission shall
forward a recommendation, including all required findings, to the Council for
final action.
   (F)   Notice Of Decision - Council: For an application requiring Council
approval, the Council shall announce and record its decision at the conclusion
of the public hearing. The decision shall contain the findings of the Council,
any conditions of approval, and the reporting/monitoring requirements deemed
necessary to mitigate impacts and protect the public health, safety, and
general welfare of the City.
   (G)   Mailing Of The Notice Of Decision: Within ten (10) working days after
the final decision or recommendation is rendered by the appropriate review
authority, a notice of the decision, recommendation, any applicable conditions
of approval, and any reporting/monitoring requirements, shall be mailed to the
applicant at the address shown on the application. A copy of the notice shall
also be sent to the property owner, if different from the applicant, and to all
other persons who have filed a written request for notice. (Ord. 2024-6, 6-17-
2024)
11-7-10: DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENTS:
This Section provides procedures and requirements for the review and approval
of development agreements consistent with the provisions of state law.
   (A)   Applicability:
      1.   Initiation: Consideration of a development agreement may be
initiated by:
         (a)   The Council; or
         (b)   Property Owner(s) or other persons having a legal or equitable
interest in the property proposed to be subject to the agreement.
   (B)   Application Filing, Processing And Review:
      1.   Owner's Request: An owner of real property may request and apply
through the planning division to enter into a development agreement, provided
that:
         (a)   The status of the applicant as property owner or bona fide
representative of the owner is established to the satisfaction of the director
or designee;
         (b)   The application is accompanied by all documents, information,
and materials required by the planning division.
      2.   Director Review: The director or designee shall receive, review,
process, and prepare recommendations for the planning commission and Council
consideration on all applications for development agreements.
      3.   Concurrent Processing And Public Hearings: All development-related
applications shall be processed and scheduled for public hearing concurrently
with the application for a Development Agreement. The Council shall be the
review authority for the Development Agreement and all associated applications.
      4.   Fees: The application for a Development Agreement shall include the
processing fee established by the Council Fee Resolution.
   (C)   Public Hearings:
      1.   Commission Hearing: Upon finding the application for a Development
Agreement complete, the Director or designee shall set the date for a public
hearing before the Commission, in compliance with Section 11-7-8 (Public
Notices and Hearings). Following conclusion of a public hearing, the Commission
shall adopt a resolution and make a written recommendation to the Council that
it approve, conditionally approve, or deny the application.
      2.   Council Hearing: Upon receipt of the Commission's recommendation,
the City Clerk shall set a date for a public hearing before the Council in
compliance with Section 11-7-9 (Public Notices and Hearings). Following
conclusion of the public hearing, the Council shall approve, conditionally
approve, or deny the application, with appropriate findings in compliance with
subsection (C)5 (Required Findings). If the Council proposes to adopt a
substantial modification to the Development Agreement not previously considered
by the Commission during its hearings, the proposed modification shall be first
referred back to the Commission for its recommendation, in compliance with
State law (Cal. Gov't Code § 65857). Failure of the Commission to report back
to the Council within forty (40) days after the referral, or within a longer
time set by the Council, shall be deemed a recommendation for approval of the
proposed modification.
      3.   Notice Of The Hearings: Notice of the hearings, outlined in
subsection
11-7-9 (Public Notices and Hearings above), shall be given in the form of a
notice of intention to consider approval of a development agreement, in
compliance with State law (Cal. Gov't Code § 65867).
      4.   Adopting Ordinance: Should the Council approve or conditionally
approve the application, it shall, as a part of the action of approval, direct
the preparation of a Development Agreement embodying the conditions and terms
of the application as approved or conditionally approved, as well as an
ordinance authorizing execution of the development agreement by the Council, in
compliance with State law (Cal. Gov't Code § 65867.5).
      5.   Required Findings: The ordinance shall contain the following
findings, and the facts supporting them. It is the responsibility of the
applicant to establish the evidence in support of the required findings:
         (a)   The Development Agreement is in the best interests of the city,
promoting the public interest and welfare;
         (b)   The Development Agreement is consistent with all applicable
provisions of the General Plan, any applicable Specific Plan, and this Title;
         (c)   The Development Agreement is in compliance with the conditions,
requirements, restrictions, and terms of Subsections
11-7-9 (Development Agreements) and Subsection
11-7-9(D) (Contents of a Development Agreement),
   (D)   Contents Of A Development Agreement:
      1.   Mandatory Contents: A Development Agreement entered into in
compliance with this Chapter shall contain the mandatory provisions (e.g.,
conditions, requirements, restrictions, and terms) specified by State law (Cal.
Gov't Code § 65865.2 [Agreement Contents]).
      2.   Permissive Contents: A Development Agreement entered into in
compliance with this Chapter may contain the permissive provisions (e.g.,
conditions, requirements, restrictions, and terms) specified by State law (Cal.
Gov't Code § 65865.2 [Agreement Contents]), and any other terms determined to
be appropriate and necessary by the council, including provisions for the
payment to the city of monetary consideration.
   (E)   Execution And Recordation:
      1.   Effective Date: The city shall not execute any development agreement
until on or after the date on which the ordinance approving the agreement
becomes effective, and until it has been executed by the applicant.
      2.   Conditioning Approval: The provisions of this Chapter shall not be
construed to prohibit the Director or designee, Commission or Council from
conditioning approval of a discretionary permit or entitlement on the execution
of a Development Agreement, where the condition is otherwise authorized by law.
      3.   Recordation: A Development Agreement shall be recorded with the
County Recorder no later than ten (10) days after it is executed, in compliance
with State law (Cal. Gov't Code § 65868.5).
   (F)   Environmental Review:
      1.   The approval or conditional approval of a Development Agreement in
compliance with this chapter shall be deemed a discretionary act for purposes
of CEQA.
   (G)   Periodic Review:
      1.   Periodic Review: Every Development Agreement approved and executed
in compliance with this Chapter shall be subject to periodic review by the
Director or designee during the full term of the agreement.
      2.   Appropriate Fees To Purpose Of Periodic Review: Fees cover the
city's costs to conduct the periodic reviews shall be collected from the
contracting party, in compliance with Section 11-7-9(B) (Application Filing,
Processing and Review). The purpose of the periodic review shall be to
determine whether the contracting party or the successor-in-interest has
complied in good faith with the terms and conditions of the Development
Agreement. The burden of proof shall be on the applicant or contracting party
or the successor to demonstrate compliance to the full satisfaction of, and in
a manner prescribed by, the City.
      3.   Result Of Periodic Review: If, as a result of a periodic review in
compliance with this section, the Director or designee finds and determines, on
the basis of substantial evidence, that the contracting party or the successor-
in-interest has not complied in good faith with the terms or conditions of the
agreement, the Director or designee shall notify the Commission, which may
recommend to the Council that the agreement be terminated or modified.
      4.   The procedures for the termination or modification hearing shall
comply with subsection
11-7-6(H) below.
   (H)   Amendment Or Cancellation of Development Agreement: A Development
Agreement may be amended or canceled, in whole or in part, by mutual consent of
all parties to the agreement, or their successor-in-interest, in compliance
with State law (Cal. Gov't Code § 65868), or as set forth in the agreement. The
requested amendment or cancellation shall be processed in the same manner
specified by this Chapter for the adoption of a Development Agreement.
   (I)   Effect Of A Development Agreement:
      1.   Rules, Regulations And Policies: Unless otherwise provided by the
Development Agreement, the rules, regulations, and official policies governing
allowed uses of the land, density, design, improvement and construction
standards and specifications, and Building Code provisions applicable to
development of the property subject to a development agreement, are the rules,
regulations, and official policies in force at the time of execution of the
agreement.
      2.   State Law: In compliance with State law (Cal. Gov't Code § 65866),
unless specifically provided for in the Development Agreement, the agreement
does not prevent the City, in subsequent actions applicable to the property,
from applying new rules, regulations, and policies that do not conflict with
those rules, regulations, and policies applicable to the property under the
Development Agreement. Further, a Development Agreement does not prevent the
City from conditionally approving or denying any subsequent development project
application, on the basis of existing or new rules, regulations, and policies.
      3.   Approved Development Agreements: Development Agreements approved by
the Council shall be on file with the City Clerk. (Ord. 2024-6, 6-17-2024)
11-7-11: ANNEXATION:
   (A)   Purpose: The purpose of this section is to provide procedures,
requirements for the annexation of property to the city.
   (B)   Process:
      1.   Property that is subject to annexation shall be pre-zoned consistent
with the General Plan, any other applicable operative plan and annexation
criteria. If an applicant proposes to pre-zone to different zone districts than
those which are consistent with the General Plan and other operable plans, then
plan amendments which achieve consistency shall be initiated and processed.
      2.   Annexation shall not be approved unless the proposed annexation
meets all of the following criteria:
         a.   The proposed annexation and parcel configuration is consistent
with the General Plan and any applicable operative plan
         b.   Adequate public services, facilities, and utilities meeting City
standards are available to the lands proposed for annexation or will be
provided within a specific period of time, with financial guarantees and
performance requirements, to ensure this will occur.
         c.   Projects requiring annexation will not negatively impact City
finances.
         d.   The City will partner with the community, if there is wide
support for annexation, to coordinate terms to initiate and support the
annexation process.
         e.   The annexation shall be approved by the Local Agency Formation
Commission (LAFCO) of Fresno.
         f.   Legal Description and exhibit consistent with State Board of
Equalization Standards.
         g.   Permit Modifications and Revocations.
      3.   Any request to modify a planning permit may be approved by the
Decision Body by amending existing conditions or adding new conditions after
following the same procedures as for applying for such permit.
Any planning permit may be revoked if any of the following apply:
         (a)   Failure to utilize any use permit granted by the City within
twelve (12) months after the effective date of issuance unless a written
request for extension is submitted to the Planning Commission thirty (30) days
prior to the expiration of the permit. The Planning Commission shall review the
request at its next regular meeting and may grant or conditionally grant an
extension as it deems appropriate.
         (b)   One or more of the terms or conditions upon which a permit was
granted has been violated.
         (c)   The use for which the permit was granted is conducted in a
manner that is detrimental to the public health, safety, or welfare or that
creates a nuisance, after the owner or other person responsible for the
operation of the premises has been placed on notice by the City that such
conditions exist and has failed to correct the objectional conditions.
         (d)   The Commission shall hold a hearing prior to the revocation of
any use permit. Written notice shall be given at least ten (10) days prior to
the hearing to the permittee at the address of the property subject to the
permit; or if the property is unimproved, to the address of the owner as shown
on the last equalized assessment roll in the office of the Assessor of the
County.
 
Table 7-1   Revocation Authority
Original Decision-  May Initiate                      Public Notice and
Makin g Body        Revocation   Revocation Authority Posting of the Site?
                    Proceedings?
Director            Yes          Planning Commission  Yes
Planning Commission Yes          Planning Commission  Yes
City Council        Yes          City Council         Yes
 
(Ord. 2024-6, 6-17-2024)
11-7-12: ENFORCEMENT:
This Chapter provides procedures intended to ensure compliance with the
requirements of this Title and the conditions of land use permit approval
pursuant to Title I Chapter 20 and Chapter 21 of the Municipal Code.
   (A)   Violations:
      1.   Public Nuisance: Any use, structure, or property altered, enlarged,
erected, established, maintained, moved or operated contrary to the provisions
of this Title, or any condition of approval, is hereby declared to be unlawful
and a public nuisance, and may be abated by the City through civil proceedings
by means of a restraining order, preliminary or permanent injunction, or in any
other manner provided by law for the abatement of such nuisances.
      2.   Stop Work Order: Construction in violation of this Title, or any
condition imposed through this Title, shall be subject to the issuance of a
Stop Work Order. A violation of a Stop Work Order shall constitute a
misdemeanor.
      3.   Penalty: Any violation of this Title, or failure to comply with any
of its provisions, shall be deemed to be a misdemeanor, and punishable as such,
notwithstanding the fact that, at the discretion of the City Attorney,
violation of any section of this Title may be prosecuted as an infraction. Each
day a violation of any provision of this Title continues shall be a new and
separate violation.
   (B)   Inspection: Every owner and applicant seeking an approval, or any
other action through this section, shall allow authorized City officials, or
their designees, reasonable access to any premises or property that is the
subject of the approval or other action. Once approval or other action has been
granted in compliance with this Title, the owner or applicant shall allow
authorized City officials, or their designees, access to the premises, where
there is reasonable cause to believe the premises or property is not in
compliance with the approval or other action.
   (C)   Additional Permit Processing Fees: Any person who establishes a land
use, or alters, constructs, enlarges, erects, maintains, or moves a structure
without first obtaining a permit required by this Title, or any condition
imposed through this Title, shall pay the additional permit processing fees
established by the Council Fee Resolution for the correction of the violation,
before being granted a permit for a use or structure on the site. (Ord. 2024-6,
6-17-2024)
11-7-13: FEES:
   (A)   Filing Fees:
      1.   The rates and fees for the following zoning related activities,
permits, and violations shall be set in the Master Fee Schedule as adopted by
the Council.
         (a)   Planning Permits;
         (b)   Zoning District Confirmation Letters;
         (c)   Site Plan Reviews;
         (d)   Director Review and Approvals;
         (e)   Conditional Use Permit;
         (f)   Variance;
         (g)   Temporary Use Permit;
         (h)   Modification and Revocation;
         (i)   Rezones/Prezones;
         (j)   Zoning Ordinance Text and Zoning District Amendments;
         (k)   General Plan Amendments;
         (l)   Annexation; and
         (m)   Appeals. (Ord. 2024-6, 6-17-2024)
CHAPTER 8
DEFINITIONS/USE CLASSIFICATIONS
SECTION:
11-8-1: Definitions
11-8-2: Use Classifications
11-8-1: DEFINITIONS:
ABANDONMENT: The cessation of the use of the property for a period of one year
or more.
ABATEMENT: Eliminating a zoning ordinance violation.
ABUT: To physically touch or border upon; or to share a common property line.
ACCESSORY DWELLING UNIT (ADU): An attached or a detached residential dwelling
unit that provides complete independent living facilities for one or more
persons and is located on a lot with an existing primary single-family
residence. An ADU must include permanent provisions for living including
sleeping, eating, cooking, and sanitation as described in Section
11-4-2 (ADUs and Junior ADUs), below. An ADU can be located on the same lot as
a primary residence and may be an efficiency unit, a traditional stick-built
structure, or a manufactured home. An ADU may be attached (to the existing
single-family residence) or detached, provided the unit complies with all
standards in this Zoning Ordinance. The conversion of garages, sheds, barns,
and other existing accessory structures, either attached or detached from the
primary dwelling, into ADUs is also permitted.
ACCESSORY STRUCTURE: A structure or building, part of a building, or structure
containing no kitchen or bathroom and located upon the same lot or parcel as
the principal use or structure. The structure is customary, incidental,
appropriate, and subordinate to the use of the principal building, or the
principal use of the land. All accessory structures shall be constructed with,
or subsequent to, the construction of the principal structure or activation of
the principal use.
ACCESSORY USE: A use naturally and normally incidental to, subordinate to, and
devoted exclusively to the principal use of the premises.
ACRE: A land area unit containing 43,560 square feet.
ADDITION: Any construction which increases the size of an existing building
such as a porch, attached garage or carport, or new room. An addition is a form
of alteration.
ADJACENT: Near, close, or abutting; for example, an industrial zone across a
street or highway from a residential zone shall be considered "adjacent."
ADJOIN: The same as "Abut."
ADULT BUSINESS: Any business establishment or concern that, as a regular and
substantial course of conduct, performs or operates as an adult arcade, adult
cabaret, adult model studio, adult store, adult theater, or any combination
thereof, See Section
11-4-8.
ADVERTISING STRUCTURE: Any notice or advertisement, pictorial or otherwise, and
all such structures used as an outdoor display, regardless of size or shape,
for the purpose of advertising property or the establishment or enterprise,
including goods and services which are not located on the same property as said
advertising structure.
AESTHETIC: The perception of artistic elements, or elements in the natural or
manmade environment which are pleasing to the eye.
AGRICULTURAL PRODUCT PROCESSING: The refinement, treatment, or conversion of
agricultural products. Examples of agricultural processing include, but are not
limited to, packing sheds, fruit dehydrators, cold storage houses and hulling
operations and the sorting, cleaning, packing, and storing of agricultural
products preparatory to sale and/or shipment in their natural form when such
products are produced on the premises, including all uses customarily
incidental thereto, but not including a slaughter house, fertilizer works,
commercial packing or processing plant for the reduction of animal matter or
any other use which is similarly objectionable because of odor, smoke, dust,
fumes, vibration or danger to life or property.
AGRICULTURAL USE: The tilling of soil, the raising of crops, horticulture,
viticulture, aviculture, apiculture, livestock grazing, the raising of small
animals and poultry, domestic livestock farming, dairying, and animal
husbandry.
AIRPORT: Any area which is customarily used or intended for use for the landing
and taking off of aircraft and any appurtenant areas which are used or intended
for use for airport buildings or other airport facilities or rights-of-way,
together with all airport buildings and facilities located thereon.
ALLEY: A public thoroughfare or way not less than ten feet (10') nor more than
twenty feet (20') in width, serving as a secondary means of access to abutting
property, and which has been deeded or dedicated to the city.
ALTERATION: Any change, addition or modification that changes the exterior
architectural appearance or materials of a structure or object. Alteration
includes changes in exterior surfaces, changes in materials, additions,
remodels, demolitions, and relocation of buildings or structures, but excludes
ordinary maintenance and repairs.
AMBIENT NOISE: The background sound pressure level at any given location.
AMENDMENT: A change in the working, context, or substance of the Zoning
Ordinance, as addition or deletion, or a change in zone boundaries or
classifications (Zoning District) upon the zoning map which imposes any
regulation not theretofore imposed or removes or modifies any such regulation
theretofore imposed.
ANIMAL CARE: The care and maintenance of animals on private property.
ANNEXED: To have land be incorporated into the City of Selma with a resulting
change in the boundaries of the City.
ARTS COUNCIL: The Arts Council of the City of Selma.
ASSESSOR: The county assessor of the county of Fresno.
ATTACHED: Two (2) structures which are structurally integrated with each other
by supporting members shall be considered attached.
BARBED WIRE: Wire for fences or barriers having sharp barbs or points of metal
twisted into smooth wire at regular intervals.
BILLBOARD: Any sign containing advertising, not appurtenant to any permitted
use, over six square feet in area.
BUILDING: Any structure having a roof supported by columns or by walls and
designed for the housing or enclosure of any person, animal, or chattel.
BUILDING CODE: Any ordinance of the City governing the type and method of
construction of buildings, signs, and sign structures and any amendments
thereto and any substitute therefore including, but not limited to, the
California Building Code, other State-adopted uniform codes and the Minimum
Building Security Standards Ordinance.
BUILDING ENVELOPE: The aggregate of building mass and building bulk permitted
on a parcel which is defined by height regulations, setbacks, and other
property development standards.
BUILDING HEIGHT: The vertical distance from the average level of the highest
and lowest point of that portion of the lot covered by the building to the
topmost point of the roof.
BUILDING, PRINCIPAL: A building in which is conducted the principal use of the
lot on which it is situated. In any R zone, any dwelling shall be deemed to be
a main building on the lot on which the same is situated.
BUILDING OFFICIAL: The individual appointed by the city administrator to
enforce the building code and to act as the code enforcement officer for
provisions of the Zoning Ordinance.
BUILDING SITE: A parcel or parcels of land occupied or to be occupied, by a
main building and accessory buildings together with such open spaces as are
required by the terms of this title and having its principal frontage on a
street, road, highway, or waterway.
BUSINESS: The purchase, sale or other transaction involving the handling or
disposition (other than that included in term "Industry" as defined herein) of
any article, substance or commodity for profit or a livelihood, including in
addition, operation of automobile or trailer courts, tourists courts and
motels, public garages, office buildings, offices of doctors and other
professionals, outdoor advertising signs and structures, public stables,
recreational and amusement enterprises conducted for profit, shops for the sale
of personal services, places where commodities or services are sold or are
offered for sale, either by direct handling of merchandise or by agreements to
furnish them, but not including dumps and junkyards.
CALIFORNIA DEPARTMENT OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE CONTROL (ABC): The California State
agency that regulates the permitting of alcohol beverage sales, including the
sale of beer, wine, and distilled spirits.
CALIFORNIA ENVIRONMENTAL QUALITY ACT (CEQA): A state law which requires local
and state agencies to determine the potential environmental impacts of a
proposed project.
CARPORT: A permanently roofed structure providing space for parking or
temporary storage of vehicles enclosed on not more than two sides.
CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY: A document issued by the building official allowing
the occupancy or use of a building and certifying that the structure or use has
been constructed or will be used in compliance with all the applicable
municipal codes and ordinances.
CHANGE IN USE: Any use which substantially differs from the previous use of a
building or land. The Community Development Director or designee shall
determine whether a change is substantial or not. Change of ownership shall not
be considered a change of use.
CHURCH: Means, but shall not necessarily be confined to, any building,
structure, or open space where a group of two (2) or more persons, not
immediate members of one family only, regularly gather for purposes of divine
worship.
CITY: The City of Selma.
CITY COUNCIL or COUNCIL: The City Council of the City of Selma.
CITY MANAGER: The City Manager of the City of Selma or the designee or
designees of the City Manager.
CITY PROPERTY: All real property and improvements owned, operated, or
controlled by the City other than public ROW, within the City's jurisdiction.
City property includes, but is not limited to, City offices and owned
facilities, streetlights, and traffic lights.
CLUB: An association of persons for some common nonprofit purpose, but not
including groups organized primarily to render a service which is customarily
carried on as a business.
COMMERCIAL DISTRICTS: Those zoning districts with a commercial designation of
(C).
COMPENSATION: Compensation in money, services, or other things of value.
CONDOMINIUM: An undivided interest in common in a portion of real property
coupled with a separate interest in space called a unit, the boundaries of
which are described on a recorded final map, parcel map or condominium plan in
sufficient detail to locate all boundaries thereof, and as further defined in
Section 1351 of the Civil Code of the state of California.
CONSTRUCTION: Construction, erection, enlargement, alteration, conversion or
movement of any building, structures, or land together with any scientific
surveys associated therewith.
CONVERSION: A change in the use of land, structure, or activity.
CONTIGUOUS: The same as "Abut."
CONVICTION: A finding of guilty by a jury or court, or a plea of guilty or nolo
contendere.
COUNTY: The County of Fresno.
COURT: A person or body of persons having judicial authority to hear and
resolve disputes in civil, criminal, ecclesiastical, or military cases.
COVENANT: A promise in a written contract or a deed of real property.
CPCN: A "certificate of public convenience and necessity" granted by the CPUC
or its duly appointed successor agency pursuant to California Public Utilities
Code Section 1001 et seq.
CPUC: The California Public Utilities Commission established in the California
Constitution, Article XII, Section 5, or its duly appointed successor agency.
CUL-DE-SAC: A street or passage closed at one end.
CULTIVATION: When referring to cannabis, means any activity involving the
planting, growing, harvesting, drying, curing, grading, storing, or trimming of
cannabis.
DAY CARE CENTER: An institution that provides supervision and care of infants
and young children during the daytime.
DECK: A platform, either freestanding or attached to a building that is used
for outdoor space. It typically extends from the façade of a building and is
supported by pillars or posts but may be located on a flat portion of a
building, such as a roof or setback. It is distinct from a Patio.
DEMOLITION: The destruction, dismantling, or removal of a building or
structure, or substantial portion of a building or structure so that it
constitutes demolition pursuant to the provisions of this Code.
DENSITY: The maximum number of dwelling units permitted per specified area of
land.
DETACHED: Not sharing a common wall or roof.
DEVELOPER: The legal or beneficial owner or owners of a lot or of any land
included in a proposed development including the holder of an option or
contract to purchase, or other persons having enforceable proprietary interests
in such land.
DEVELOPMENT: Any change to unimproved or improved real property including, but
not limited to, the placement, construction, reconstruction, conversion,
structural alteration, or enlargement of any structure; any mining, excavation,
landfill, or land disturbance. Agriculture is not defined as development within
Zoning Ordinance.
DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT: An agreement between the City and any person having a
legal or equitable interest in real property for the development of such
property and which complies with the applicable provisions of the Government
Code Section 65864 et seq., and local law for such development agreements
pursuant to Section
11-7-10, Development Agreements.
DEVELOPMENT STANDARD: Those development requirements of each zoning district or
combining district which apply to permitted uses by setting forth minimum
requirements or specifications for lot dimensions, setbacks, and height limits;
amount of land covered by buildings and structures; animal densities; parking
and signs. A development standard can only be modified by a variance or zoning
ordinance amendment.
DIRECTOR: The director of planning and development services of the City or
person responsible for planning and development services in the City.
DISTRICT: The same as "Zone" or "Zoning District."
DRAINAGE: Any natural or artificial watercourse, trench, ditch, swale, or
similar depression into which surface water flows.
DRIVE-IN and DRIVE-THROUGH FACILITIES: Drive-through or Drive-up facilities. An
establishment that sells products or provides services to occupants in
vehicles, including drive-in or drive-up windows and drive-through services.
Drive-through facilities include (but not limited to) the following
establishments: car wash, fast food restaurant, café, pharmacy, and bank.
DRIVEWAY: Any vehicular access to an off-street parking or loading facility.
DUPLEX: A building containing not more than two (2) kitchens, designed and/or
used to house not more than two (2) families, living independently of each
other, including all necessary employees of each family.
DWELLING: A building or portion thereof designed exclusively for single-family
residential occupancy, but not including hotels, clubs, or boarding houses or
any institution such as an asylum, hospital, or jail where human beings are
housed by reason of illness or under legal restraint.
DWELLING, MULTIPLE: A building, or portion thereof, used, designed, or intended
as a residence for three or more families living independently of each other,
and doing their own cooking in the building, including apartment houses,
apartment hotels and flats.
DWELLING UNIT: Two (2) or more rooms in a dwelling, or an apartment designed
for occupancy by one family for living and sleeping purposes and having only
one kitchen.
EASEMENT: The right to use the real property of another for a specific purpose.
EAVE: The projecting lower edges of a roof overhanging the wall of a building.
EFFECTIVE DATE: The date on which a permit or other approval becomes
enforceable or otherwise takes effect, rather than the date it was signed or
circulated.
EGRESS: A point of vehicle exit from a parking area, lot, garage, or driveway.
EMERGENCY: A sudden unexpected occurrence demanding immediate action to prevent
or mitigate loss or damage to life, health, property, or essential public
services.
ENVIRONMENTAL REVIEW: An evaluation process pursuant to CEQA to determine
whether a proposed project may have a significant impact on the environment.
ERECT: To build, build upon, add to, alter, construct, reconstruct, move upon,
or any physical operation upon the land required for a building.
FEASIBLE: Capable of being accomplished in a successful manner within a
reasonable period of time, taking into account environmental, physical, legal,
financial, and technological factors.
FEDERAL: The government of the United States of America.
FEE: A payment to the City for the processing of a permit or license
application by a City Agency or Department.
FENCE: An artificially constructed barrier of any material or combination of
materials erected to enclose or screen an area of land. Fences may also be
walls, hedges and screen planting.
FIRE CODE: An ordinance of the City adopting and amending the California Fire
Code governing fire and life safety protection for new and existing buildings
and facilities.
FLOOR AREA, GROSS: A development standard defined as the total horizontal area
of all floors of a building as measured to the surfaces of exterior walls and
including corridors, stairways, elevator shafts, attached garages, porches,
balconies, basements, and offices.
FRONTAGE: That portion of a parcel of property which abuts a public street or
approved private street or highway, measured along the future street line as
indicated in the general plan.
GARAGE, PRIVATE: A detached accessory building or portion of a main building
for the parking or temporary storage of automobiles of the occupants of the
premises.
GARAGE, PUBLIC: A building used for the care, repair, or equipment of
automobiles, or where such vehicles are parked or stored for remuneration,
hire, or sale.
GARAGE (OR YARD) SALE: Any sale, conducted on premises within a residential
district upon which is located a dwelling, by any occupant of such dwelling, of
any personal property which is owned and has been used by such occupant. The
term "garage sale" does not include a sale of one or two items of personal
property which is not part of a general sale of items of personal property.
GARAGE SPACE: A permanently maintained covered space of not less than eight by
nineteen feet (8' x 19') for the parking of automobiles off the street. Such
space shall be located and arranged for an accessory building and with adequate
ingress and egress.
GENERAL PLAN: The City of Selma General Plan.
GLARE: The effect produced by a light source within the visual field that is
sufficiently brighter than the level to which the eyes are adapted, such as to
cause annoyance, discomfort or loss of visual performance and ability.
GOVERNMENT CODE: The Government Code of California.
GOVERNMENT FACILITIES: A building or structure owned, operated, or occupied by
a governmental agency to provide a governmental service to the public.
GRADE: The gradient, the rate of incline or decline expressed as a percent. For
example, a rise of twenty-five feet (25') in a horizontal distance of one
hundred feet (100') would be expressed as a grade of twenty-five percent (25%).
HABITABLE SPACE: As defined in Section 202 of the California Building Code.
HABITATION: Regular and exclusive use of a space or structure for shelter and
other residential purposes in a manner that is private and separate from
another residence on the same parcel.
HAZARDOUS MATERIALS: Any material, including any substance, waste, or
combination thereof, which because of its quantity, concentration, or physical,
chemical, or infectious characteristics may cause, or significantly contribute
to, a substantial present or potential hazard to human health, safety,
property, or the environment when improperly treated, stored, transported,
disposed of, or otherwise managed.
HEDGE: A boundary or barrier of plant material formed by a row or series of
shrubs, bushes, trees, or other similar vegetation that enclose, divide, or
protect an area or that prevent a person from passing between any combination
of individual shrubs, bushes, trees, or other similar vegetation.
HOME OCCUPATION: A commercial use conducted on residential property by the
inhabitants of the subject residence, which is incidental and secondary to the
residential use of the dwelling.
HOUSEHOLD: One or more persons living together in a single dwelling unit, with
access to and use of all common living and eating areas and all common areas
and facilities for the preparation and storage of food and who maintain a
single mortgage, lease, or rental agreement for all members of the household.
ILLEGAL USE: Any use of land or building that does not have the currently
required permits and was originally constructed and/or established without
permits or approvals required for the use at the time it was brought into
existence.
INCIDENTAL: Secondary, accessory and subordinate to another use, structure, or
activity.
INFRASTRUCTURE: Facilities and services needed to sustain industry,
residential, commercial activities, and all other land use activities,
including water, sewer lines, and other utilities, streets and roads,
communications, and public facilities such as fire stations, parks, schools,
etc.
INGRESS: A point of vehicle entrance to a parking area, lot, garage, or
driveway.
INTENSITY OF USE: The extent to which a particular use or the use in
combination with other uses affects the natural and built environment in which
it is located, the demand for services, and persons who live, work, and visit
the area. Measures of intensity include, but are not limited to, requirements
for water, gas, electricity, or public services; number of automobile trips
generated by a use; parking demand; number of employees on a site; hours of
operation; the amount of noise, light or glare generated; the number of persons
attracted to the site, or, in eating establishments, the number of seats.
INTERIOR LOT: A lot whose front yard abuts a street.
JUNIOR ACCESSORY DWELLING UNIT (JADU): A dwelling unit that is no more than
five hundred (500) square feet in size and contained entirely within the walls
of an existing single-family residence. A JADU must have an exterior entrance
separate from the main entrance of the primary residence. A JADU may include
separate sanitation facilities or may share sanitation facilities with the
primary residence. Further, a JADU must include at least an efficiency kitchen,
which includes a cooking facility with appliances and a food preparation
counter and storage cabinets.
KITCHEN: Any room in a building or dwelling unit which is used for cooking or
preparation of food.
LANDSCAPING: The planting and continued maintenance of suitable plant materials
or a combination of plant materials within minimum areas of paving, gravel,
otherwise dust-free. An adequate irrigation system is required.
LOADING AREA: A permanently maintained space located off the street with access
for the parking, loading, and unloading of vehicles. Whenever the provisions of
this title shall require loading space, such space shall be in addition to any
required parking space and/or garage space.
LOT: See "Building Site".
LOT, CORNER: A lot or parcel situated at the intersection of two (2) or more
intersecting streets.
LOT COVERAGE: The portion of the lot that is covered by buildings and
structures.
LOT, CUL-DE-SAC: A lot or parcel with at least half of its frontage abutting a
cul-de-sac.
LOT, INTERIOR: A lot or parcel other than a corner lot.
LOT, REVERSE CORNER: A corner lot which rears upon the side of another lot,
whether separated by an alley or not.
LOT, THROUGH: A lot having frontage on two parallel or approximately parallel
streets.
LOT DEPTH: The horizontal distance between the front and rear lot lines,
measured in the mean direction of the side lot lines.
LOT LINE: The lines bounding a lot.
LOT LINE, FRONT: The property line dividing a lot from a street. On a corner
lot the shorter street frontage shall be considered the front lot line.
LOT LINE, REAR: The line opposite the front lot line.
LOT LINE, SIDE: Lot lines other than front lot lines or rear lot lines.
LOT WIDTH: The horizontal distance between the side lot lines, measured at
right angles to the lot depth at a point midway between the front and rear lot
lines.
LOW BARRIER NAVIGATION:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b007bab647711b625891d40e4fcc5f1077aea100/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4015.jpg]
Figure 4-3 Setbacks
MAXIMUM HEIGHT: A development standard which limits the height of buildings and
structures.
MAXIMUM LOT COVERAGE: The amount of lot area coverage allowed for buildings and
structures.
MICROBREWERY: A limited-production brewery, typically producing specialty beers
and often selling its products only locally.
MINIMUM LOT SIZE: A development standard which is the smallest area a lot may
be divided into.
MIXED-USE DEVELOPMENT: The development of a parcel or building with two (2) or
more different land uses such as, but not limited to, a combination of
residential, office, manufacturing, retail, public, or entertainment in a
single or physically integrated group of structures.
MOBILE HOME LOT: A plot of land for placement of a single mobile home within a
mobile home park.
MOBILE HOME PARK: An area or tract of land where one or more mobile home lots
are rented or leased or held out for rent or lease to accommodate mobile homes
used for human habitation.
MULTI-FAMILY DWELLING: A building designed for or occupied by two or more
families living independently of each other.
NONCONFORMING SIGN: Any sign lawfully existing on the effective date of the
zoning ordinance codified in zoning ordinance or an amendment thereto, which
renders such sign nonconforming because it does not conform to all the
standards and regulations of the adopted or amended ordinance.
NONCONFORMING STRUCTURE: A structure that complied with zoning ordinance and
development regulations at the time it was built but which, because of
subsequent changes to the zoning ordinance and/or development regulations, no
longer fully complies with those regulations.
NONCONFORMING USE: A use which lawfully occupied a building or land prior to
passage of an ordinance affecting that use, and which does not conform with the
use regulations of the zone in which it is located.
NOTICE OF APPEAL: A document which indicates that an applicant for a permit or
zoning ordinance amendment, or an affected party, wishes to appeal a decision
of a planning officer or body of the City of Selma.
OPEN SPACE TYPES:
   OPEN SPACE, COMMON: Any area any outdoor area, not dedicated for public use,
which is designed and intended for the common use and enjoyment of the
residents and guests of more than one dwelling unit.
   OPEN SPACE, PRIVATE: An outdoor area within a development project designed
and maintained for the exclusive use of residents/tenants, their invited
guests, or club members, including, but not necessarily limited to, golf
courses, lakes and water features, parks (active and passive), tennis courts,
and other recreational facilities allowable within a planned residential
development.
   OPEN SPACE, PUBLIC: An outdoor area proposed on public land designated and
intended for the use or enjoyment of the general public.
   OPEN SPACE, USABLE: Outdoor areas that provide for outdoor living and/or
recreation for the use of residents.
OUTDOOR DINING: Any outdoor cafe, sidewalk cafe, eating area or any food
service accessory to a restaurant.
OUTDOOR RECREATIONAL FACILITIES (PUBLIC AND PRIVATE): Facilities operated by
public or private entities for various outdoor participant sports and/or types
of recreational activities where a fee may be charged for use.
OUTDOOR STORAGE: The storage of supplies, materials, products, motor vehicles
or other articles outside of a building and left uncovered by roofs or walls.
Outdoor storage may be screened.
OVERLAY DISTRICT: A zoning designation specifically delineated on the
Districting Map establishing land use requirements that govern in addition to
the standards set forth in the underlying base district.
OWNER: Any of the following: a person with an aggregate ownership interest of
twenty percent (20%) or more in the person's business applying for a regulatory
permit or permittee, unless the interest is solely a security, lien, or
encumbrance; the chief executive officer of a nonprofit or other entity; a
member of the board of directors of a nonprofit or other entity; or an
individual who will be participating in the direction, control, or management
of the person applying for the regulatory permit or permittee.
PARAPET: A low wall or railing extending above the roof and along its
perimeter.
PARKING AREA: An accessible and usable area on the building site located off
the street with access for the parking of automobiles.
PARKING AREA, PRIVATE: An area, other than a street, restricted from general
public use and used for the parking of automotive vehicles capable of moving
under their own power.
PARKING AREA, PUBLIC: An area, other than a private parking area or street,
used for the parking of vehicles capable of moving under their own power,
either free or for remuneration.
PARKING, BICYCLE: A covered or uncovered area equipped with a rack or other
device designed and useable for the secure, temporary storage of bicycles.
   LONG-TERM-BICYCLE PARKING: Parking that is designed to serve employees,
students, residents, commuters, and others who generally stay at a site for
three (3) hours or longer.
   SHORT-TERM-BICYCLE PARKING: Parking that is designed to serve shoppers,
customers, messengers, guests, and other visitors to a site who generally stay
for a period of less than four (4) hours.
PARKING SPACE: An area, covered or uncovered, designed and usable for the
temporary storage of a vehicle, which is paved and accessible by an automobile
without permanent obstruction.
PATIO: An outdoor area, often paved, adjoining a building that is used for
outdoor open space. It is not enclosed by walls and typically is located at
grade or supported by minimal footings.
PAVING: A type of material used over areas of a parcel such as driveways,
parking spaces and areas, pathways, patios, and front setbacks used for access
by vehicles and pedestrians.
PERMIT: Written governmental permission issued by an authorized official,
empowering the holder thereof to do some act not forbidden by law, but not
allowed without such authorization.
PERMITTED USE: Any use or structure that is allowed in a zoning district
without a requirement for approval of a Use Permit, but subject to any
restrictions applicable to that zoning district.
PERSON: Any individual, firm, co-partnership, joint venture, corporation,
company, association, joint association, or body politic, including any
trustee, receiver, syndicate, assignee, or other similar representative
thereof.
PLANNING COMMISSION: The Planning Commission of the City of Selma.
PLANNED DEVELOPMENT: A large, integrated residential development located on a
single building site, or on two (2) or more building sites. In such
development, the land and structures shall be planned and developed as a whole
in a single development operation or a series of developments in accordance
with a master plan.
PRE-EXISTING: In existence prior to the effective date of this title.
PREMISES: A lot, parcel, tract, or plot of land together with the buildings and
structures thereon.
PRINCIPAL USE: The primary, predominate, or initial use of any lot. For
guidance, in an agricultural district, the principal use of the land would be
farming or ranching. An accessory use would be the farmhouse.
PROJECT: Any proposal for a new or changed use or for new construction,
alteration, or enlargement of any structure, that is subject to the provisions
of this title. This term includes, but is not limited to, any action that
qualifies as a "project" as defined by the California Environmental Quality
Act.
PROPERTY DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS: Any definitive measurable characteristic or
aspect of a development, specified by this title, such as but not limited to
yard setbacks, parking, building height, space between buildings, lot area and
dimensions, defined linear distances such as for signs, spacing requirements,
and size of districts.
PROPERTY LINE: The same as "Lot line."
PROVISIONS: Includes all regulations and requirements referred to in the text
of the zoning ordinance.
PUBLIC NOTICE: The announcement of a public hearing in a letter or newspaper of
general circulation in the area, indicating the time, place, and nature of the
public hearing.
PUBLIC RESOURCES CODE: The Public Resources Code of the State of California.
PUBLIC RIGHT OF WAY or PROW or PUBLIC ROW: The improved or unimproved surface
of and the space above and below a City easement for public utility purposes or
transportation access, or similar public way of any nature, dedicated or
improved for vehicular, bicycle and/or pedestrian related use held or managed
by City, however acquired.
PUBLIC UTILITY: Production, storage, transmission, switching and recovery
facilities for water, sewerage, energy, communications, and other similar
utilities owned or operated by a business organization and subject to the
jurisdiction of the public utilities commission.
QUALIFIED APPLICANT: The property owner, the owner's agent, or any person or
other legal entity that has a legal or equitable interest in land that is the
subject of a development proposal or is the holder of an option or contract to
purchase such land or otherwise has an enforceable proprietary interest in such
land.
QUASI-PUBLIC: An educational or religious type include public and parochial
elementary schools, junior high schools, high schools, and colleges; child day
care centers, private nonprofit schools, and colleges; churches, parsonages,
and other religious institutions.
REASONABLE ACCOMMODATION: A type of discretionary permit that, if approved,
would provide for persons with disabilities seeking equal access to housing
under the California Fair Employment and Housing Act, the Federal Fair Housing
Act, and the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) in the application of
building and zoning laws and other land use policies, procedures, laws, rules,
and regulations.
RECREATIONAL FACILITIES: Any use or development, either public or private,
providing amusements, pleasures, or sport, which is operated or carried on
primarily for financial gain, including, but not limited to, bowling alleys,
skating rinks, and billiard parlors.
RELIGIOUS FACILITIES: A place of worship is a specially designed structure or
consecrated space where individuals or a group of people such as a congregation
come to perform acts of devotion, veneration, or religious study.
RESIDENTIAL LOT: A lot containing, or zoned for, one or more dwelling units in
a residential district.
RESTRICTION: A limitation on property which may be created in a property deed,
lease, mortgage, through certain zoning district or subdivision regulations, or
as a condition of approval of an application for development.
RETAIL SHOP: A business of selling goods, wares, or merchandise directly to the
ultimate consumer.
REVIEW AUTHORITY: The individual or official City body (the Director, Council,
Commission, or Board) and others as identified in the Selma Municipal Code as
having the responsibility and authority to review and approve or deny land use
permit applications.
REZONING: The same as "zone, change of."
RIGHT-OF-WAY: A strip of land acquired by reservation, dedication, forced
dedication, prescription or condemnation and intended to be occupied or
occupied by a road, railroad, electric transmission lines, oil or gas pipeline,
water line, sanitary storm sewer or other similar use.
ROOF: That portion of a building or structure above walls or columns that
shelters the floor area or the structure below.
ROOM: An unsubdivided portion of the interior of a dwelling unit, excluding
bathroom, kitchen, closets, hallways, and service porches.
SCHOOL OR EDUCATIONAL FACILITIES: An institution of learning which offers
instruction in several branches of study required to be taught in the public
schools by the Education Code of the State of California.
SENIOR HOUSING: Any residential accommodation other than a mobile home
developed, substantially rehabilitated, or substantially renovated for senior
citizens.
SERVICE STATION: The same as a gas station, typically one having the facilities
to provide automotive repairs and maintenance.
SETBACK, FRONT YARD: The line which defines the depth of the required front
yard.
SETBACK, REAR YARD OR SIDE YARD: The line which defines the width or depth of
the required rear or side yard.
SHOPPING CENTER: A group of commercial/retail stores with a common parking area
and generally one or more large department, discount, or food stores; sometimes
including an enclosed mall or walkway constructed and managed as a total entity
with customer and employee parking provided on-site, provision for goods
delivery separated from customer access, aesthetic considerations, and
protection from the elements.
SHORT-TERM RENTAL: A dwelling unit, rented in whole or in part, to any persons
(s) for transient use of thirty (30) consecutive days or less. A dwelling unit
within a hotel, motel, or bed and breakfast shall not be considered a short-
term rental.
SIDEWALK: A paved, surfaced, or leveled area, paralleling and usually separated
from the street, used as a pedestrian walkway.
SIDEWALK CAFÉ: Any outdoor dining area located in or adjacent to any public
sidewalk or right-of-way which is associated with a restaurant or other eating
and drinking establishment on a contiguous adjacent parcel.
SIGN: Any object, device, display or structure, or part thereof, situated
outdoors or indoors, which is used to advertise, display, direct, or attract
attention to an object, person, institution, organization, business product,
service, event, or location by any means, including words, letters, figures,
symbols, colors, illumination, or projected images. This definition shall not
include official notices issued by a court or public body or officer or
directional, warning or information signs or structures required by or
authorized by law or by federal, State, or County or city authority.
SIGN, ADVERTISING: The business or enterprise of promotion of the messages of
others, usually for a fee or other consideration, in contrast to self-
promotion. This term has the same meaning as "general advertising".
SIGN, FREESTANDING: Any mobile or portable sign, not securely attached to the
ground or any other structure.
SINGLE-FAMILY DWELLING: See "Dwelling."
SITE: In general terms means any plot or parcel of land or combination of
contiguous lots or parcels of land.
SITE PLAN: A plan, prepared to scale, showing proposed uses and structures for
a parcel of land, including such details necessary to illustrate the final
proposed use and development.
SITE PLAN REVIEW: A permit process that establishes criteria for the layout,
scale, appearance, safety, and environmental impacts of a proposed development
to ensure conformance to city standards and criteria.
SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM: Any solar collector or other solar energy device,
certified pursuant to State law, along with its ancillary equipment, whose
primary purpose is to provide for the collection, storage, and distribution of
solar energy for space heating, space cooling, electric generation, or water
heating, or any structural design feature of a building, whose primary purpose
is to provide for the collection, storage, and distribution of solar energy for
electricity generation, space heating or cooling, or for water heating.
SPECIAL EVENT: An establishment or enterprise involving large assemblages of
people or automobiles on private land including, but not limited to, a carnival
or circus; automobile, boat, or foot race; rodeo; outdoor concert, play or
festival involving more than one hundred people; professional golf or tennis
tournament.
STORY: The portion of a building including between the surface of any floor and
the surface of the floor next above it, or if there be no floor above it, then
the space between such floor and ceiling next above it.
STREET: A public thoroughfare or road easement not less than twenty feet (20')
in width, which affords principal means of access to abutting property, but not
including an alley.
STREET LINE: The boundary between a street and property.
STREET SIDE: A street bounding a corner lot, adjacent to a sideline of the lot.
STRUCTURAL ALTERATIONS: Any change in the supporting members of a building,
such as bearing walls, columns, beams, girders, floor joists, or roof joists,
for which a building permit is required.
STRUCTURE: Anything constructed or erected, the use of which requires more or
less permanent location on or in the ground or attachment to something having a
permanent location on or in the ground, including but not limited to site-built
swimming pools, gazebos, carports, patio covers. This definition does not
include walls and fences less than three feet six inches (3'6") in height when
located in front yards, or less than six feet (6') in height when located in
side or rear yards, or other improvements of a minor character.
STRUCTURE, TEMPORARY: A structure which is readily movable and used or intended
to be used for a period not to exceed ninety (90) consecutive days. Such
structure shall be subject to all applicable property development standards for
the zone in which it is located.
SWIMMING POOL: Any permanent structure containing a body of water, having a
depth of at least eighteen inches (18"), intended for recreational uses, and
shall include wading pools.
TEMPORARY USE: A term applied to certain uses requiring a temporary use permit
which are only permitted for a limited time.
TENANT: An occupant of land or premises who occupies, uses, and enjoys real
property for a fixed time, usually through a lease arrangement with the
property owner and with the owner's consent.
TRAILER: A vehicle without motive power, designed, and constructed to travel on
the public thoroughfares in accordance with the provisions of the State Vehicle
Code, and to be used for human habitation or for carrying property, including a
trailer coach.
UNDERUTILIZED: A lot or parcel that is mostly vacant, is blighted or severely
deteriorated, and contains potential safety hazards.
UNIT: See "Dwelling Unit".
USE: The purpose for which land or premises, or a building thereon is designed,
arranged, or intended, or for which it is or may be occupied or maintained.
USE CLASSIFICATION: A category of use acceptable in a specified zoning
district, containing specific uses that are similar in nature due to having
similar impacts, hours of operation, parking needs, and other development
characteristics.
USE PERMIT: A discretionary permit, such as a Conditional Use Permit, which may
be granted by the appropriate City authority to provide for the accommodation
of land uses with special site or design requirements, operating
characteristics, or potential adverse effects on surroundings, which are not
permitted as of right, but which may be approved upon completion of a review
process and, where necessary, the imposition of special conditions of approval
by the permit granting authority.
UTILITY TOWER: An open framework structure or steel pole used to support
electric transmission facilities.
VACANT: A lot or parcel that contains no buildings or structures.
VARIANCE: Permission to depart from the literal requirements of the zoning
ordinance.
YARD: An open space, other than a court, on the same lot with a building, which
open space is unoccupied and unobstructed from the ground upward, except as
otherwise permitted in this chapter.
YARD, FRONT: A yard extending across the front of the lot between the inner
side yard lines and measured between the front lot line and the nearest line of
the main building.
YARD, REAR: A yard extending across the full width of the lot and measured
between the rear line of the lot and the nearest line or point of the main
building nearest the rear line of the lot.
YARD, SIDE: A yard on each side of a building between the building and the
sideline of the lot and extending from the front line to the rear yard.
YARD, STREET SIDE: A yard extending the full depth of the parcel between the
principal building and the side lot line adjacent to a public street right-of-
way measured perpendicularly from the side lot line to the closest point of the
principal building.
ZONE or ZONING DISTRICT: A portion of the city within which certain uses of
land and buildings are permitted or prohibited and within which certain yards
and other open spaces are required and certain height limited are established
for buildings, all as set forth and specified in this chapter. (Ord. 2024-6, 6-
17-2024)
11-8-2: USE CLASSIFICATIONS:
   (A)   Purpose: Use classifications describe one or more uses of land having
similar characteristics but do not list every use or activity that may
appropriately be within the classification. The Director shall determine
whether a specific use shall be deemed to be within one or more use
classifications or not within any classification in this Chapter. The Director
may determine that a specific use shall not be deemed to be within a
classification, whether or not named within the classification, if its
characteristics are substantially incompatible with those typical of uses named
within the classification.
   (B)   Residential Use Classifications:
      1.   Residential Housing Types:
         (a)   Single-Family Residence: A dwelling unit that is designed for
occupancy by one household, located on a single parcel that does not contain
any other dwelling unit (except an accessory dwelling unit, where permitted),
and not attached to another dwelling unit on an abutting parcel. This
classification includes individual manufactured housing units installed on a
foundation system pursuant to Section 18551 of the California Health and Safety
Code.
         (b)   Accessory Dwelling Unit: An attached or detached residential
dwelling unit that provides complete independent living facilities for one or
more persons and that is located on a parcel with a proposed or existing
primary single-unit or multiple-unit dwelling. See Section
11-4-2, Accessory Dwelling Units and Junior Accessory Dwelling Units, for
further details.
         (c)   Multi-Family Residence: Two (2) or more dwelling units within a
single building or within two (2) or more buildings on a site or parcel. Types
of multiple-unit dwellings include garden apartments, senior housing
developments, and multi-story apartment and condominium buildings. This
classification includes transitional housing in a multiple-unit format. The
classification is distinguished from group residential facilities.
            (1)   Senior Citizen Multiple-Family Residential: A multiple-unit
development in which occupancy of individual units is restricted to one or more
persons sixty two (62) years of age or older, or a person at least fifty five
(55) years of age who meets the qualifications found in Civil Code Section
51.3.
         (d)   Duplex: A single building that contains two (2) dwelling units
or two (2) single unit dwellings on a single parcel. This use is distinguished
from accessory dwelling units and junior accessory dwelling units, which are
accessory residential units as defined by State law and Section
11-4-2, Accessory Dwelling Units and Junior Accessory Dwelling Units.
         (e)   Junior Accessory Dwelling Unit: A dwelling unit that is no more
than five hundred (500) square feet in size and is contained entirely within an
existing or proposed single-unit dwelling. See Section 11-4-2, Accessory
Dwelling Units and Junior Accessory Dwelling Units, for further details. The
minimum size of an ADU or JADU is two hundred twenty (220) square feet of floor
area.
      2.   Employee Housing: Rental housing which has all the following
attributes:
         (a)   The housing is designed for use by individuals who will reside
on the property for a minimum stay of at least thirty (30) consecutive days,
but who otherwise intend their occupancy to be temporary.
         (b)   The housing is intended for use by persons who will maintain or
obtain a permanent place of residence elsewhere.
         (c)   The housing includes twp (2) or more of the following amenities:
            (1)   Maid and linen service.
            (2)   Health club, spa, pool, tennis courts, or memberships to area
facilities.
            (3)   Business service centers.
            (4)   Meeting rooms.
            (5)   Fully furnished units including a combination of some but not
necessarily all of the following: furniture, appliances, housewares, bed
linens, towels, artwork, televisions, entertainment systems, and computer
equipment.
            (6)   Valet Parking.
      3.   Emergency Shelter: A temporary, short-term residence providing
housing with minimal supportive services for homeless families or individual
persons where occupancy is limited to six (6) months or less, as defined in
Section 50801 of the California Health and Safety Code. Medical assistance,
counseling, and meals may be provided.
      4.   Family Day Care: A day-care facility licensed by the State of
California that is located in a dwelling unit where a resident of the dwelling
provides care and supervision for children under the age of eighteen (18) for
periods of less than twenty four (24) hours a day.
         (a)   Small: A facility that provides care for up to six (6) children
including children who reside at the home and are under the age of ten (10), or
up to eight (8) children in accordance with Health and Safety Code Section
1597.44, or any successor thereto.
         (b)   Large: A facility that provides care for up to twelve (12)
children, including children who reside at the home and are under the age of
ten (10), or up to fourteen (14) children in accordance with Health and Safety
Code Section 1597.465, or any successor thereto.
      5.   Group Residential: Shared living quarters without a separate kitchen
or bathroom facilities wherein two (2) or more rooms are rented to individuals
under separate rental agreements or leases, either written or oral, whether or
not an owner, agent or rental manager is in residence, offered for rent for
permanent or semi-transient residents for periods generally of at least thirty
(30) days. This classification includes rooming and boarding houses,
dormitories, fraternities, convents, monasteries, and other types of
organizational housing, and private residential clubs, but excludes Hotels and
Motels, Residential Care Facilities, and Re-Entry Facilities.
         (a)   Small, a facility that houses six (6) or fewer persons.
         (b)   Large, a facility that houses seven (7) or more persons.
      6.   Low Barrier Navigation Centers: A housing-first, low-barrier,
service-enriched shelter focused on moving people into permanent housing that
provides temporary living facilities while case managers connect individuals
experiencing homelessness to income, public benefits, health services, shelter,
and housing. "Low barrier" means best practices to reduce barriers to entry,
and may include, but is not limited to, the following:
         (a)   The presence of partners if it is not a population-specific
site, such as for survivors of domestic violence or sexual assault, women, or
youth.
         (b)   Pets.
         (c)   The storage of possessions.
         (d)   Privacy, such as partitions around beds in a dormitory setting
or in larger rooms containing more than two beds, or private rooms.
      7.   Mobile Home Park: Any area or tract of land where two (2) or more
lots are rented, leased, or held out for rent or lease, to accommodate mobile
homes used for human habitation in accordance with Health and Safety Code
Section 18214, or any successor thereto.
      8.   Residential Care: Facilities that provide permanent living
accommodations and twenty four (24) hour primarily non-medical care and
supervision for persons in need of personal services, supervision, protection,
or assistance for sustaining the activities of daily living. Living
accommodations are shared living quarters with or without separate kitchen or
bathroom facilities for each room or unit. This classification includes
facilities that are operated for profit as well as those operated by public or
not-for-profit institutions, including group homes for minors, persons with
disabilities, people in recovery from alcohol or drug addictions, and hospice
facilities.
         (a)   Residential Care, General: A residential facility licensed by
the State of California and providing care for more than six (6) persons.
         (b)   Residential Care, Limited: A residential facility licensed by
the State of California providing care for six (6) or fewer persons.
         (c)   Residential Care, Senior: A housing arrangement chosen
voluntarily by the resident, the resident's guardian, conservator, or other
responsible person; where residents are sixty (60) years of age or older and
where varying levels of care and supervision are provided as agreed to at the
time of admission or as determined necessary at subsequent times of
reappraisal. This classification includes continuing-care retirement
communities and life care communities licensed for residential care by the
State of California.
         (d)   Hospice, General: A facility that provides residential living
quarters for more than six (6) terminally ill persons.
         (e)   Hospice, Limited: A facility that provides residential living
quarters for up to six (6) terminally ill persons.
      9.   Supportive Housing: Dwelling units with no limit on the length of
stay, that are occupied by the target population as defined in Section 50675.14
of the California Health and Safety Code, and that are linked to on-site or
off-site services that assist the supportive housing resident in retaining the
housing, improving their health status, and maximizing their ability to live
and, where possible, work in the community.
      10.   Transitional Housing: Dwelling units with a limited length of stay
that are operated under a program requiring recirculation to another program
recipient at some future point in time. Transitional housing may be designated
for homeless or recently homeless individuals or families transitioning to
permanent housing as defined in subdivision (h) of Section 50675.2 of the
California Health and Safety Code. Facilities may be linked to onsite or
offsite supportive services designed to help residents gain skills needed to
live independently. Transitional housing may be provided in a variety of
residential housing types (e.g., multiple-unit dwelling, single-room occupancy,
group residential, single unit dwelling). This classification includes domestic
violence shelters.
   (C)   Public And Semi-Public Use Classifications:
      1.   Child Care Facility: Establishments providing non-medical care for
persons less than eighteen (18) years of age on a less than twenty four (24)
hour basis other than family day care (small and large). This classification
includes commercial and nonprofit nursery schools, preschools, day care
facilities for children, and any other day care facility licensed by the State
of California. See Section
11-4-4, Child Care and Early Education Facilities, for further details.
      2.   Community Gardens: An area of land managed and maintained by a
public or non-profit organization or a group of individuals to grow and harvest
food crops and/or ornamental crops, such as flowers, for personal or group use,
consumption, or donation. Community gardens may be divided into separate plots
for cultivation by one or more individuals or may be farmed collectively by
members of the group and may include common areas maintained and used by group
members. Community gardens may be accessory to public or institutional uses
such as parks, schools, community centers, or religious assembly uses. This
classification does not include gardens that are on a property in residential
use when access is limited to those who reside on the property. Community
gardens do not include medical marijuana collectives.
      3.   Cultural Facilities: Facilities engaged in activities to serve and
promote aesthetic and educational interest in the community that are open to
the public on a regular basis. This classification includes performing arts
centers for theater, music, dance, and events; spaces for display or
preservation of objects of interest in the arts or sciences; libraries;
museums; historical sites; aquariums; art galleries; and zoos and botanical
gardens. It does not include schools or institutions of higher education
providing curricula of a general nature.
      4.   Hospitals And Clinics: State-licensed public, private, and non-
profit facilities providing medical, surgical, mental health, or emergency
medical services. This classification includes facilities for inpatient or
outpatient treatment, including substance-abuse programs, as well as training,
research, and administrative services for patients and employees. This
classification excludes veterinary services and animal hospitals (see Animal
Care, Sales, and Services).
         (a)   Hospital: A facility providing medical, surgical, mental health,
or services primarily on an in-patient basis, and including ancillary
facilities for outpatient and emergency treatment, diagnostic services,
training, research, administration, and services to patients, employees, or
visitors.
         (b)   Clinic: A facility providing medical, mental health, or surgical
services exclusively on an out-patient basis, including emergency treatment,
diagnostic services, administration, and related services to patients who are
not lodged overnight. Services may be available without a prior appointment.
This classification includes licensed facilities offering substance abuse
treatment, blood banks, plasma, dialysis centers, and emergency medical
services offered exclusively on an out-patient basis. This classification does
not include private medical and dental offices that typically require
appointments and are usually smaller scale (see Offices, Medical and Dental).
      5.   Parks And Recreation Facilities: Parks, playgrounds, recreation
facilities, trails, wildlife preserves, and related open spaces, which are open
to the general public. This classification also includes playing fields,
courts, gymnasiums, swimming pools, picnic facilities, tennis courts, golf
courses, and botanical gardens, as well as related food concessions or
community centers within the facilities and restrooms within a primary
structure or in an accessory structure on the same site.
      6.   Parking, Private Or Public: Surface lots and structures which offer
parking to the public for a fee, when such parking is not associated with
another on-site activity.
      7.   Schools, Public Or Private: Facilities for primary or secondary
education, including public schools, charter schools, and private and parochial
schools having curricula comparable to that required in the public schools of
the State of California.
      8.   Religious Facilities: A facility for public or private meetings
including community centers, banquet centers, religious assembly facilities,
civic auditoriums, union halls, meeting halls for clubs and other membership
organizations. This classification includes functionally related facilities for
the use of members and attendees such as kitchens, multi-purpose rooms, and
storage. It does not include gymnasiums or other sports facilities, convention
centers, or facilities, such as day care centers and schools that are
separately classified and regulated.
   (D)   Commercial Use Classifications:
      1.   Adult Businesses: An establishment that, as a regular and
substantial course of conduct, offers, sells or distributes adult-oriented
merchandise, or that offers to its patrons materials, products, merchandise,
services, entertainment, or performances that have sexual arousal, sexual
gratification, and/or sexual stimulation as their dominant theme, or are
characterized by an emphasis on specified sexual activities or specified
anatomical areas and are not customarily open to the general public because
they exclude minors by virtue of their age. This classification does not
include any establishment offering professional services conducted, operated,
or supervised by medical practitioners, physical therapists, nurses,
chiropractors, psychologists, social workers, marriage and family counselors,
osteopaths, and persons holding licenses or certificates under applicable State
law or accreditation from recognized programs when performing functions
pursuant to the respective license or certificate.
      2.   Animal Care, Sales And Services: Retail sales and services related
to the boarding, grooming, and care of household pets, including:
         (a)   Grooming And Pet Store: Retail sales of animals and/or services,
including grooming, for animals on a commercial basis. Typical uses include dog
bathing and clipping salons, pet grooming shops, and pet stores and shops. This
classification excludes dog walking and similar pet care services not carried
out at a fixed location, and excludes pet supply stores that do not sell
animals or provide on-site animal services (see General Retail Sales).
         (b)   Kennel: A commercial, non-profit, or governmental facility for
keeping, boarding, training, breeding or maintaining four (4) or more dogs,
cats, or other household pets not owned by the kennel owner or operator on a
twenty four (24) hour basis. This classification includes animal shelters and
animal hospitals that provide boarding-only services for animals not receiving
services on the site but excludes the provision by shops and hospitals of
twenty four (24) hour accommodation of animals receiving medical services on
site. This classification also includes kennels that, in addition to twenty
four (24) hour accommodation, provide pet care for periods of less than twenty
four (24) hours but it does not include facilities that provide pet day care
exclusively or predominantly.
         (c)   Pet Day Care Service: A commercial, non-profit, or governmental
facility for keeping four (4) or more dogs, cats, or other household pets not
owned by the kennel owner or operator primarily for periods of less than twenty
four (24) hours.
         (d)   Veterinary Service: Veterinary services for domesticated
animals. This classification allows twenty four (24) hour accommodation of
animals receiving medical services but does not include kennels.
      3.   Artist's Studio: Workspace for an artist or artisan, including
individuals practicing one of the fine arts or performing arts, or skilled in
an applied art or craft. This use is distinguished by incidental retail sales
of items produced on the premises and does not include joint living and working
units.
      4.   Automobile/Vehicle Sales And Services: Retail or wholesale
businesses that sell, rent, and/or repair automobiles, boats, recreational
vehicles, trucks, vans, trailers, and motorcycles, including the following:
         (a)   Alternative Fuels And Recharging Facility: A facility offering
motor vehicle fuels not customarily offered by commercial refueling stations
(e.g., LPG) as well as equipment to recharge electric-powered vehicles. This
classification does not include facilities within public garages or other
stations that are accessory to a permitted use.
         (b)   Automobile Rental; Rental of automobiles: Typical uses include
car rental agencies.
         (c)   Automobile Storage Parcel: Any property used for short- or long-
term parking of vehicles for sale or lease at an automobile dealership or
rental agency on a separate parcel from such agency or dealership.
         (d)   Automobile/Vehicle Sales And Leasing: Sale or lease, retail or
wholesale, of automobiles, light trucks, motorcycles, motor homes, and
trailers, together with associated repair services and parts sales, but
excluding body repair and painting. Typical uses include automobile dealers and
recreational vehicle sales agencies. This classification does not include
automobile brokerage and other establishments which solely provide services of
arranging, negotiating, assisting, or effectuating the purchase of an
automobile for others.
         (e)   Automobile/Vehicle Repair: Repair of automobiles, trucks,
motorcycles, motor homes, boats, and recreational vehicles, including the
incidental sale, installation, and servicing of related equipment and parts,
generally on an overnight basis. This classification includes auto repair
shops, body and fender shops, transmission shops, wheel and brake shops, auto
glass services, and vehicle painting, but excludes vehicle dismantling or
salvaging and tire retreading or recapping.
         (f)   Service Station: Establishments primarily engaged in retailing
automotive fuels or retailing these fuels in combination with activities, such
as providing minor automobile/vehicle repair services; selling automotive oils,
replacement parts, and accessories; and/or providing incidental food and retail
services.
         (g)   Towing And Impound: Establishments primarily engaged in towing
light or heavy motor vehicles, both local and long distance. These
establishments may provide incidental services, such as vehicle storage and
emergency road repair services (for automobile dismantling, see Salvage and
Wrecking). This classification includes parcels used for storage of impounded
vehicles.
         (h)   Car Washing: Washing, waxing, detailing, or cleaning of
automobiles or similar light vehicles, including self-serve washing facilities.
This Includes drive-thru car washing facilities.
      5.   Banks And Financial Institutions:
         (a)   Bank And Credit Union: Financial institutions providing retail
banking services. This classification includes only those institutions engaged
in the on-site circulation of money, including credit unions, but excluding
check-cashing businesses. For administration, headquarters, or other offices of
banks and credit unions without retail banking services/on-site circulation of
money (see Offices, Business and Professional).
         (b)   Check Cashing Business: Establishments that, for compensation,
engage in the business of cashing checks, warrants, drafts, money orders, or
other commercial paper serving the same purpose. This classification also
includes the business of deferred deposits, whereby the check casher refrains
from depositing a personal check written by a customer until a specific date
pursuant to a written agreement as provided in Civil Code 1789.33. Check
Cashing Businesses do not include State or Federally chartered banks, savings
associations, credit unions, or industrial loan companies. They also do not
include retail sellers engaged primarily in the business of selling consumer
goods, such as consumables to retail buyers that cash checks or issue money
orders incidental to their main purpose or business.
      6.   Bars/Nightclubs/Lounges: Businesses serving beverages for
consumption on the premises as a primary use and including on-sale service of
alcohol including beer, wine, and mixed drinks. This use includes micro-
breweries where alcoholic beverages are sold and consumed on-site and any food
service is subordinate to the sale of alcoholic beverages.
      7.   Car Washes And Detail Services: See Automobile Car Washing under
subsection (D)4(h) above.
      8.   Convenience Store: A store for the retail sale of grocery or sundry
items to residents of a neighborhood or to highway travelers. Convenience
stores are not as large as supermarkets (less than three thousand (3,000)
square feet gross floor area) and generally operate during the late night and
early morning hours (ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. to eight o'clock (8:00) A.M.).
Convenience stores may also sell fuel and oil but may not perform any type of
automotive service.
      9.   Entertainment Facilities: Provision of participant or spectator
entertainment. This classification may include restaurants, snack bars, and
other incidental food and beverage services to patrons.
         (a)   Cinema: Facilities for indoor display of films and motion
pictures.
         (b)   Theater: Facilities designed and used for entertainment,
including plays, comedy, and music, which typically contain a stage upon which
movable scenery and theatrical appliances, or musical instruments and equipment
are used.
         (c)   Convention And Conference Centers: Facilities designed and used
for conventions, conferences, seminars, trade shows, product displays, and
other events in which groups gather to promote and share common interests.
Convention centers typically have at least one auditorium and may also contain
concert halls, lecture halls, meeting rooms, and conference rooms, as well as
accessory uses such as facilities for food preparation and serving and
administrative offices. For conference facilities accessory to hotels, see
Hotel and Motel.
         (d)   Large-Scale Facility: This classification includes large outdoor
facilities such as amusement and theme parks, sports stadiums and arenas,
racetracks, amphitheaters, drive-in theaters, driving ranges, and golf courses.
It also includes indoor facilities with five thousand (5,000) square feet or
more in building area such as fitness centers, gymnasiums, handball,
racquetball, or large tennis club facilities; ice- or roller-skating rinks;
swimming or wave pools; miniature golf courses; bowling alleys; archery or
indoor shooting ranges; and riding stables.
         (e)   Small-Scale Facility: This classification includes small,
generally indoor facilities that occupy less than five thousand (5,000) square
feet of building area, such as billiard parlors, card rooms, game arcades,
health clubs, yoga studios, dance halls, small tennis club facilities,
poolrooms, and amusement arcades.
      10.   Eating And Drinking Establishments:
         (a)   Restaurant, With Alcohol Sales: Restaurants providing food and
beverage services, including the sales of alcoholic beverages for consumption
on the premises. Takeout or delivery service may be provided. This use includes
micro-breweries where the sale and consumption of alcoholic beverages are
subordinate to on-site food service. See Section
11-4-7, Alcoholic Beverage Sales.
         (b)   Restaurant, Without Alcohol Sales: Restaurants providing food
and beverage services without the sales of alcoholic beverages. Food and
beverages may be consumed on the premises, taken out, or delivered. This
classification also includes catering businesses or bakeries that have a
storefront retail component.
            (1)   With Drive-Through Facility: Establishments providing food
and beverage services to patrons remaining in automobiles. Includes drive-up
service.
            (2)   With Outdoor Dining And Seating Area: Provision of outdoor
dining facilities on the same property or in the adjacent public right-of-way.
See Section
11-4-6, Outdoor Dining.
      11.   Fitness Centers: See Entertainment Facilities, Large-scale
      12.   Gun And Ammo Sales: Any retail sales business engaged in selling,
leasing, purchasing, or lending of guns, firearms, or ammunition.
      13.   Food And Beverage Sales: Retail sales of food and beverages for
off-site preparation and consumption. Typical uses include food markets,
groceries, and liquor stores.
         (a)   Farmer's Markets: A commercial use primarily consisting of an
organized display, indoors or outdoors, of agricultural products in their
natural state for retail sale. Other products such as processed food (dried
fruit, cheese or bread, for example), or artisan handiwork or art, are
sometimes sold at Farmer's Markets as well. Farmer's Markets which take place
within a fully enclosed building which is not disassembled when the Farmer's
Market is not in operation shall be considered Healthy Food Grocers.
         (b)   General Market: Retail food markets of food and grocery items
for offsite preparation and consumption. Typical uses include supermarkets,
neighborhood grocery stores, and specialty food stores, such as retail
bakeries; candy, nuts, and confectionary stores; meat or produce markets;
vitamin and health food stores; cheese stores; and delicatessens. This
classification may include small-scale specialty food production such as pasta
shops with retail sales.
         (c)   Liquor Stores: An establishment less than ten thousand (10,000)
square feet in size that sells liquor for off-site consumption and/or that
devotes thirty percent (30%) or greater floor area to the selling of packaged
alcoholic beverages (such as ale, beer, wine, and liquor) for off-site
consumption.
      14.   Home Occupation: A use that is incidental and secondary to the
primary residential use of a dwelling and compatible with surrounding
residential uses. These uses include business, professional, and creative
offices, food production, limited personal services, and urban agriculture. See
Section
11-4-3, Home Occupations for further details.
      15.   Home Goods And Hardware Stores: Retail sales or rental of building
supplies or equipment. This classification includes lumberyards, tool and
equipment sales or rental establishments, and includes establishments devoted
principally to taxable retail sales to individuals for their own use. This
definition does not include Construction and Material Yards, hardware stores
less than ten thousand (10,000) square feet or establishments engaged in the
business of selling, leasing, or otherwise transferring any firearm or
ammunitions.
      16.   Hotel: Any building, or portion thereof, containing six (6) or more
guest rooms used, designed, or intended to be used, let, or hired out to be
occupied or which are occupied as the more or less temporary abiding place of
six (6) or more individuals who are lodged with or without meals for
compensation, whether the compensation for hire is paid directly or indirectly,
and in which no provision is made for cooking in any individual room or suite.
      17.   Motel: A building, or group of buildings, used for transient
residential purposes, containing guest rooms or dwelling units with automobile
storage space provided in connection therewith, which building, or group is
designed, intended, or used primarily for the accommodation of transient
automobile travelers, including groups designated as auto cabins, motor courts,
motor hotels, and similar designations.
      18.   Mortuary: An establishment primarily engaged in the provision of
services involving the care, preparation, or disposition of human remains and
conducting memorial services. Typical uses include crematories, columbaria,
mausoleums, mortuaries, funeral chapels, and funeral homes.
      19.   Offices:
         (a)   Medical And Dental, Clinic And Laboratory: Office use providing
consultation, diagnosis, therapeutic, preventive, or corrective personal
treatment services by doctors, dentists, medical and dental laboratories, and
similar practitioners of medical and healing arts for humans licensed for such
practice by the State of California. Incidental medical and/or dental research
within the office is considered part of the office use, where it supports the
on-site patient services.
         (b)   Business And Professional: Offices of firms or organizations
providing professional, executive, management, or administrative services, such
as accounting, architectural, computer software design, engineering, graphic
design, interior design, legal offices, and tax preparation offices.
         (c)   Walk-In Clientele: An office business providing direct services
to patrons or clients that may or may not require appointments. This use
classification includes employment agencies, insurance agent offices, real
estate offices, travel agencies, utility company offices, and offices for
elected officials. It does not include banks or check-cashing facilities that
are separately classified and regulated.
      20.   Pawn Shop: An establishment engaged in retail sales of new or
secondhand merchandise and offering loans secured by personal property, and as
further defined in California Financial Code Section 21000.
      21.   Personal Services:
         (a)   General Personal Services: Provision of recurrently needed
services of a personal nature. This classification includes barber shops and
beauty salons, seamstresses, tailors, day spas, dry cleaning agents (excluding
large-scale bulk cleaning plants), shoe repair shops, self-service laundries,
video rental stores, photocopying, photo finishing services, and travel
agencies mainly intended for the consumer.
         (b)   Personal Services, Physical Training: Gyms, exercise clubs, or
studios offering martial arts, physical exercise, yoga training and similar
types of instruction to classes and groups of five (5) or less persons. This
classification also includes exclusively youth-serving studios of less than
three thousand (3,000) square feet offering performing arts, dance, martial
arts, physical exercise, and similar types of instruction to classes and groups
of more than five (5) persons.
         (c)   Fortune Telling Service: An establishment engaged in or that
professes to foretell future or past events or that is engaged in the practice
of palmistry (the art or practice of reading a person's character or future
from the lines on the palms of hands). Examples of this use type include
astrologers, fortune tellers, palm and card readers, and psychics.
         (d)   Massage Establishments: Any business, including a sole
proprietorship, which offers massage therapy in exchange for compensation,
whether at a fixed place of business or at a location designated by the patron.
Massage therapy includes the application of various techniques to the muscular
structure and soft tissues of the human body, including, but not limited to,
any method of pressure or friction against, or stroking, kneading, rubbing,
tapping, compression, pounding, vibrating, rocking or stimulating of, the
external surfaces of the body with the hands or with any object or appliance.
Exempted from this definition are massage therapists operating in conjunction
with and on the same premises as a physician, surgeon, chiropractor, osteopath,
nurse or any physical therapist who is duly State-licensed to practice their
respective profession in the State of California, and out-service massage
therapists certified pursuant to the California Business and Professions Code
Section 4612.
      22.   Retail Shops And Boutiques: The retail sale or rental of
merchandise not specifically listed under another use classification. This
classification includes retail establishments with eighty thousand (80,000)
square feet or less of sales area; including department stores, clothing
stores, furniture stores, pet supply stores, hardware stores, and businesses
retailing the following goods: toys, hobby materials, handcrafted items,
jewelry, cameras, photographic supplies and services (including portraiture and
retail photo processing), medical supplies and equipment, pharmacies,
electronic equipment, sporting goods, kitchen utensils, hardware, appliances,
antiques, art galleries, art supplies and services, paint and wallpaper,
carpeting and floor covering, office supplies, bicycles, and new automotive
parts and accessories (excluding vehicle service and installation). Retail
sales may be combined with other services such as office machine, computer,
electronics, and similar small-item repairs.
      23.   Tattoo Or Body Parlor: An establishment whose principal business
activity is one or more of the following: 1) using ink or other substances that
result in the permanent coloration of the skin through the use of needles or
other instruments designed to contact or puncture the skin; or 2) creating an
opening in the body of a person for the purpose of inserting jewelry or other
decoration.
   (E)   Manufacturing Use Classifications:
      1.   Agricultural Product Processing: Establishments performing a variety
of operations on crops after harvest, to prepare them for market on-site or
further processing and packaging at a distance from the agricultural area
including, but not limited to: alfalfa cubing; hay baling and cubing; corn
shelling; drying of corn, rice, hay, fruits, and vegetables; pre-cooling and
packaging of fresh or farm-dried fruits and vegetables; grain cleaning and
custom grinding; custom grist mills; custom milling of flour, feed, and grain;
sorting, grading, and packing of fruits and vegetables, tree nut hulling and
shelling; cotton ginning; wineries, alcohol fuel production; and receiving and
processing of green material, other than that produced on-site (commercial
composting).
      2.   Chemical And Mineral Storage, Mixing And Sales: Storage of hazardous
materials including, but not limited to: bottled gas, chemicals, minerals and
ores, petroleum or petroleum-based fuels, and fireworks.
      3.   Construction And Material Yards: Storage of construction materials
or equipment on a site other than a construction site.
      4.   Commercial Kitchen: Kitchens used for the preparation of food to be
delivered and consumed off-site. Typical uses include catering facilities. This
classification does not include businesses involved in the processing or
manufacturing of wholesale food products.
      5.   Media Production: Establishments engaged in the production of
movies, video, music and similar forms of intellectual property. Typical
facilities include movie and recording studios and production facilities,
distribution facilities, editing facilities, catering facilities, printing
facilities, post-production facilities, set construction facilities, sound
studios, special effects facilities and other entertainment-related production
operations.
      6.   Personal Storage: Facilities offering enclosed storage with
individual access for personal effects and household goods, including mini-
warehouses and mini-storage. This use excludes workshops, hobby shops,
manufacturing, or commercial activity.
      7.   Recycling Facility: A facility for receiving, temporarily storing,
transferring and/or processing materials for recycling, reuse, or final
disposal. This use classification does not include waste transfer facilities
that operate as materials recovery, recycling, and solid waste transfer
operations and are classified as utilities (see Utilities, Major).
         (a)   Recycling Collection Facility: An incidental use that serves as
a neighborhood drop-off point for the temporary storage of recyclable materials
but where the processing and sorting of such items is not conducted on-site.
         (b)   Recycling Processing Facility: A facility that receives, sorts,
stores and/or processes recyclable materials.
      8.   Utilities, Major: Generating plants, electric substations, and solid
waste collection, including transfer stations and materials recovery
facilities, solid waste treatment and disposal, water or wastewater treatment
plants, and similar facilities of public agencies or public utilities.
      9.   Utilities, Minor: Facilities necessary to support established uses
involving only minor structures, such as electrical distribution lines, and
underground water and sewer lines.
      10.   Warehousing, Storage, And Distribution: Storage and distribution
facilities without sales to the public on-site or direct public access except
for public storage in small individual space exclusively and directly
accessible to a specific tenant.
         (a)   Chemical, Mineral, And Explosives Storage: Storage and handling
of hazardous materials including, but not limited to: bottled gas, chemicals,
minerals and ores, petroleum or petroleum-based fuels, fireworks, and
explosives.
         (b)   Indoor Warehousing And Storage: Storage within an enclosed
building of commercial goods prior to their distribution to wholesale and
retail outlets and the storage of industrial equipment, products and materials.
This classification also includes cold storage, draying or freight, moving and
storage, and warehouses. It excludes the storage of hazardous chemical,
mineral, and explosive materials.
         (c)   Outdoor Storage: Storage of vehicles or commercial goods or
materials in open parcels.
         (d)   Personal Storage: Facilities offering enclosed storage with
individual access for personal effects and household goods, including mini-
warehouses and mini-storage. This use excludes workshops, hobby shops,
manufacturing, or commercial activity.
         (e)   Wholesaling And Distribution: Indoor storage and sale of goods
to other firms for resale; storage of goods for transfer to retail outlets of
the same firm; or storage and sale of materials and supplies used in production
or operation, including janitorial and restaurant supplies. Wholesalers are
primarily engaged in business-to-business sales, but may sell to individual
consumers through mail or internet orders. They normally operate from a
warehouse or office having little or no display of merchandise, and are not
designed to solicit walk-in traffic. (Ord. 2024-6, 6-17-2024)
TITLE XII
FEES, RATES AND CHARGES
CHAPTER 1
FEES, RATES AND CHARGES
SECTION:
12-1-1: Intent
12-1-2: Delegation
12-1-3: Costs Reasonably Borne
12-1-4: Schedule of Fees and Service Charges
12-1-5: Public Meeting
12-1-6: Services Classifications
12-1-7: Resolution Information
12-1-8: Fee Schedule Maintenance
12-1-9: General Fund Revenues
12-1-10: Provision of Data
12-1-11: Appeal to City Council
12-1-1: INTENT:
Pursuant to article XIIIB of the California Constitution, it is the intent of
the City Council to require the setting and recovery of costs reasonably borne
from fees and charges levied therefor in providing the regulation, products or
services set forth in a resolution of the City Council.
12-1-2: DESIGNATION:
The City Manager is hereby delegated the authority and directed to adjust fees
and charges to recover the percentage of costs reasonably borne in providing
the regulation, products or services enumerated as the percentage of costs set
forth in the schedule of rates established by resolution of the City Council.
In so adjusting fees and charges, the City Manager shall act in an
administrative and ministerial capacity and shall consider only the standards
and criteria established by this Chapter.
12-1-3: COSTS REASONABLY BORNE:
"Costs reasonably borne" are:
   (A)   All applicable direct costs including, but not limited to, salaries,
wages, fringe benefits, services and supplies, operations expenses, contracted
services, special supplies and any other direct expense incurred.
   (B)   All applicable indirect costs including, but not restricted to,
building maintenance, communication, printing and reproduction, and like
distributed expenses.
   (C)   Fixed asset recovery expenses, consisting of depreciation on fixed
assets and additional charges, calculated on the current estimated cost of
replacement divided by the approximate life expectancy of the fixed asset. A
further additional charge to make up the depreciation not previously recovered
and reserved in cash also shall be calculated so as to recover such unrecovered
depreciation over the remaining life of the asset.
   (D)   General overhead, expressed as a percentage, distributing and charging
the expenses of the City Council, City Manager, Finance Department, City
Treasurer, City Clerk, City Attorney, community promotion, personnel and all
other staff and support services.
   (E)   Departmental overhead, expressed as a percentage, distributing and
charging the cost of each department head and his or her supporting expenses.
12-1-4: SCHEDULE OF FEES AND SERVICE CHARGES:
The City Manager, Director of Finance and each department head under the
direction of the City Manager shall review the fees and service charges listed
and the schedule of frequency listed, and shall set and adjust the fee or
charge schedule so as to recover the listed percentage of the estimated
reasonable cost of providing the listed regulation, product or service.
12-1-5: PUBLIC MEETING:
The City Manager shall cause notice of any increase in such fees and charges to
be provided pursuant to Government Code section 54992. At a public meeting the
City Council shall receive oral and written presentations concerning proposed
fees and charges described in Government Code sections 54990 and 54991. Such
notice and opportunity for public comment shall be provided before the City
Council takes any action on any new or increased fees or charges described in
Government Code sections 54990 and 54991.
12-1-6: SERVICES CLASSIFICATIONS:
The City Council shall by resolution establish a schedule of fees for services
provided pursuant to the following services classifications:
   (A)   Community Development: These services shall consist of the engineering
and planning functions relating to land use and the regulation thereof.
   (B)   Public Safety: These services shall consist of the police, fire
protection, and health and safety functions and the regulation thereof.
   (C)   Park and Recreation Services: These services shall consist of the
parks uses and the recreation programs provided directly by the City or by
others under the direction of the said City.
   (D)   Ambulance Services: These services shall consist of pre-hospital
treatment, emergency transport of patients to hospital care, inter-care
facility transport and any other service related to emergency health care to
the acutely ill or injured.
   (E)   Maintenance Services: These services shall consist of cleaning,
clearing, sweeping, rights of way repair, and maintenance and other special
services for the benefit of individuals or others.
   (F)   Finance and Administrative: These services shall consist of business
and supportive services related to business office functions, billing,
accounting report preparation and related services.
12-1-7: RESOLUTION INFORMATION:
The resolution establishing the system of fees for services shall indicate the
percentage of the actual costs of providing the service that shall be recovered
by the fees.
12-1-8: FEE SCHEDULE MAINTENANCE:
The fee schedule shall be reviewed and updated periodically, but not less than
annually, to set fees that will recover costs reasonably borne in providing the
services required.
12-1-9: GENERAL FUND REVENUES:
Revenue received from the charge of service fees shall be deposited in the
General Fund to reimburse the expenditures to provide the services.
12-1-10: PROVISION OF DATA:
Pursuant to section 54992 of the California Government Code, the City Manager
shall, at least ten (10) days prior to the required public meeting set out in
said Government Code section, make available to the public data indicating the
cost or estimated cost required and the revenue sources anticipated, including
General Fund revenues, to provide the services set out in Government Code
sections 54990 and 54991.
12-1-11: APPEAL TO CITY COUNCIL:
Any person who feels that any fee or charge determined by the City Manager
pursuant to the directions in this Chapter is in excess of the percentage of
costs reasonably borne to be recovered as set forth in resolution of the City
Council, or that such fee or charge has not been reviewed within the review
schedule as set out in Section
12-1-4, may appeal in writing to the City Council. No fee shall be charged for
such appeal.
No fee for which an appeal has been filed shall take effect until heard by the
City Council. Such appealed fee or charge shall take effect immediately upon
hearing by the City Council unless ordered otherwise by the City Council. The
City Council may uphold, modify and uphold or reverse the determination of the
City Manager. The decision of the City Council shall be conclusive and final.
(Ord. 932, 5-21-90)
CHAPTER 2
DEVELOPMENT IMPACT FEES
SECTION:
12-2-1: Establishment, Purpose and Use of Development Impact Fees
12-2-2: Definitions
12-2-3: Relationship Between Need for Additional Public Facilities and Type of
Development
12-2-4: Adjustment of Fees
12-2-5: Relationship Between Amount of Fees and Cost of Facilities Attributable
to Development on Which Fee is Imposed
12-2-6: Relationship Between Fee's Use and Type of Development
12-2-7: Payment of Fee
12-2-8: Exempted Activities
12-2-9: Accounting for Funds
12-2-10: Annual Findings
12-2-11: California Environmental Quality Act
12-2-1: ESTABLISHMENT, PURPOSE AND USE OF DEVELOPMENT IMPACT FEES:
   (A)   The City Council hereby creates and establishes a development impact
fee ("the fee") for the City which shall be used to mitigate unfavorable
impacts attributed to new development. Specifically, this fee shall be used by
the City to pay a portion of the costs of designated public facilities and,
insofar as is permissible, for operations cost increases due to development.
This fee shall be based on a formula designed to insure that developers pay
their fair share of the costs of such public facilities required to serve the
City's growing population.
   (B)   Such public facilities are currently identified by category in the
draft of the City's Capital Improvement Program (CIP), which shall be adopted
and revised annually. The CIP facilities may be added to or deleted from the
plan, but the City Council directs that this fee shall be used only for public
facilities in these categories: government and public safety facilities,
vehicles and equipment, essential infrastructure and related facilities, and
cultural and recreation facilities required for the continued health, safety
and general welfare of the people of the City.
12-2-2: DEFINITIONS:
For purposes of this Chapter, these words shall have the following meanings:
   COSTS OF PUBLIC FACILITIES: Any costs related to acquisition, construction,
repair and financing of public facilities and equipment funded through the
City's CIP and to the extent permitted by law for the increased costs of Safety
Departments operations resulting from development impact on those services.
   CULTURAL AND RECREATION FACILITIES: Any recreation buildings, parks,
playgrounds, pools, courts and similar facilities located in the City.
   ESSENTIAL INFRASTRUCTURE: Any facilities for the collection and disposal of
storm waters and for flood control purposes; transportation and transit
facilities, including but not limited to streets, alleys and supporting
improvements, roads, overpasses, public transit equipment and related
facilities; and any other capital projects identified in the CIP.
   GOVERNMENT FACILITIES: City Hall, City garage and corporation yard, City
offices and City parking areas, and similar facilities in or through which the
City conducts general City operations.
   NEW DEVELOPMENT: Any residential, commercial, or industrial development,
including development.
   PUBLIC FACILITIES: Government and public safety facilities, essential
infrastructure and related facilities, cultural and recreation facilities and
capital equipment.
   PUBLIC SAFETY FACILITIES: Any capital improvements or capital equipment
related to City police and fire operations.
   RELATED FACILITIES: Any major landscaping, fountains, monuments, signs and
similar facilities, activities and operations of general benefit to the City.
12-2-3: RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN NEED FOR ADDITIONAL PUBLIC FACILITIES AND TYPE OF
DEVELOPMENT:
The City Council is committed to maintaining the same level of public
facilities and services and the same public facilities-to-population
relationship which existed on the date of the adoption of this Chapter in order
to ensure that, to the extent City growth occurs in the future, there will be
the same level of public facilities and services that existed on said date. The
City Council finds that a reasonable relationship exists between the need for
additional public facilities, equipment and operations and the type of
development project for which the fee is imposed for the following reasons:
   (A)   The City Council has determined that commercial and industrial
developments result in a need for additional public services, which in turn,
ultimately result in a need for additional government and public safety
facilities and essential infrastructure and related facilities. Based on the
level of public services and the public facilities-to- population relationship
which existed on the date of the adoption of this Chapter, and the extent to
which commercial and industrial developments contribute to growth, the City
Council determines that commercial and industrial development should be
assessed at rates to be established by resolution of the said City Council as
the fair share of contribution for the costs of these required public
facilities and services.
   (B)   The City Council has determined that residential development,
including new mobile home park development, results in significant increases in
City population, and that such residential development adversely affects the
public facilities-to-population relationship which existed on the date of the
adoption of this Chapter. The City Council has further determined that because
residential development results in significant increases in population, such
development results in the need for additional government and public safety
facilities, essential infrastructure and related facilities, and cultural and
recreation facilities, and public safety operational costs based on the public
facilities-to- population relationship which existed on said date and the
extent to which residential development contributes to the City's growth, the
City Council determines that residential development shall be assessed at the
rate established by resolution of the City Council for the costs for these
required public facilities and services. (Ord. 931, 6-4-1990)
   (C)   The City Council has determined that development agreements and
assessment districts approved by the City provide for public improvements for
which the expense is not provided for by the standard fees provided for in this
Title and for which a zone of benefit and schedule of special fees and charges
are necessary to equitably charge the properties benefited by such
improvements. The zone of benefit and schedule of surcharge fees shall be
established in essentially the same manner as provided in this Chapter but no
annual revision or determination is required beyond the initial establishment
of such surcharge fees which may use the development agreement, assessment
proceedings or other similar contract and statutory proceedings as the basis
for the "costs reasonably borne" provisions of Section
12-3-3 of this Title. (Ord. 98-5, 7-6-1998)
12-2-4: ADJUSTMENT OF FEES:
The fees set forth herein shall be adjusted from time to time but not less than
annually as of July 1 of each year, subject to City Council review and
approval, to reflect changes in costs as determined by the City Manager and the
department head staff. (Ord. 931, 6-4-1990)
12-2-5: RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN AMOUNT OF FEES AND COST OF FACILITIES ATTRIBUTABLE
TO DEVELOPMENT ON WHICH FEE IS IMPOSED:
The City Council finds that there is a reasonable relationship between the
amount of the fees set by resolution of the City Council and the cost of the
public facilities or portions thereof attributable to the development on which
the fees are imposed. The basis for such determination is set out in reports to
the City Council from the City Manager and such consultants as the City Council
determines is necessary to develop accurate costs and fees to cover such costs.
(Ord. 931, 6-4-1990)
12-2-6: RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN FEE'S USE AND TYPE OF DEVELOPMENT:
The City Council finds that there is a reasonable relationship between the use
of the fee for specified categories of public facilities and the type of
development project for which the fee is imposed for the following reasons:
   (A)   The City Council finds that the use of fees generated from commercial
and industrial development for cultural and recreation facilities is not
reasonable because the City Council determines that there is no substantial
demand placed on such facilities as a result of commercial and industrial
development. Because commercial and industrial developments do increase demand
on government and public safety facilities and essential infrastructure and
related facilities, the City Council finds that the use of fees generated from
commercial and industrial development for such facilities is reasonable.
   (B)   The City Council finds that the use of fees generated from residential
development for government and public safety facilities, essential
infrastructure and related facilities, and cultural and recreation facilities
is reasonable because growth in the residential population places demand on all
such facilities.
   (C)   The City Council further finds that funding of the costs of government
and public safety facilities, including capital equipment set forth in the CIP,
accomplishes the goals and purposes set forth in subsections (A) and (B) of
this Section and that the use revenues generated by development impact fees for
projects and outlays set forth in the CIP is warranted and justified. (Ord.
931, 6-4-1990)
12-2-7: PAYMENT OF FEE:
Any owner or developer applying for a building permit for commercial or
industrial development shall be assessed and shall pay the fee in conjunction
with payment for the building permit subject to the provision of Government
Code section 66007. Any owner or developer of a residential development shall
pay the fee on the date of final inspection or the date the certificate of
occupancy is issued, whichever occurs first. In the case of a subdivision, the
fees shall be paid on a lump sum basis when the first dwelling in the
development receives its final inspection or certificate of occupancy,
whichever occurs first. (Ord. 931, 6-4-1990)
12-2-8: EXEMPTED ACTIVITIES:
Any developer engaging in development activities which satisfy the following
criteria shall not be required to pay the fee:
   (A)   An alteration which does not increase the floor area of a structure;
or
   (B)   An addition to a single-family residential dwelling unit which does
not constitute the addition of a dwelling unit as defined by the Uniform
Building Code. (Ord. 931, 6-4-1990)
12-2-9: ACCOUNTING FOR FUNDS:
   (A)   Pursuant to Government Code section 66006, the City Council directs
that all fees collected hereunder shall be maintained in a fund separate from
the City's General Fund and shall be separated into two (2) special accounts,
one for fees generated from residential development, and the other for fees
generated from commercial and industrial development. The City shall utilize
the fees in these accounts, along with any interest earnings, only for the
costs of public facilities as specified herein.
   (B)   If a fee paid by a developer for a particular development has been
retained by the City for five (5) or more years, and the City has not committed
that fee to costs for public facilities, then the City Council shall make
findings describing the continuing need to retain the fee each fiscal year
after the first five (5) years.
   (C)   If the City Council does not make such findings, then the City Council
shall refund the collected fees as appropriate. (Ord. 931, 6-4-1990)
12-2-10: ANNUAL FINDINGS:
Each fiscal year, at the time of adoption of the Capital Improvement Program,
the City Council shall do the following:
   (A)   Identify the purpose to which the fee is to be put; and
   (B)   Demonstrate whether there is a reasonable relationship between the fee
and the purpose for which the fee was charged. If the City Council determines
that there is such reasonable relationship, then such determination shall be
supported as appropriate. (Ord. 931, 6-4-1990)
12-2-11: CALIFORNIA ENVIRONMENTAL QUALITY ACT:
The Planning and Development Director has provided public notice that adoption
of this Chapter will produce no significant impact on the environment and of
the intent of the City Council to adopt a declaration to that effect. The City
Council has reviewed such notice, along with the initial study and staff
report, and hereby finds that there will be no significant environmental
impacts from adoption of this Chapter, and adopts said negative declaration in
accordance with the California Environmental Quality Act. (Ord. 931, 6-4-1990)
CHAPTER 3
FEE AND SERVICE CHARGE REVENUE/COST COMPARISON SYSTEM
SECTION:
12-3-1: Findings And Intent
12-3-2: Delegation Of Authority And Direction To Manager
12-3-3: "Costs Reasonably Borne" Defined
12-3-4: Schedule Of Fees And Service Charges
12-3-5: Statutory Public Meeting
12-3-6: Provision Of Data
12-3-7: Appeal To City Council
12-3-1: FINDINGS AND INTENT:
   (A)   Pursuant to Article XIIIB of the California Constitution, it is the
intent of the City Council to require the ascertainment and recovery of costs
reasonably borne from fees, charges and regulatory license fees levied therefor
in providing the regulation, products or services hereinafter enumerated in
this Chapter.
   (B)   The fee and service charge revenue/cost comparison system set forth in
this Chapter provides a mechanism for ensuring that fees adopted by the City
for services rendered do not exceed the reasonable estimated cost for providing
the services for which the fees are charged.
   (C)   The adoption of this Chapter is exempt from the California
Environmental Quality Act (Public Resources Code sections 2100 et seq.),
because it approves and sets forth a procedure for determining fees for the
purpose of meeting and operating expenses of City departments, as set forth in
Public Resources Code sections 21080 (b) (8) (1).
12-3-2: DELEGATION OF AUTHORITY AND DIRECTION TO MANAGER:
   (A)   The City Manager is hereby delegated the authority and directed to
provide documents to the City Council to implement its herein enumerated policy
to adjust fees and charges to recover the percentage of costs reasonably borne
as established hereby, in providing the regulation, product or service
enumerated in this Chapter in the percentage of costs reasonably borne and on
the schedule of rate review and revision as hereinafter established in this
Chapter.
   (B)   The City Manager is hereby delegated authority to issue Executive
Orders defining terms, setting out administrative, fee collection, and
financial procedures, definitions, and establishing effective dates of all fees
set by the City Council by resolution. All Executive Orders shall be originated
and signed by the affected department head, shall be signed by the Finance
Director certifying that the financial requirements of this Chapter are
complied with, and shall be signed by the City Manager connoting the effective
date of the Executive Order and new or revised rate structure, procedure or
definition.
   (C)   "Costs reasonably borne" shall be defined in Section
12-3-3. In adjusting fees and charges, the City Manager shall act in an
administrative and ministerial capacity and shall consider only the standards
and criteria established by this Chapter, and the procedures set hereby and by
applicable State law. All Executive Orders issued hereunder shall comply in all
respects with this Chapter, and the several schedules of fees and rates as set
by the City Council by resolution.
12-3-3: "COSTS REASONABLY BORNE" DEFINED:
"Costs reasonably borne", as used and ordered to be applied in this Chapter are
to consist of the following elements:
   (A)   All applicable direct costs including, but not limited to salaries,
wages, overtime, employee fringe benefits, services and supplies, maintenance
and operation expenses, contracted services, special supplies, and any other
direct expense incurred.
   (B)   All applicable indirect costs including, but not restricted to
building maintenance and operations, equipment maintenance and operations,
communications expenses, computer costs, printing and reproduction, vehicle
expenses, insurance, debt service, and like expenses when distributed on an
accounted and documented rational proration system.
   (C)   Fixed asset recovery expenses, consisting of depreciation of fixed
assets, and additional fixed asset expense recovery charges calculated on the
current estimated cost of replacement, divided by the approximate life
expectancy of the fixed asset. A further additional charge to make up the
difference between book value depreciation not previously recovered and
reserved in cash and the full cost of replacement, also shall be calculated and
considered a cost so as to recover such unrecovered costs between book value
and cost of replacement over the remaining life of the asset.
   (D)   General overhead, expressed as a percentage, distributing and charging
the expenses of the City Council, City Attorney, City Administration, City
Clerk, City Treasurer, Economic Development, Finance Department, Personnel
Office, and City Promotion, and all other staff and support service provided to
the entire City organization. Overhead shall be prorated between tax-financed
services and fee-financed services on the basis of said percentage so that each
of taxes and fees and charges shall proportionately defray such overhead costs.
   (E)   Departmental overhead, expressed as a percentage, distributing and
charging the cost of each department head and his or her supporting expenses as
enumerated in subsections (A), (B), (C), and (F) of this Section.
   (F)   Debt service costs, consisting of repayment of principal, payment of
interest, and trustee fees and administrative expenses for all applicable bond,
certificate, note or securities issues or loans of whatever nature or kind. Any
required coverage factors or required or established reserves beyond basic debt
service costs also shall be considered a cost if required by covenant within
any securities ordinance, resolution, indenture or general law applicable to
the City. (Ord. 91-9, 9-3-1991)
12-3-4: SCHEDULE OF FEES AND SERVICE CHARGES:
   (A)   The City Manager, Finance Director and each City department head,
under the direction of the City Manager, shall review annually the fees and
service charges listed following, and provide an adjusted fee or charge
schedule to the City Council for its consideration so as to recover the listed
percentage of costs reasonably borne necessary to provide the listed
regulation, product or service.
                              Percentage Of Cost  
Regulation, Product Or Service Reasonably Borne   Notes
                               To Be Recovered
                                             Percentage Of Cost  
Regulation, Product Or Service                Reasonably Borne   Notes
                                              To Be Recovered
                                                                
1.   Building plan check                      100%
2.   Building inspection                      100%
3.   Miscellaneous building inspection        100%
4.   Building relocation inspection           100%
5.   Building demolition inspection           100%
6.   Change of occupancy inspection           100%
7.   Compliance review                        100%
8.   Preliminary map review                   100%
9.   Tentative parcel map review              100%
10.  Tentative tract map review               100%
11.  Lot line adjustment review               100%
12.  Site plan review                         100%
13.  Precise plan review                      100%
14.  Development agreement review             100%
15.  Conditional use review                   100%
16.  Home occupation permit review            100%
17.  Variance review                          100%
18.  General Plan review revision             100%
19.  Annexation processing                    100%
20.  Zoning change review                     100%
21.  Zoning text amendment review             100%
22.  Environmental impact report review       100%
23.  Environmental assessment                 100%
24.  Mitigation monitoring                    100%
25.  Architectural design review              100%
26.  Sign plan review                         100%
27.  Processing appeal of commission decision 100%
28.  Processing appeal of staff decision      100%
29.  Landscape plan check                     100%
30.  Landscape inspection                     100%
31.  Minor modification review                100%
32.  Tentative map extension review           100%
33.  Grading plan check                       100%
34.  Grading inspection                       100%
35.  Final parcel map check                   100%
36.  Final tract map check                    100%
37.  Public improvement plan check/inspection 100%
38.  Street vacation request processing       100%
39.  Permanent ROW encroachment review        100%
40.  Special traffic/curb markings service    100%
41.  Special engineering service              100%
42.  CAD assistance – other agencies        100%
43.  "Wide, overweight, overlong load review" 100% up to State maximum
44.  Zoning Code enforcement                  100%
45.  Building Code enforcement                100%
46.  Special business regulation              100%
47.  Bicycle registration                     25%  up to State maximum
48.  Vehicle Code enforcement                 100%
49.  Parking enforcement                      100%
50.  Parking administrative review            100%
51.  Parking administrative board review      100%
52.  Noise disturbance response call-back     100% after first response
53.  Police false alarm response              100% after second response
54.  Records check/clearance letter           100%
55.  Fingerprinting                           100%
56.  Police report copy                       100% up to State law requirements
57.  Traffic collision report copy            100% up to State law requirements
58.  Noninjury accident report                100% up to State law requirements
     investigation/copy
59.  Crime scene/police photo reproduction    100%
60.  Statutory offender registration          100%
61.  Removal of abandoned vehicles            100%
62.  Vehicle identification (VIN              100%
     verification)
63.  DUI accident investigation/arrest        100%
     procedure
64.  Animal control – license               50%
65.  Animal control – redemption fees       50%
66.  False report response                    100%
67.  Special event application review         100%
68.  Special police services                  100%
69.  Voluntary gun registration               100%
70.  Concealed weapon permit review           100%
71.  Vehicle equipment correction inspection  0%   residents
                                              100% nonresidents
72.  Street blocking service                  0%   neighborhood watch others
                                              50%
73.  Ambulance service                        100%
74.  Fire false alarm response                100% after second response
75.  Fire/ambulance report copy               100% up to State maximum
76.  Fire Code enforcement inspection         100%
77.  Fire Code enforcement second             100%
     reinspection
78.  Target (high) hazard inspection          100%
79.  State mandated fire inspection           100% up to State maximum
80.  Sprinkler plan check and inspection      100%
81.  Special fire service                     100%
82.  Spilled load cleanup                     100%
83.  Fireworks application inspection/review  100%
84.  CPR classes                              75%
85.  Illegal burn suppression                 100%
86.  Weed abatement                           100%
87.  Vehicle release processing               100%
88.  Court order service                      100%
89.  Adult sports programs                    75%  (i)
90.  Youth sports programs                    50%  (i)
91.  Private youth ballfield usage            50%  (i)
92.  Private adult ballfield usage            75%  (i)
93.  Tennis court lighting maintenance        65%  (i)
94.  Recreational swimming                    50%  (i)
95.  Salazar recreational swimming            50%  (i)
96.  Swimming lessons                         50%  (i)
97.  Pool rental                              50%  (i)
98.  Picnic shelter rental                    65%  resident (i)
                                              100% nonresident (i)
99.  Salazar Center rental                    75%  (i)
100. Community Center rental                  75%  (i)
101. Art center rental                        75%  (i)
102. Pioneer village rental                   75%  (i)
103. Pioneer village-general admission        75%  (i)
104. Tiny tot program                         50%  (i)
105. Communitywide special events             65%  (i)
106. Greyhound ticket                         50%  (i)
107. After school drop-in program             50%  (i)
108. City recreation class                    50%  (i)
109. Special population program               50%  (i)
110. Storm drain maintenance                  100% (ii)
111. Utility street usage                     100%
112. Sewer utility street usage               100%
113. Refuse utility street usage              100%
114. Street sweeping                          100% (ii)
115. Landscape maintenance                    100%
116. Median and island maintenance            100% (ii)
117. Alley maintenance                        100% (ii)
118. Street tree maintenance                  100% (ii)
119. Streetlight maintenance                  100% (ii)
120. Signal maintenance                       100%
121. Public parking lot maintenance           100%
122. New/moved business license application   100%
     review
123. Business license listing                 100%
124. Return check processing                  100% up to State maximum
125. Yard sale permit review                  100%
126. Rental property maintenance              100%
127. Record research service                  100%
128. Document printing and copying            100% up to State maximum
129. Agenda/minute mailing service            100% up to State maximum
130. Document certification                   100%
131. Notary certification                     100% up to State maximum
132. Business license renewal                 100%
133. Bingo license application                100%
134. Change of parcel address                 100%
135. Radius map listings                      100%
 
   NOTES:
         (i)   These percentages are the maximum percentage of recovery that
the Council has approved. However the actual percentage of recovery shall be
determined by the Recreation and Community Services Director at a level to
maintain the program while moving toward this percentage.
         (ii)   These services are to be phased in by January 2000 in a
percentage sufficient to maintain the service at the Council-determined levels.
(Ord. 98-4, 6-15-1998)
   (B)   The hereinabove services as listed in this Section shall be as defined
in that certain document entitled "Cost Control System for the City of Selma"
dated May 8, 1991, as produced by Management Services Institute, Incorporated,
of Anaheim, California.
   (C)   All fees and charges set pursuant to this Chapter shall take effect
ten (10) days after the City Manager signs an executive order stipulating that
all provisions of this Chapter have been complied with, and no written appeal
has been filed.
   (D)   The schedule of frequency of rate adjustments may be varied by the
City Manager to adjust revenues sufficient to meet debt service coverage
requirements of any bond, certificate, or ordinance, resolution, indenture,
contract, or action under which securities have been issued by the City which
contain any coverage factor requirement.
   (E)   The City Manager may vary the review schedule listed in this Section
if, in the judgment of the City Manager and a directly affected and requesting
department head, a gross inequity would be perpetrated by not revising the rate
schedule. Any such rate revision which deviates from the review schedule as set
herein shall be reported to the City Council at its next succeeding meeting.
(Ord. 91-9, 9-3-1991)
12-3-5: STATUTORY PUBLIC MEETING:
Pursuant to California Government Code sections 54992, 54994.1 and 54994.2, the
City Clerk shall cause notice to be provided as set out in Government Code
sections 54992, 54994.1 and 6062a, and the City Council periodically, at least
annually, shall receive at a regularly scheduled meeting oral and written
presentations concerning fees and charges proposed to be increased or added.
Such notice, oral and written presentation, and public meeting shall be
provided prior to the City Council taking any action on any new or increased
fees or charges. At least one such public hearing shall be held annually, in
conjunction with the City annual budget process hearing. (Ord. 91-9, 9-3-1991)
12-3-6: PROVISION OF DATA:
Pursuant to the California Government Code, at least ten (10) days prior to the
required public hearing set out herein, the City Manager shall make available
to the public appropriate data indicating the cost, or estimated cost required
to support the fees and charges for which changes are proposed to be made or
fees or charges imposed. The City Manager also shall provide a summary to the
present fee and charge schedules and those proposed at such annual public
hearing. A general explanation of such changes also shall be published per the
requirements of Government Code section 6062a. (Ord. 91-9, 9-3-1991)
12-3-7: APPEAL TO CITY COUNCIL:
   (A)   Any person who feels that any fee or charge determined and set is in
excess of the percentage of costs reasonably borne to be recovered as set out
in this Chapter, or that such fee or charge has been reviewed prior to or has
not been reviewed within the review schedule as set out herein, may appeal in
writing to the City Council.
   (B)   No fee or charge for which an appeal has been filed shall take effect
until heard by the City Council. Such appeal shall be placed on the agenda of
the next ensuing regular Council meeting after receipt of such appeal, and
heard at the next ensuing regular Council meeting. Such appealed fee or charge
shall take effect immediately upon hearing by the City Council unless ordered
otherwise by the City Council by ordinance amending this Chapter. (Ord. 91-9,
9-3-1991)
CHAPTER 4
GROUNDWATER OVERDRAFT MITIGATION FEES
SECTION:
12-4-1: Legislative Findings
12-4-2: Purpose
12-4-3: Short Title And Application
12-4-4: Groundwater Impact Fee
12-4-5: Expiration Of Chapter
12-4-6: Penalty
12-4-7: Severability
12-4-1: LEGISLATIVE FINDINGS:
The city council finds, determines and declares that:
   (A)   Local water resources are among the most precious resources of the
city and surrounding area.
   (B)   Management of the water resources serving the residents of the city is
critical to the long term health, welfare and safety of the citizens of the
city.
   (C)   The city's primary water supplies are from underground water
resources, which are being depleted by groundwater extraction that exceeds
groundwater replenishment ("groundwater overdraft").
   (D)   Conversion of land from agricultural to urban uses increases the local
groundwater overdraft and has the potential to seriously deplete available
groundwater resources over time.
   (E)   Provision of municipal water supplies by a public utility within the
boundaries of the city of Selma contributes substantially to the continuing
groundwater overdraft.
   (F)   The causes of and methods for mitigating groundwater overdraft has
been determined through a series of technical studies presented to or prepared
for the city and including a hydrology report prepared by an engineering firm
and included within the environmental impact report (EIR) certified by the city
in connection with approval and adoption of its 2030 general plan update, which
studies and analysis have been reviewed and considered by the city council
prior to adoption of this chapter. The aforementioned technical analysis
provides the basis for the fees established by this chapter.
   (G)   California constitution article XI, section 7, and California Public
Utilities Code section 6203 and 6294 and policies and objectives of the city's
2030 general plan update authorize the city to enact this chapter. (Ord. 2012-
4, 11-5-2012)
12-4-2: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to assess a volumetric fee upon urban water
extractions by the public utility providing water for urban and municipal
residential, commercial, or industrial uses anywhere within the boundaries of
the city, the sphere of influence of the city of Selma as determined by the
Fresno County local agency formation commission, or within the "Selma district"
of the utility as established by the California public utilities commission
(CPUC) to the extent such extractions of groundwater by the public utility is
used, in whole or in part, to provide water for municipal, residential,
commercial or industrial uses within the sphere of influence of the city of
Selma and/or the Selma district of California Water Service Company as defined
by the CPUC to fund programs to mitigate the impact of such groundwater
extraction upon the conditions of groundwater overdraft. Such activities will
include, but shall not be limited to, the following:
   (A)   Acquisition of surface water rights and surface water supplies.
   (B)   Development of groundwater recharge facilities.
   (C)   Reconfiguration of stormwater facilities designed to retain as much
stormwater as possible within and near the city of Selma.
   (D)   Enhancement of cooperative programs with local water management
agencies and companies.
   (E)   Development of more efficient water delivery systems. (Ord. 2014-6, 9-
2-2014)
12-4-3: SHORT TITLE AND APPLICATION:
   (A)   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the CITY OF SELMA
WATER RESOURCE MANAGEMENT AND GROUNDWATER OVERDRAFT MITIGATION FEE ORDINANCE.
   (B)   This chapter shall apply within the incorporated area of the city of
Selma, and within the city of Selma sphere of influence and the Selma district
of California Water Service Company, the utility providing water service for
municipal, residential, commercial and industrial uses within and outside of
the city boundaries to the full extent permitted by article XI, sections 7 and
9 of the constitution of the state of California. (Ord. 2014-6, 9-2-2014)
12-4-4: GROUNDWATER IMPACT FEE:
   (A)   Commencing on the date on which a determination of the California
public utilities commission relating to the application of this chapter becomes
effective or final (the "effective date"), the public utility, California Water
Service Company, or its successor (the "utility"), which supplies municipal
water within the city of Selma to residential, commercial or industrial water
users shall pay to the city a groundwater impact or replenishment fee computed
as follows:
      1.   The utility shall equip all groundwater wells, operated by it and
located within the city of Selma boundaries, or the city of Selma sphere of
influence, or within the "Selma district" of the utility used to provide water
anywhere within such territory for municipal, residential, commercial or
industrial use, with meters that accurately measure the instantaneous flow and
accumulated volume of water extracted from the groundwater by those wells
("groundwater extraction") and report to the city within thirty (30) days after
each calendar quarter, of each year following the effective date hereof, the
volume of groundwater extraction for the previous calendar quarter.
      2.   The volume of net groundwater extraction shall be determined by
reducing the reported volume of groundwater extraction by twenty seven percent
(27%).
      3.   The utility shall pay to the city of Selma within thirty (30) days
after the end of the calendar year following the effective date hereof, and
annually thereafter, the following amounts:
         (a)   Sixty nine one-thousandths dollars ($0.069) per one hundred
(100) cubic feet of net groundwater extraction occurring during the calendar
year; and
         (b)   Twenty three one-hundredths dollars ($0.23) per one hundred
(100) cubic feet of net groundwater extraction occurring during the calendar
year (the "replenishment fee").
   (B)   The utility shall maintain records of all pumping for the purpose of
supplying water within the city. Such records shall identify the volume of
water pumped from each well utilized to provide water service within the city.
Such records shall be subject to inspection by the city during normal business
hours after providing five (5) working days' notice of intent to inspect such
records.
   (C)   In lieu of the payment of the fee specified above, the city may, in
its sole discretion, reduce the portion of the replenishment fee that is twenty
three one-hundredths dollars ($0.23) per one hundred (100) cubic feet of net
groundwater extraction occurring during the calendar year to an amount that is
equal to the following percentages of said portion of the replenishment fee:
      1.   For the first year during which this chapter and the obligation for
payment of the replenishment fee is in effect, twelve and one-half percent
(12.5%) of said portion of such fee.
      2.   During the second year this chapter is in effect, twenty five
percent (25%) of said portion of such fee.
      3.   During the third year this chapter is in effect, thirty seven and
one-half percent (37.5%) of said portion of such fee.
      4.   During the fourth year this chapter is in effect, fifty percent
(50%) of said portion of such fee.
      5.   During the fifth year this chapter is in effect, sixty two and one-
half percent (62.5%) of said portion of such fee.
      6.   During the sixth year this chapter is in effect, seventy five
percent (75%) of said portion of such fee.
      7.   During the seventh year this chapter is in effect, eighty seven and
one-half percent (87.5%) of said portion of such fee.
      8.   During and after the eighth year this chapter is in effect, one
hundred percent (100%) of said portion of such fee shall be payable.
   (D)   The groundwater impact or replenishment fee required by this section
shall be payable, if, but only if, by application to the California public
utilities commission, the utility is permitted and authorized to impose a
surcharge payable by the customers of the utility in an amount necessary to
cover the full amount of the fees payable and the time for payment of the fees,
and the implementation of all actions required or allowed by this chapter shall
be determined by reference to the date on which such approval of the California
public utilities commission is effective or final.
   (E)   Within thirty (30) days after the effective date hereof, the utility
shall file with the California public utilities commission and, thereafter
diligently pursue appropriate applications for approval of the California
public utilities commission (PUC) of the utility undertaking the obligations
imposed by this chapter and after receiving approval of the PUC shall observe
and perform all requirements of this chapter. In the event the PUC does not
approve of the imposition of the fees required by this chapter on the utility,
or does not approve the surcharge necessary to fund the payments required by
this chapter, the utility shall timely petition the PUC to reconsider and
revise its opinion or order or shall appeal the same in the manner permitted by
law.
   (F)   Following the fifth anniversary on which this chapter becomes
effective, the fees payable by the utility to the city as required in this
section, shall be subject to an annual increase equal to the amount of the
increase of the consumer price index (CPI) using the "All Urban Consumers San
Francisco-Oakland-San Jose Area, All Items (1982-84=100) Index", as published
by the United States department of labor, bureau of labor statistics. The
utility shall include in its application or petition to the PUC to approve the
payment of fees required by this chapter and/or the imposition of a surcharge
to customers necessary to fund payments required by this chapter a request or
application that the fee shall increase by the amount of the said index, in the
manner specified above.
   (G)   That portion of the replenishment fee that is twenty three one-
hundredths dollars ($0.23) shall be placed into a replenishment fund and may
only be used for the purpose of developing recharge projects or for the
transfer, delivery or purchase of surface water for recharge, as determined by
a vote of a committee established for that purpose. In connection with making
any decision concerning use of any money in the replenishment fund, the city of
Selma will meet and confer with the utility, California Water Service Company,
or its successor, concerning how it should vote relating to the making of
expenditures from the replenishment fund for recharge activities or projects,
and in the event of any disagreement over the proposed expenditure between the
city and California Water Service Company, the city shall defer to California
Water Service Company and the city representative on the said committee shall
vote in the manner requested by the utility. (Ord. 2014-11, 10-20-2014)
12-4-5: EXPIRATION OF CHAPTER:
This chapter shall be in full force and effect for the entire term of that
certain cooperative agreement between the city of Selma and consolidated
irrigation district dated October 1, 2012, either as originally set by the
agreement or as extended pursuant to the provisions thereof and this chapter
will expire and cease to be of any force or effect on the date on which the
cooperative agreement is terminated. (Ord. 2014-7, 9-2-2014)
12-4-6: PENALTY:
Any violation of this chapter shall be prosecuted in the same manner as
misdemeanors and upon conviction the violator shall be punished according to
law; however, in addition to or in lieu of any criminal prosecution the city
shall have the power and standing to sue in civil court to enforce the
provisions of this chapter against the utility. (Ord. 2014-7, 9-2-2014)
12-4-7: SEVERABILITY:
If any section, phrase, sentence or portion of this chapter is for any reason
held invalid or unconstitutional by any court of competent jurisdiction such
portions shall be deemed a separate, distinct and independent provision and
such holdings shall not affect the validity of the remaining portions thereof.
(Ord. 2014-7, 9-2-2014)
 
 
