CITY CODE
of
TAFT, CALIFORNIA
1963
Code current through:
Ord. 852-23, passed 7-18-2023
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 * www.amlegal.com
PREFACE
This code of the City of Taft, as supplemented, contains ordinances up to and
including ordinance 852-23, passed July 18, 2023. Ordinances of the City
adopted after said ordinance supersede the provisions of this code to the
extent that they are in conflict or inconsistent therewith. Consult the City
office in order to ascertain whether any particular provision of the code has
been amended, superseded or repealed.
American Legal Publishing
Cincinnati, Ohio
ORDINANCES PENDING REVIEW FOR CODIFICATION
Listed ordinances have been passed, but they are pending review by the
publisher, and they may not amend the code of ordinances. Additionally,
ordinances listed in this section may not show the original ordinances in their
entirety. Please contact the office of the clerk if there are any questions
concerning any listed ordinances.
ORDINANCE NO. 853-24
 
AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF TAFT ADDING SECTION 1-7-6 TO
CHAPTER 7 OF TITLE 1 AUTHORIZING AN AMENDMENT TO THE CONTRACT BETWEEN THE CITY
COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF TAFT AND THE BOARD OF ADMINISTRATION OF THE CALIFORNIA
PUBLIC EMPLOYEES’ RETIREMENT SYSTEM
 
WHEREAS, the City Council of the City of Taft and the Board of Administration
of the California Public Employees’ Retirement System originally entered into a
contract effective February 16, 1976, and witnessed January 5, 1976, being
amended effective June 21, 1993, October 3, 1996, and August 17, 2000, which
provides for participation of the City of Taft in said System; and
 
WHEREAS, a Resolution of Intention to approve another amendment to such
contract was approved and adopted by the City Council of the City of Taft at
their regularly scheduled meeting on October 15, 2024 for the purpose of said
amendment; and
 
WHEREAS, the City Council of the City of Taft now intends to approve and
memorialize this amendment and authorize the Mayor to execute the amendment on
behalf of the City; and
 
NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF TAFT DOES HEREBY ORDAIN AS
FOLLOWS:
 
SECTION 1. That an amendment to the contract between the City Council of the
City of Taft and the Board of Administration, California Public Employees’
Retirement System is hereby authorized a copy of said amendment being attached
hereto, marked Exhibit, and by such reference made a part hereof as though
herein set out in full.
 
SECTION 2. The Mayor of the City Council of the City of Taft is hereby
authorized, empowered, and directed to execute said amendment for and on behalf
of said Agency.
 
SECTION 3. This Ordinance shall take effect thirty (30) days after the date of
its adoption, and within fifteen (15) days after its adoption shall be
published at least once in the Daily Midway Driller, a newspaper of general
circulation, published and circulated in the City of Taft together with the
names of members of the City Council voting for and against the same and
thenceforth and thereafter the same shall be in full force and effect.
 
PASSED AND ADOPTED on this 19th day of November, 2024.
 
                         s/Dave Noerr, Mayor
Attest:
 
s/Yvette Mayfield, MMC
City Clerk
 
Approved as to form:
 
s/Jason Epperson, City Attorney
 
 
 
STATE OF CALIFORNIA   {'}'}
COUNTY OF KERN       {'}'}SS
CITY OF TAFT       {'}'}
 
I, Yvette Mayfield, City Clerk of the City of Taft, do hereby certify that the
foregoing Ordinance had its first reading on November 5, 2024, and had it
second reading on November 19, 2024, and was passed by the following vote:
 
AYES:    COUNCILMEMBERS: Krier, Bryant, Waldrop, Chavira, Noerr
NOES:      COUNCILMEMBERS: None
ABSTAIN:    COUNCILMEMBERS: None
ABSENT:    COUNCILMEMBERS: None
 
 
s/Yvette Mayfield, MMC
City Clerk
 
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE NO. 295
AN ORDINANCE PROVIDING FOR THE CODIFICATION OF THE GENERAL ORDINANCES OF THE
CITY OF TAFT, CALIFORNIA, AND PROVIDING FOR THE ADOPTION OF THE OFFICIAL CODE
OF THE CITY OF TAFT.
The City Council of the City of Taft does ordain as follows:
   Section 1. From and after the date of passage of this Ordinance the Official
City Code of the City of Taft is hereby approved and accepted and shall be the
Official Code of all Ordinances of a general and permanent character of the
City.
   Section 2. That the titles of secondary codes therein adopted by reference
are the National Electrical Code (1959), the Uniform Electrical Code (1959),
the Uniform Plumbing Code (1958), and the Uniform Building Code (1961), and
appendix made a part thereof, Pages 373-408, inc.
   Section 3. At least three (3) copies of the Official City Code and National
and Uniform Codes adopted therein by reference, shall at all times be on file
and available for inspection in the office of the Clerk.
   Section 4. Any violation of such Official City Code shall be punishable by a
fine not exceeding five hundred dollars ($500.00) or imprisonment for a term
not exceeding six (6) months, or by both such fine and imprisonment.
   Section 5. This Ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty (30) days
after passage and due publication.
   Passed and approved by the Mayor and Council this 16th day of March, 1964.
         /s/ Pete Gianopulos, Mayor
ATTEST:
/s/ Helen Lepper, Clerk
TITLE I
ADMINISTRATIVE
CHAPTER 1
CITY CODE
SECTION:
1-1-1: Adoption
1-1-2: Title; Citation; Reference
1-1-3: Reference Applies To Amendments
1-1-4: Codification Authority
1-1-5: Definitions
1-1-6: Title, Chapter And Section Headings
1-1-7: Reference To Specific Ordinances
1-1-8: Effect On Past Actions And Obligations
1-1-9: Effective Date
1-1-10: Severability
1-1-11: Violations, Misdemeanors And Infractions
1-1-12: Administrative Enforcement
1-1-13: Criminal Prosecution
1-1-14: Recovery Of Attorneys’ Fees; Prevailing Party
1-1-1: ADOPTION:
The Taft Municipal Code, as compiled from the ordinances of the City of Taft,
California, and edited and published by Sterling Codifiers, Inc., of Weiser,
Idaho, is hereby adopted as the official code of the City of Taft. (Ord. 603,
10-19-1993)
1-1-2: TITLE; CITATION; REFERENCE:
This Code shall be known as the TAFT MUNICIPAL CODE and it shall be sufficient
to refer to the Code as the "Taft Municipal Code" in any prosecution for the
violation of any provision thereof or in any proceeding at law or equity. It
shall also be sufficient to designate any ordinance adding to, amending,
correcting or repealing all or any part or portion thereof as an addition to,
amendment to, correction of or repeal of the Taft Municipal Code. Further
reference may be had to the titles, chapters, sections and subsections of the
Taft Municipal Code and such reference shall apply to that numbered title,
chapter, section or subsection as it appears in that Code. (Ord. 603, 10-19-
1993)
1-1-3: REFERENCE APPLIES TO AMENDMENTS:
Whenever a reference is made to this Code as the Taft Municipal Code or to any
portion thereof, or to any portion of the ordinances of Taft, that reference
shall apply to all amendments, corrections and additions heretofore, now, or
hereafter made. (Ord. 603, 10-19-1993)
1-1-4: CODIFICATION AUTHORITY:
This Code consists of all of the regulatory and penal ordinances and certain of
the administrative ordinances codified pursuant to sections 50022.1 through
50022.10 of the California Government Code. (Ord. 603, 10-19-1993)
1-1-5: DEFINITIONS:
Unless the context otherwise requires, the following words and phrases where
used in City ordinances shall have the meaning and construction given in this
section:
ACROSS:               Includes along, in or upon.
CITY:                 The City of Taft.
CODE:                 The Taft Municipal Code, including all uniform codes
                      adopted by the City.
COUNCIL:              The Taft City Council.
COUNTY:               Kern County.
EX OFFICIO:           By virtue of office.
GENDER:               The masculine gender includes the feminine and neuter.
GOODS:                Includes wares and merchandise.
NUMBER:               The singular number includes the plural, and the plural
                      includes the singular.
OATH:                 Includes affirmation.
OPERATE OR ENGAGE IN: Includes carry on, keep, conduct, maintain or cause to be
                      kept or maintained.
                      When pertaining to a building or land shall include any
OWNER:                part owner, joint owner, tenant in common or joint tenant
                      of the whole or part of such building or land.
                      Any natural person, firm, association, joint venture,
                      joint stock company, partnership, organization, club,
PERSON:               company, corporation, business trust or the manager,
                      lessee, agent, servant, officer or employee of any of
                      them.
SALE:                 Includes any sale, exchange, barter or offer for sale.
SHALL, MAY:           "Shall" is mandatory, "may" is permissive.
STATE:                The state of California.
                      Includes all streets, highways, public roads, county
                      roads, avenues, lanes, alleys, courts, places, squares,
STREET:               curbs, sidewalks, parkways or other public ways in Taft
                      which have been or may hereafter be dedicated and open to
                      the public use, or such other public property so
                      designated in any law of this state.
                      When pertaining to a building or land, shall include any
TENANT OR OCCUPANT:   person who occupies the whole or part of such building or
                      land, whether alone or with others and whether subject to
                      any lease or other agreement or not.
TENSES:               The present tense includes the past and future tenses,
                      and the future tense includes the present tense.
                      The use of the title of any officer, employee,
TITLE OF OFFICE:      department, board or commission means that officer,
                      employee, department, board or commission of the city of
                      Taft. (Ord. 603, 10-19-1993; amd. Ord. 852-23, 7-18-2023)
 
1-1-6: TITLE, CHAPTER AND SECTION HEADINGS:
Title, chapter and section headings contained herein shall not be deemed to
govern, limit, modify or in any manner affect the scope, meaning or intent of
the provisions of any title, chapter or section hereof. (Ord. 603, 10-19-1993)
1-1-7: REFERENCE TO SPECIFIC ORDINANCES:
The provisions of this code shall not in any manner affect deposits or other
matters of record which refer to, or are otherwise connected with ordinances
which are therein specifically designated by number or otherwise and which are
included within this code, but such reference shall be construed to apply to
the corresponding provisions contained within this code. (Ord. 603, 10-19-1993)
1-1-8: EFFECT ON PAST ACTIONS AND OBLIGATIONS:
Neither the adoption of this code nor the repeal or amendment hereby of any
ordinance or any part of any ordinance of the city shall in any manner affect
the prosecution for violations of ordinances, which violations were committed
prior to the effective date of the ordinance codified in this chapter, nor be
construed as a waiver of any license, fee or penalty at said effective date due
and unpaid under such ordinance, nor be construed as affecting any of the
provisions of such ordinance relating to the collection of any such license,
fee or penalty, or the penalty provisions applicable to any violation thereof,
nor to affect the validity of any bond or cash deposit in lieu thereof required
to be posted, filed or deposited pursuant to any ordinance, and all rights and
obligations thereunder appertaining shall continue in full force and effect.
(Ord. 603, 10-19-1993)
1-1-9: EFFECTIVE DATE:
The Taft municipal code shall become effective on the date that the ordinance
codified herein becomes effective. (Ord. 603, 10-19-1993)
1-1-10: SEVERABILITY:
If any section, subsection, sentence, clause, phrase, part or portion of this
code is for any reason held to be invalid or unconstitutional by any court of
competent jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the validity of the
remaining portions of this code. The city council hereby declares that it would
have adopted this code and each section, subsection, sentence, clause, phrase,
part or portion thereof, irrespective of the fact that any one or more
sections, subsections, sentences, clauses, phrases, parts or portions be
declared invalid or unconstitutional. (Ord. 603, 10-19-1993)
1-1-11: VIOLATIONS, MISDEMEANORS AND INFRACTIONS 1 :
   (A)   Any violation of any of the provisions of or failing to comply with
any of the mandatory requirements of the ordinances of the City is a
misdemeanor, unless the violation is made an infraction by ordinance or through
the discretion of the enforcement officer, city attorney, or prosecuting
counsel.
   (B)   Except in cases where a different punishment is prescribed by any
ordinance of the City, any person convicted of a misdemeanor for violation of
an ordinance of the City is punishable by a fine of not more than one thousand
dollars ($1,000.00), or by imprisonment not to exceed six (6) months, or by
both such fine and imprisonment.
   (C)   Any violation of this code determined to be an infraction is
punishable by:
      1.   A fine not exceeding one hundred ($100.00) for a first violation.
      2.   A fine not exceeding two hundred dollars ($200.00) for a second
violation of the same ordinance within one year.
      3.   A fine not exceeding five hundred dollars ($500.00) for each
additional violation of the same ordinance within one year of the first
violation.
   (D)   Notwithstanding any other provision of law, a violation of local
building and safety codes determined to be an infraction is punishable by the
following:
      1.   A fine not exceeding one hundred thirty dollars ($130.00) for a
first violation.
      2.   A fine not exceeding seven hundred dollars ($700.00) for a second
violation of the same ordinance within one year.
      3.   A fine not exceeding one thousand three hundred dollars ($1,300.00)
for each additional violation of the same ordinance within one year of the
first violation.
      4.   A fine not exceeding two thousand five hundred dollars ($2,500.00)
for each additional violation of the same ordinance within two (2) years of the
first violation if the property is a commercial property that has an existing
building at the time of the violation and the violation is due to failure by
the owner to remove visible refuse or failure to prohibit unauthorized use of
the property.
   For fines issued under subsections C2, C3, D2, D3, and D4 of this section,
the process in title 1, chapter 3, section 1-3-7 of this code for considering a
hardship waiver to reduce the fine applies. For fines under this section, the
City may change the capped amounts as needed by resolution of the council. For
fines assessed under this section, it is within the discretion of the
enforcement officer or other official authorized to issue such fine to
determine the fine amount or any applicable reduction as the case may be in the
interest of justice.
   (E)   When a violation at issue in an administrative citation subject to a
fine or penalty pertains to any violation of title V (Building Regulations) or
the title VI (Planning and Zoning), that does not create an immediate danger to
health or safety, the responsible party(ies) shall be provided a reasonable
period of time, not longer than thirty (30) days, to correct or otherwise
remedy the violation prior to the imposition of administrative fines or
penalties. Notwithstanding the foregoing, immediate imposition of
administrative fines or penalties for the violation of title V (Building
Regulations) or the title VI (Planning and Zoning) may be had if the violation
exists as a result of, or to facilitate, the illegal cultivation of cannabis.
However, a reasonable period of time for the correction or remedy of the
violation prior to the imposition of administrative fines or penalties is
required in such circumstance if all of the following are true: (i) a tenant is
in possession of the property that is the subject of the administrative action;
(ii) the rental property owner or agent can provide evidence that the rental or
lease agreement prohibits the cultivation of cannabis; (iii) the rental
property owner or agent did not know the tenant was illegally cultivating
cannabis and no complaint, property inspection, or other information caused the
rental property owner or agent to have actual notice of the illegal cannabis
cultivation.
   (F)   Each such person shall be guilty of a separate offense for each and
every day during any portion of which any violation of any provision of the
code is committed, continued or permitted by any such person, and he shall be
punishable accordingly. (Ord. 694-02, 8-20-2002; amd. Ord. 852-23, 7-18-2023)
 
Notes
1 1. See also chapter 3 of this title.
1-1-12: ADMINISTRATIVE ENFORCEMENT:
The following employees, agents and/or persons are authorized to enforce the
provisions of this code: city manager, assistant city manager, public works
director, public works foreman, wastewater treatment plant superintendent,
community services officer, code enforcement officer, building official,
building inspector, city engineer, director of planning and building, humane
officer and sworn officers of the police and fire departments.
Pursuant to Government Code section 37104, et seq., the legislative body may
issue subpoenas requiring attendance of witnesses or production of books or
other documents for evidence or testimony in any action or proceeding pending
before it and the subpoenas shall be signed by the Mayor and attested by the
city clerk. (Ord. 603, 10-19-1993; amd. Ord. 852-23, 7-18-2023)
1-1-13: CRIMINAL PROSECUTION:
The city attorney or his designated representative, are authorized to prosecute
criminal violations of this code in the Superior Court of California, Kern
County. (Ord. 603, 10-19-1993; amd. Ord. 852-23, 7-18-2023)
1-1-14: RECOVERY OF ATTORNEYS’ FEES; PREVAILING PARTY:
   (A)   Recovery Authorized: The prevailing party in any judicial action,
administrative proceeding, or special proceeding to abate a nuisance may
recover its reasonable attorneys' fees, provided that the City elected, at the
initiation of such individual action or proceeding, to recover its own
attorneys' fees. In no judicial action or administrative proceeding shall an
award of attorneys' fees to a prevailing party exceed the amount of reasonable
attorneys' fees incurred by the City in the judicial action, administrative
proceeding, or special proceeding to abate a nuisance. In addition to any other
basis, the City shall also be determined the prevailing party when a person
complies voluntarily or involuntarily after a deadline in a notice issued by
the City expires, and also when the City's enforcement action was a cause or
catalyst for compliance. The failure of a court to award attorneys' fees to the
City shall not preclude the City from recovering its attorneys' fees and costs
administratively or through another process as provided by law.
   (B)   A judicial action includes, but is not limited to, any civil action,
inspection or abatement warrant, administrative proceeding, or appeal from an
administrative proceeding. "Abatement" shall include any action taken by the
City to cause or otherwise obtain compliance with this municipal code, uniform
or adopted codes by the City, or any provision of State or Federal law that may
be enforced by the City, even if the violation is ultimately corrected by the
responsible party. (Ord. 852-23, 7-18-2023)
CHAPTER 2
CITATIONS; NOTICES TO APPEAR
SECTION:
1-2-1: Notice To Appear
1-2-2: Violation Of Promise To Appear
1-2-3: Warrant For Arrest
1-2-4: Enforcement
1-2-5: Code Enforcement Officers - Authority To Arrest
1-2-1: NOTICE TO APPEAR:
If any person is arrested for the violation of any ordinance of the city and
such person is not immediately taken before a magistrate as prescribed in the
state Penal Code, the arresting officer shall prepare a written notice to
appear in court, containing the name and address of such person, the offense
charged, and the time and place where and when such person shall appear in
court. (Ord. 694-02, 8-20-2002)
1-2-2: VIOLATION OF PROMISE TO APPEAR:
Any person wilfully violating his written promise to appear in court is guilty
of a misdemeanor regardless of the disposition of the charge upon which he was
originally arrested and shall be punished by a fine of not more than five
hundred dollars ($500.00) or by imprisonment in the county jail for a period of
not more than six (6) months, or by both such fine and imprisonment. (Ord. 694-
02, 8-20-2002)
1-2-3: WARRANT FOR ARREST:
When a person signs a written promise to appear at the time and place specified
in the written promise to appear and has not posted bail as provided in section
853.6 of the state Penal Code, the magistrate shall issue and have delivered
for execution a warrant for his arrest within twenty (20) days after his
failure to appear as promised, or if such person promises to appear before an
officer authorized to accept bail other than a magistrate and fails to do so on
or before the date which he promises to appear, then, within twenty (20) days
after the delivery of such written promise to appear by the officer, to a
magistrate having jurisdiction over the offense. (Ord. 603, 10-19-1993)
1-2-4: ENFORCEMENT:
The City Council may by ordinance authorize any officer or employee who has the
duty to enforce a statute or ordinance to arrest persons for violations of such
statute or ordinance as provided in section 836.5 of the Penal Code of the
state of California. Such public officer or employee may arrest a person
without a warrant whenever he or she has reasonable cause to believe that the
person to be arrested has committed a misdemeanor in his or her presence which
is in violation of a statute or ordinance which the employee has the duty to
enforce. (Ord. 852-23, 7-18-2023)
1-2-5:    CODE ENFORCEMENT OFFICERS - AUTHORITY TO ARREST:
It is the duty of city code enforcement officers to enforce the provisions of
this code and any code enforcement officer is authorized to arrest any person
without a warrant whenever the code enforcement officer has a reasonable cause
to believe that the person arrested has committed a misdemeanor or infraction
in the code enforcement officer's presence which is a violation of this code.
(Ord. 852-23, 7-18-2023)
CHAPTER 3
ADMINISTRATIVE CITATIONS AND PENALTIES
SECTION:
1-3-1: Purpose And Intent
1-3-2: Nonexclusive Remedy
1-3-3: Definitions
1-3-4: Administrative Citation
1-3-5: Administrative Fines And Penalties
1-3-6: Collection Of Unpaid Fines And Fees
1-3-7: Hardship Waiver For Fines
1-3-8: Appeal Of Administrative Citation
1-3-9: Administrative Hearing Procedures
1-3-10: Procedures For Selection Of Hearing Officer For Administrative Hearing;
Decision
1-3-11: Appeal To Superior Court
1-3-1: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
It is the intent of the city council in enacting this chapter to ensure
compliance with this code and to deter violations of this code. The city
council also finds that there is a need for an alternative method to enforce
provisions of this code, as amended from time to time. The council further
finds that the assessment of civil fines and penalties through an
administrative hearing procedure for code violations in accordance with
Government Code section 53069.4 is a necessary, alternative method of code
enforcement. (Ord. 797-13, 6-18-2013)
1-3-2: NONEXCLUSIVE REMEDY:
This chapter is just one method of enforcement of violations of the municipal
code and other laws the City is authorized to enforce. It shall supplement and
be in addition to the other regulatory codes, statutes and ordinances
heretofore or hereafter enacted by the City, the state of California, or any
other legal entity or agency having jurisdiction. The City may concurrently,
separately, or consecutively utilize other methods of enforcement for ensuring
compliance with applicable laws, including but not limited to, civil remedies
such as injunctions, criminal remedies such as prosecution, and other
administrative remedies available under applicable law, including nuisance
abatement under chapters 4, 4.1, 4.2, 4.3 and 5 of title III. (Ord. 797-13, 6-
18-2013; amd. Ord. 852-23, 7-18-2023)
1-3-3: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter:
 
                                     Any violation of any of the uniform codes
                                     adopted pursuant to the adopting
BUILDING VIOLATION:                  ordinance, or any violation of the zoning
                                     regulations set forth in titles III, V,
                                     and VI of this code.
CITATION OR ADMINISTRATIVE CITATION: A citation issued pursuant to this
                                     chapter.
DAYS:                                Calendar days.
                                     The code enforcement officer, the building
                                     official, the fire marshal, the planning
                                     public official, the chief of police, or
ENFORCEMENT OFFICER:                 their designees, or any other individual
                                     or body appointed by the City Council or
                                     city manager to enforce codes and who is
                                     authorized to enforce the law.
                                     An individual, association, partnership,
                                     political subdivision, government agency,
PERSON:                              municipality, limited liability company,
                                     public or private corporation, firm,
                                     organization, joint venture or any other
                                     entity.
                                     An individual, association, partnership,
                                     political subdivision, government agency,
                                     municipality, limited liability company,
                                     public or private corporation, firm,
                                     organization, joint venture or any other
                                     entity whatsoever whose action or actions
                                     caused or contributed to violations of
                                     laws, including a person who causes a code
                                     violation to occur; a person who maintains
                                     or allows a code violation to continue, by
                                     his or her action or failure to act; a
                                     person whose agent, employee, or
                                     independent contractor causes or maintains
                                     a code violation by its action or failure
                                     to act; a person who is the owner of, and
                                     a person who is a tenant, lessee or
RESPONSIBLE PARTY:                   sublessee with the current right of
                                     possession of real property where a
                                     property-related code violation occurs; a
                                     person who is the on-site manager of a
                                     business who normally works daily at the
                                     site when the business is open and is
                                     responsible for the activities at such
                                     premises; and a person who is the
                                     beneficiary under a deed of trust for the
                                     property where a property-related code
                                     violation exists and that person has not
                                     corrected the violation within fifteen
                                     days after being notified of the violation
                                     and the fact that the trustor under the
                                     deed of trust is no longer living on the
                                     property and his or her whereabouts are
                                     unknown. (Ord. 797-13, 6-18-2013; amd.
                                     Ord. 852-23, 7-18-2023)
 
1-3-4: ADMINISTRATIVE CITATION:
   (A)   Upon discovering or observing any violation of the municipal code or
other law the City is authorized to enforce, an enforcement officer may issue
an administrative citation, in a form approved by the city manager, to the
responsible party or responsible parties, with the following contents:
      1.   Date and location of the violation(s), including the street address,
if any, and the approximate time the violation(s) were observed;
      2.   Section(s) of the code violated and brief description of how the
section(s) are violated; if the citation is for a violation of the Code of
Building Regulations set forth in section
5-1-3 of title V, the citation shall include a statement specifying the
behaviors or conditions which constitute the violation;
      3.   Description of the action required to correct the violation(s), if
applicable; and if applicable, the date by which the violation must be
corrected;
      4.   Order to the responsible party to report to the issuing enforcement
officer when each cited violation is cured, along with the responsible party's
necessary contact information for the enforcement officer to verify;
      5.   Statement explaining the consequences of failure to correct the
violation(s), including the City pursuing additional enforcement action under
the code to obtain compliance;
      6.   Amount of fine imposed for the violation(s) as set forth in section
1-1-11 with explanation of how the fine shall be paid and the time period by
which it shall be paid, and the consequences of failure to pay the fine;
      7.   Right to contest the validity of the violations found in the
administrative citation with reference to the appeal process under section
1-3-8 and the name and address of the office of the city manager for purposes
of filing any notice of appeal; and
      8.   Signature of the enforcement officer.
   (B)   The enforcement officer shall attempt to issue the citation to the
responsible party for any violation of this code. For purposes of issuance of a
citation to an entity, the citation may be issued to the person in immediate
control of the entity on site at the time of the issuance of the administrative
citation and fine (as determined by the enforcement officer's observation), the
person or entity registered as the agent for service of process of the entity
through the California Secretary of State, or the registered agent of the
entity on file with the City if the entity has a business license with the
City, as the case may be.
   (C)   Whenever any document, notice, or administrative citation is required
to be served under this section, unless specifically provided otherwise, it may
be served by any one of the following methods:
      1.   Personal service on the party.
      2.   First-class or certified mail to the party at that party's last
known address, but if no valid address that party can be determined, then by
posting in a conspicuous place on the property upon which a violation of this
code exists.
      3.   For any parties that reside at, or occupy, the property upon which a
violation of this code exists, by posting in a conspicuous place on said
property.
      4.   For any party registered with the Secretary of State, by certified
mail to that party's agent for service of process at the address registered
with the Secretary of State, or as otherwise permitted by law. For any such
party required to register with the Secretary of State that has not designated
an agent for service of process with the Secretary of State, then a notice may
be served on that party by certified mail to the Secretary of State.
      5.   By email to the party when an email address is provided by that
party and service by email is agreed to by that party.
   Service by mail shall be deemed effective upon deposit in the mail. Service
by posting shall be deemed effective at the time of posting. Service by email
shall be deemed effective at the time of emailing. The failure of any party, or
any other person with a legal or equitable interest in the property upon which
a violation of this code exists, to receive any notice or administrative
citation served in accordance with this section shall not affect the validity
of the notice nor any proceeding conducted pursuant to that notice. (Ord. 797-
13, 6-18-2013; amd. Ord. 852-23, 7-18-2023)
1-3-5: ADMINISTRATIVE FINES AND PENALTIES:
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this code, as amended from time
to time, may be subject to the assessment of civil fines and penalties as
provided in section
1-1-11 of this code pursuant to the administrative procedures established in
this chapter and authorized by Government Code section 53069.4.
   (B)   Any person violating any provision of the code or other law the City
is authorized to enforce may be issued an administrative citation by any
enforcement officer described in section
1-3-3.
   (C)   A separate civil fine for each violation of the code may be assessed
by means of one administrative citation.
   (D)   Each day a violation persists is a separate offense.
   (E)   Administrative fines shall be paid to the City within twenty (20) days
from the date of service of the administrative citation, unless an appeal is
timely and properly requested as provided in section
1-3-8. If a timely and proper appeal is requested, payment of the
administrative fines is governed by section
1-3-8.
   (F)   Payment of any fine shall not excuse the failure to correct the
violation nor shall it bar further enforcement action by the City. The failure
of any person to pay any fine assessed by administrative citation within the
time specified on the administrative citation shall result in the assessment of
an additional late fee to be charged. The amount of the late fee shall be ten
percent of the total amount of the civil fine due and owing. (Ord. 797-13, 6-
18-2013; amd. Ord. 852-23, 7-18-2023)
1-3-6: COLLECTION OF UNPAID FINES AND FEES:
   (A)   The City shall collect delinquent fines and any associated late fee as
allowed by law. The City Council may set by resolution such late fees. (Ord.
852-23, 7-18-2023)
1-3-7: HARDSHIP WAIVER FOR FINES:
   (A)   When the City imposes a second or third fine pursuant to subsections
1-1-11C2, C3, D2, D3, and D4, any person who has made a bona fide effort to
comply after the first violation and who would suffer an undue financial burden
if required to pay the full amount of a second or third fine, may request a
waiver to reduce the amount of the imposed fine by completing and submitting
the city-approved application form for a fine hardship waiver (hereafter the
"fine hardship waiver"). This fine hardship waiver form and all required
accompanying records must be submitted within twenty (20) days of issuance of
the fine to the city clerk, 209 E. Kern St., Taft, CA 93268.
   (B)   To be considered for a fine hardship waiver, the application form must
be complete, signed, and must be accompanied by documents that enable the City
to reasonably determine the person's bona fide effort to comply after the first
violation and substantiation on the person's suffering of an undue financial
burden if required to pay the full amount of the fine imposed. Documents
suitable for consideration demonstrating the person's bona fide effort to
comply after the first violation may include, without limitation, a declaration
attesting to the compliance efforts made, photographs of the efforts attesting
to the compliance efforts made, copies of receipts, contracts, work orders, or
other documentation reflecting compliance efforts made. Documents suitable for
consideration demonstrating the person's undue financial burden if required to
pay the fine may include, without limitation, a declaration attesting to the
undue financial burden and reasons therefor, complete and legible copies of
state and federal income tax returns and all schedules for the preceding tax
year; financial statements, loan applications, bank account records, income and
expense records for twelve (12) months preceding submittal of the fine hardship
waiver application. The documents may and should be submitted with redactions
for private information, such as social security number information and account
numbers. After a determination is made on the person's fine hardship waiver
application, the City will destroy the documents submitted by a person for a
fine hardship waiver without prior notice to the person.
   (C)   The City via its city manager or his or her designee will issue a
written decision specifying the reasons for issuing or not issuing the fine
hardship waiver, including the revised fine amount, if applicable. This
decision is final and non-appealable. The decision shall be served upon the
person requesting the fine hardship waiver by first class mail.
   (D)   Payment of the fine shall be due within twenty (20) days of the
issuance of the fine, however, in cases where a written decision on the fine
hardship waiver has not been issued before expiration of that twenty (20) day
period, payment shall be due within seven (7) days of the date the decision is
deposited with the U.S. Postal Service. Payment shall be made to the city
clerk, 209 E. Kern St., Taft, CA 93268. In the event the city clerk does not
receive the full amount of the fine within the required period: (1) fines or
other penalties not paid within that time shall accrue interest at the rate set
forth by the Council; and (2) the City may take further action to ensure
payment as provided by law.
   (E)   Should a fine hardship waiver be granted, the amount in the City's
written decision shall be controlling for purposes of the fine amount for any
administrative hearing requested under section 1-3-8. (Ord. 852-23, 7-18-2023)
1-3-8: APPEAL OF ADMINISTRATIVE CITATION:
Appeals shall follow the procedures set forth below:
   (A)   Any responsible party issued an administrative citation may contest
the validity of the violations found in the administrative citation by filing
an appeal with the office of the city manager on a City-approved hearing
request form within twenty (20) days from the date of service of the
administrative citation setting forth the grounds for the challenge to the
validity of the violations found in the administrative citation. The request
may be for an in-person hearing or a hearing by written declaration.
   (B)   If an in-person hearing is requested, the City shall set the date and
time for the administrative hearing before an assigned neutral hearing officer.
The responsible party requesting the in-person hearing shall be served written
notice of the time and place set for the administrative hearing and the
assigned hearing officer at least ten (10) days prior to the date of the
administrative hearing.
   (C)   If a hearing by written declaration is requested, then the written
declaration(s) submitted by the responsible party must be made under penalty of
perjury and attached to the hearing request form upon submission to the office
of the city manager to be provided to an assigned neutral hearing officer. The
written declarations must relate to the validity of the violations found in the
administrative citation and must attach all evidence the responsible party
wishes the hearing officer to consider. The written declarations may not be
augmented or supplemented unless permission to do so is obtained from the
hearing officer prior to her or her issuance of a decision.
   (D)   The enforcement officer and/or relevant city departments may submit a
written report concerning the validity of the violations found in the
administrative citation to the hearing officer for consideration. If an in-
person hearing is requested, then the report must be submitted to the hearing
officer three business days in advance of the in-person hearing and served upon
the hearing officer and responsible party who sought the appeal. If a hearing
by written declaration is requested, then the report may be submitted to the
hearing officer within thirty (30) days of the hearing request and served upon
the hearing officer and responsible party who sought the appeal.
   (E)   Failure by any responsible party to timely and properly appeal an
administrative citation as provided in this section shall constitute an
admission by the responsible party to the existence of the cited violations, an
admission by the responsible party to that party's liability for the cited
violations, a waiver of the responsible party's right to contest the
administrative citation, and a failure by the responsible party to exhaust that
party's administrative remedies. The administrative citation along with any
imposed fines shall be deemed final if no timely or proper appeal is made, and
any such imposed fines shall be immediately payable.
   (F)   If a responsible party to which an administrative citation is issued
fails to timely and properly appeal an administrative citation in accordance
with this section, the City may withhold permits, licenses, and other approvals
related to the property upon which a violation of this code exists until the
cited violations are cured and any outstanding balance for administrative fines
or other amounts owing related to that property are paid in full.
   (G)   Upon the timely and proper appeal of an administrative citation, the
administrative fines assessed in connection with that administrative citation
shall be stayed pending the decision on the appeal. (Ord. 852-23, 7-18-2023)
1-3-9: ADMINISTRATIVE HEARING PROCEDURES:
Administrative hearings shall follow the procedures set forth below:
   (A)   An in-person hearing before a hearing officer shall be set for a date
that is not less than twenty (20) days and not more than forty five (45) days
from the date that a timely and proper appeal is submitted in accordance with
the provisions of this section. This time frame may be extended by necessity by
the City or the hearing officer or by stipulation of the parties. Failure to
hold the hearing within this time frame shall not invalidate the administrative
citation, shall not preclude proceeding with the hearing at a later date, and
shall not invalidate the hearing officer's decision.
   (B)   If the responsible party requesting the in-person hearing fails to
attend the scheduled hearing, it shall constitute an admission by the
responsible party to the existence of the cited violations, an admission by the
responsible party to that party's liability for the cited violations, a waiver
of the responsible party's right to contest the administrative citation, and a
failure by the responsible party to exhaust that party's administrative
remedies. The administrative citation along with any imposed fines shall be
deemed final in such case and any such imposed fines shall be immediately
payable.
   (C)   If an in-person hearing is requested, the hearing officer may continue
the hearing and/or request additional briefing or evidence from the enforcement
officer or relevant city department or the responsible party that requested the
hearing prior to issuing a decision. The hearing officer shall issue a decision
within thirty (30) days from the date all necessary briefing and evidence is
obtained. Failure by the hearing officer to strictly comply with this provision
shall not invalidate the administrative citation nor the hearing officer's
decision.
   (D)   If a hearing by written declaration is requested, the hearing officer
shall review the responsible party's written declaration(s) and the enforcement
officer's and/or relevant city departments' report(s) within thirty (30) days
of receipt. Within those thirty (30) days, the hearing officer may request
additional briefing or evidence from the responsible party and the enforcement
officer and/or relevant city departments as necessary to render a decision. The
hearing officer shall issue and serve a decision within thirty (30) days from
the date all necessary briefing and evidence is obtained. Failure by the
hearing officer to strictly comply with this provision shall not invalidate the
administrative citation or the hearing officer's decision.
   (E)   Administrative hearings are informal, and formal rules of evidence and
discovery shall not apply. Each party shall have the opportunity to present
evidence in support of that party's case and the cross examination of witnesses
is only required where the witnesses are the main evidence in the matter or the
only evidence to be used by either party in the administrative hearing. The
City bears the burden of proof at an administrative hearing to establish a
violation of the contested codes by a preponderance of the evidence. The
administrative citation, and any additional reports submitted by the
enforcement officer and/or relevant city departments shall constitute prima
facie evidence of the facts contained in those documents. The City may issue
subpoenas requiring attendance of witnesses or production of books or other
documents for evidence or testimony at the administrative hearing in accordance
with Government Code section 37104, et seq. (Ord. 852-23, 7-18-2023)
1-3-10: PROCEDURES FOR SELECTION OF HEARING OFFICER FOR ADMINISTRATIVE HEARING;
DECISION:
Procedures relating to hearing officers and decisions are set forth below:
   (A)   The city manager or his or her designee shall establish procedures for
the selection of a hearing officer in accordance with this section. A hearing
officer shall be a neutral third-party contracted by the City and selected in a
manner that avoids the potential for any bias against any parties to the
hearing. The hearing officer's compensation and costs shall be paid by the
City. The hearing officer's compensation and/or employment shall not be
directly or indirectly conditioned upon the outcome of the hearing.
   (B)   Not later than thirty (30) days after the date the administrative
hearing concludes, or in the case of a hearing by written declaration, not
later than thirty (30) days after all necessary briefing and evidence is
received, the hearing officer shall issue a written decision to uphold, modify,
or dismiss the contested administrative citation. Failure by the hearing
officer to strictly comply with this provision shall not invalidate the
administrative citation or the decision.
   (C)   The decision shall set forth the facts relied on, the legal standards,
and the reasons for the decision along with notice of the right to appeal and
shall be served on the appealing responsible party and the enforcement officer.
The decision shall be final. Failure to receive the decision shall not
invalidate the administrative citation or the decision.
   (D)   All upheld and awarded administrative fines shall be paid by the
responsible parties to the City within twenty (20) days from the date the
decision is served. (Ord. 852-23, 7-18-2023)
1-3-11: APPEAL TO SUPERIOR COURT:
   (A)   Notwithstanding section 1094.5 or 1094.6 of the Code of Civil
Procedure, within twenty (20) days after service of the decision, any party to
the hearing may seek review of the decision by filing an appeal with the
Superior Court of the State of California for the County of Kern, in accordance
with Government Code section 53069.4, subdivision (d). That party shall serve
upon the city clerk, either in person or by first-class mail, a copy of the
notice of appeal. If a party fails to timely file a notice of appeal, the
hearing officer's decision shall be final and that party's right to appeal
shall be deemed waived and terminated.
   (B)   Once the appeal period has expired, the City may file an action in the
Superior Court of the State of California for the County of Kern to have the
Decision confirmed as a judgment. (Ord. 852-23, 7-18-2023)
CHAPTER 4
PENALTY
   (Rep. by Ord. 603, 10-19-1993)
CHAPTER 5
COUNCIL MEETINGS
SECTION:
1-5-1: Regular Meetings
1-5-2: Special Meetings
1-5-3: Adoption Of Rules Of Procedure
1-5-1: REGULAR MEETINGS:
The council shall meet regularly the first and third Tuesday of every month
beginning January 1, 2013, at the hour of six o'clock (6:00) P.M. at city hall,
209 E. Kern Street, Taft, California, except when such Tuesday is a legal
holiday and except as the council may, from time to time by resolution, change
the number and date of such regular meetings to be held during any specified
period of time. (Ord. 793-12, 10-16-2012)
1-5-2: SPECIAL MEETINGS:
Special meetings may be called by the chairman of the council at any time or by
written request from four (4) council members. Such special meetings shall be
posted no less than twenty four (24) hours prior to the special meeting and
council shall receive written notice of said meeting by the clerk. (Ord. 793-
12, 10-16-2012)
1-5-3: ADOPTION OF RULES OF PROCEDURE:
Rules of procedure shall be adopted by resolution for the purpose of promoting
uniformity, clarity, efficiency and orderly conduct of the city council
meetings so that the council may adequately and properly perform its duty as
legislators and representatives of the residents of the city and so that those
desiring to address their legislators may do so in an orderly, efficient
manner. Except as provided in the resolution adopting the rules of procedure,
statutory law or constitutional requirements, "Rosenberg's Rules Of Order"
shall govern the conduct of city council meetings. (Ord. 793-12, 10-16-2012)
CHAPTER 6
MANAGER
SECTION:
1-6-1: Office Of The Manager Created
1-6-2: Eligibility
1-6-3: Bond
1-6-4: Absence
1-6-5: Compensation
1-6-6: Powers And Duties
1-6-7: Civil Service
1-6-8: Orders And Directions
1-6-9: Removal
1-6-10: Removal After Municipal Election
1-6-11: Manager Not In Civil Service
1-6-1: OFFICE OF THE MANAGER CREATED:
The office of Manager of the City is hereby created and established. The
Manager shall be appointed by the Council solely on the basis of his executive
and administrative qualifications and ability and shall hold office at and
during the pleasure of the Council.
The office of Engineer may be combined with the office of Manager at the
discretion of the Council. (Ord. 254 N.S., 2-2-1959)
1-6-2: ELIGIBILITY:
Residence in the City at the time of appointment, shall not be required as a
condition of appointment. However, residence must be established in the City
after six (6) months of employment. (Ord. 254 N.S., 2-2-1959)
1-6-3: BOND:
The Manager shall furnish a corporate surety bond to be approved by the Council
in such sum as may be determined by the Council and shall be conditioned on the
faithful performance of the duties imposed on the Manager as herein prescribed.
(Ord. 254 N.S., 2-2-1959)
1-6-4: ABSENCE:
In case of the absence or disability of the Manager, the Council may designate
some duly qualified person to perform the duties of the Manager during the
period of absence or disability of the Manager, subject, however to such person
furnishing a corporate surety bond conditioned on faithful performance of the
duties required to be performed as set forth in Section
1-6-3 herein. (Ord. 254 N.S., 2-2-1959)
1-6-5: COMPENSATION:
The Manager shall receive such compensation as the Council shall from time to
time determine and fix by Resolution, and the compensation shall be a proper
charge against such funds of the City that the Council shall designate. The
Manager shall be reimbursed for all sums necessarily incurred by him in the
performance of his duties or incurred when traveling on business pertaining to
the City under direction of the Council; reimbursement shall only be made,
however, when a verified itemized claim setting forth the sums expended for
which reimbursement is requested, has been presented to the Council, and by the
Council duly approved and allowed. (Ord. 254 N.S., 2-2-1959)
1-6-6: POWERS AND DUTIES:
The Manager shall be the administrative head of the City Government under the
direction and control of the Council, except as otherwise provided in this
Chapter. He shall be responsible for the efficient administration of all the
affairs of the City which are under his control. In addition to his general
powers as administrative head, and not as a limitation thereon, it shall be his
duty and he shall have the power:
   (A)   To see that all laws and provisions of this Code are duly enforced,
and that all franchises, permits and privileges granted by the City are
faithfully observed.
   (B)   To control, order and give directions to all heads of departments,
subordinate officers and employees of the City, except the Clerk, Treasurer,
and Attorney; and to transfer employees from one department to another; and to
consolidate or combine offices, positions, departments or units under his
direction; provided, however, that nothing herein contained shall be construed
to supersede the authority of the civil service board in the matter of
classification of city officers or employees. (Ord. 254 N.S., 2-2-1959)
   (C)   To appoint and remove any officers and employees of the city, except
the clerk, treasurer, and attorney, subject to the civil service regulations of
the city. (Ord. 387, 10-6-1975)
   (D)   To exercise control over all departments of the city government and
over all appointive officers and employees thereof, except the clerk,
treasurer, and attorney.
   (E)   To attend all meetings of the council unless excused therefrom by the
council, except when his removal is under consideration by the council.
   (F)   To recommend to the council for adoption such measures and ordinances
he deems necessary or expedient.
   (G)   To keep the council at all times fully advised as to the financial
conditions and needs of the city.
   (H)   To prepare and submit to the council the annual budget and report.
   (I)   To purchase all supplies for all the departments or divisions of the
city. No expenditure shall be submitted or recommended to the council, except
on report or approval of the manager.
   (J)   To make investigations into the affairs of the city, and any
department or division thereof, and any contract, or the proper performance of
any obligations running to the city.
   (K)   To investigate all complaints in relation to matters concerning the
administration of the city government and in regard to the service maintained
by public utilities in the city, and to see that all franchises, permits and
privileges granted by the city are faithfully performed and observed.
   (L)   To exercise general supervision over all public buildings, public
parks and other public property which are under the control and jurisdiction of
the council and not specifically delegated to a particular board or officer.
   (M)   To devote his entire time to the duties of his office and the
interests of the city.
   (N)   To provide leadership for civic movements designed to benefit the
residents of the city, when so authorized by the council.
   (O)   To perform such other duties and exercise such other powers as may be
delegated to him from time to time by ordinance or resolution of the council.
(Ord. 254 N.S., 2-2-1959)
1-6-7: CIVIL SERVICE:
The exercise of the powers and duties of the manager herein and the provisions
of this chapter shall be subject to the provisions of chapter 10 of this title
governing the classification of employees, the appointment, transfer,
promotion, demotion, removal, suspension, dismissal and reinstatement of such
employees and the procedures outlined therein governing the same. (Ord. 341,
12-2-1968)
1-6-8: ORDERS AND DIRECTIONS:
The council and its members shall deal with the administrative services of the
city only through the manager, except for the purpose of inquiry, and neither
the council nor any members thereof shall give orders to any subordinates of
the manager. (Ord. 254 N.S., 2-2-1959)
1-6-9: REMOVAL:
The removal of the manager shall be only a majority vote of the whole council;
subject, however that the provisions in the next succeeding section. In case of
his intended removal by the council, the manager shall be furnished with a
written notice stating the council's intention to remove him and the reason
therefor, at least thirty (30) days before the effective date of his removal.
After furnishing the manager with written notice of intended removal, the
council may suspend him from duty, but his compensation shall continue until
his removal by resolution of the council.
In removing the manager the council shall use its uncontrolled discretion and
its action shall be final, and shall not depend upon any particular showing or
degree of proof. (Ord. 254 N.S., 2-2-1959)
1-6-10: REMOVAL AFTER MUNICIPAL ELECTION:
Notwithstanding the provisions of this chapter hereinbefore enumerated, the
manager shall not be removed from office during or within a period of ninety
(90) days next succeeding any general municipal election held in the city at
which said election a member of the council is elected; the purpose of this
provision is to allow any newly elected member of the council or a reorganized
council to observe the actions and ability of the manager in the performance of
the powers and duties of his office. After the expiration of the ninety (90)
days aforementioned, the provisions of section 9 hereof as to the removal of
the manager shall apply and be effective. (Ord. 254 N.S., 2-2-1959)
1-6-11: MANAGER NOT IN CIVIL SERVICE:
The office of manager is hereby specifically excluded from the civil service or
personnel system of the city, and the manager shall not be entitled to the
benefits, advantages or protection of the civil service or personnel system of
the city, he shall not be subject to the procedures outlined or prevailing in
the system 1 . (Ord. 254 N.S., 2-2-1959)
 
Notes
1 1. For statute authority see Gov. C., §§ 34850-34859.
CHAPTER 7
EMPLOYEES
SECTION:
1-7-1: Clerk's Fee; Copies (Rep. by Ord. 611, 4-19-1994)
1-7-2: Overtime (Rep. by Ord. 611, 4-19-1994)
1-7-3: Training Of Law Enforcement Officers
1-7-4: Salaries
1-7-5: Bonds
1-7-1: CLERK'S FEE; COPIES:
(Rep. by Ord. 611, 4-19-1994)
1-7-2: OVERTIME:
(Rep. by Ord. 611, 4-19-1994)
1-7-3: TRAINING OF LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICERS:
The council hereby declares that it desires to qualify to receive aid from the
state of California, under the provisions of chapter 1 of title 4, part 4 of
the California Penal Code.
Pursuant to section 13522 of said chapter 1, the city, while receiving aid from
the state pursuant to said chapter 1, hereby declares it will adhere to and be
bound by the standards for recruitment and training established by the
California commission on peace officer standards and training.
All peace officers and dispatchers of the city shall be and they are hereby
required to comply with the training standards.
Pursuant to section 13510(c), chapter 1, the Taft police department will adhere
to standards for recruitment and training established by the California
commission on peace officer standards and training (POST).
Pursuant to section 13512, chapter 1, the commission and its representatives
may make such inquiries as deemed appropriate by the commission to ascertain
that the Taft police department's public safety dispatcher personnel adhere to
standards for selection and training established by the commission on peace
officer standards and training. (Ord. 565, 1-17-1989)
1-7-4: SALARIES:
The compensation of the city officers shall hereafter be the following monthly
sums:
   City council   $300.00 monthly
   City treasurer   300.00 monthly
   City clerk   Fixed by resolution
   City attorney    Fixed by resolution
At the sole discretion of any member of the city council, the sums enumerated
herein as "salary" may be waived in lieu of payment of an identical sum to a
charitable organization or the city of Taft as designated by the affected
member. (Ord. 786-11, 5-17-2011)
All other city employees shall be paid such compensation as may hereafter be
fixed by resolution of the council 1 . (Ord. 437, 7-15-1981)
 
Notes
1 1. Gov.C. §§ 36506, 36514 and 36517.
1-7-5: BONDS:
The following officers and employees of the city shall furnish bonds given by a
surety company, to be approved by the council in favor of the city of Taft,
conditioned for the faithful performance of the respective duties of such
officers and employees, including their respective ex officio offices now or
any time hereafter required by law, in amounts as follows 2 :
   City manager   $ 25,000.00
   City treasurer   100,000.00
   City finance director   100,000.00
(Ord. 713-04, 6-1-2004)
 
Notes
2 2. Gov.C. §§ 36518 – 36521, also § 1450 et seq.
CHAPTER 8
CORPORATE SEAL
SECTION:
1-8-1: Adoption Of Official Seal
1-8-1: ADOPTION OF OFFICIAL SEAL:
   (A)   City Seal: The city hereby adopts as its common seal, described as
follows: The seal shall be circular in shape having an outer diameter of one
and seven-eighths inches (17/8"), with the words, "City of Taft Incorporated
Nov. 7, 1910" inscribed around its outer margin. Within the inner circle shall
be inscribed in suitable type the words "Taft The Center of Midway Largest
Oilfield in the World" and "In God We Trust". In the center of the seal shall
be the representation of an oil derrick. The seal shall appear as set forth and
depicted below:
   (B)   Use Of Seal: It shall be unlawful and a misdemeanor for any person to
make or use the seal of the city of Taft, or reproduction thereof, for any
purpose other than for the official business of the city of Taft, its council,
officers or departments, except upon approval of the city council by ordinance
or resolution.
   (C)   Imitation Of Seal: No person shall place any imitation of the city
seal on any written or printed material that is designed, calculated, intended
or likely to confuse, deceive or mislead the public or cause the reader of such
written or printed material to believe it to be an official city publication,
and no person shall circulate or distribute any such written or printed
material in the city of Taft. Any person violating this provision shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor.
   (D)   Custodian Of Seal: The city clerk of the city of Taft shall be the
official custodian of the official seal of the city. (Ord. 725-06, 8-15-2006)
CHAPTER 9
PURCHASING SYSTEM
SECTION:
1-9-1: Adoption Of Purchasing System
1-9-2: Purchasing Officer
1-9-3: Centralized Purchasing
1-9-4: Encumbrance Of Funds
1-9-5: Purchase Orders
1-9-6: Bidding Required
1-9-7: Formal Bidding Procedure
1-9-8: Exemption From Bidding
1-9-9: Open Market Procedure
1-9-10: Threshold Level For Bidding
1-9-11: Inspection And Testing
1-9-12: Preference To Local Vendors
1-9-13: Preference For Recycled Content
1-9-14: Surplus Supplies And Equipment
1-9-15: Refunds
1-9-1: ADOPTION OF PURCHASING SYSTEM:
In order to clearly define authority for the purchase of required goods and
services, to establish procedures to purchase such goods and services at the
lowest possible cost to the city; and to exercise positive financial control
over the purchasing function, the city council hereby establishes a city
purchasing system pursuant to section 54203, California Government Code. (Ord.
634-95, 6-20-1995)
1-9-2: PURCHASING OFFICER:
There is hereby created the position of purchasing officer. The city manager
shall serve as purchasing officer and as head of the purchasing department. The
city manager may delegate these duties to a purchasing officer appointed by the
city manager or, in the alternative, the duties of the purchasing officer may
be combined with those of any other office or position under direction of the
city manager. The purchasing officer shall:
   (A)   Purchase or contract for goods and services required by any department
of the city in accordance with purchasing procedures prescribed by this chapter
and in accordance with such other rules and regulations as may be prescribed by
the city council or by the city manager or through administrative policies and
procedures adopted by the purchasing officer for the internal management and
operation of his department.
   (B)   Negotiate and recommend execution of contracts for the purchase of
goods and services.
   (C)   Act to procure for the city the necessary quality and quantity of
goods and services at least expense to the city.
   (D)   Discourage uniform bidding and attempt to obtain as full and open a
competition as is economically possible on all orders.
   (E)   Keep informed of current developments in the areas of purchasing,
pricing, market conditions and new products.
   (F)   Prescribe and maintain administrative policies and procedures as may
be reasonably necessary to the operation of this chapter and to rules and
regulations promulgated in accordance herewith.
   (G)   Supervise the inspection of goods and services purchased to ensure
conformance with plans and/or specifications.
   (H)   Initiate transfer of surplus and/or unused goods between departments
as needed.
   (I)   Initiate sale and/or disposal of surplus, unused, unneeded and/or
obsolete goods which cannot be used by any department and which have become
unsuitable for city use. (Ord. 634-95, 6-20-1995)
   (J)   In all cases in which a contract for goods or services is required,
the process shall be as follows:
      1.   Direction by city council to city manager regarding the purchase or
contract for goods or services required by the city;
      2.   Negotiation by city manager of purchase or contract for goods or
services required by the city consistent with city council direction;
      3.   Review of proposed purchase agreement or contract by city attorney;
      4.   Approval of proposed purchase or contract by ordinance or resolution
of the council;
      5.   Execution of purchase agreement or contract by mayor, unless
execution by another city official is authorized by council. (Ord. 780-10, 3-2-
2010)
1-9-3: CENTRALIZED PURCHASING:
   (A)   There is hereby created a centralized purchasing function in which is
vested the authority to purchase all goods and services required by the city.
   (B)   The purchasing officer may authorize any department to purchase or
contract for specialized goods and/or services independent of the centralized
purchasing function. All such authorizations shall require that purchases or
contracts be made in accordance with provisions of this Chapter. (Ord. 634-95,
6-20-1995)
1-9-4: ENCUMBRANCE OF FUNDS:
Except as otherwise provided, the Purchasing Officer or his designee shall not
issue any order or any purchase order for goods or services unless there exists
an unencumbered appropriation duly authorized for expenditure in the fund
account against which the purchase is to be charged. (Ord. 634-95, 6-20-1995)
1-9-5: PURCHASE ORDERS:
Except as otherwise provided in this Chapter, purchase orders or a formal
written contract for the purchase of goods or services may only be issued by
the Purchasing Officer. (Ord. 634-95, 6-20-1995)
1-9-6: BIDDING REQUIRED:
Except as otherwise provided in this Chapter, the purchase of goods and
services shall be consistent with the procedures contained in this Chapter in
the rules and regulations promulgated pursuant hereto. (Ord. 634-95, 6-20-1995)
1-9-7: FORMAL BIDDING PROCEDURE:
Except as provided herein, purchases and contracts for goods and services, and
for the sale of personal property with an estimated value greater than the
threshold level for formal bid requirements shall be by written contract
pursuant to the procedure prescribed in this Section:
   (A)   Notice Inviting Bids: Notice inviting bids shall include a general
description of the articles to be purchased or sold, shall state where bid
documents, including plans and specifications, if any, may be secured and the
time, date and place for opening bids.
   (B)   Published Notice: Notice inviting bids shall be published at least ten
(10) days before the scheduled opening of bids. Notice shall be published at
least once in a newspaper of general circulation in the greater Taft area. In
the event there is no potential bidder for required supplies, service or
equipment within the area of circulation and no bidders were solicited, the
City Clerk shall cause the notice inviting bids to be published at least ten
(10) days before the scheduled opening of bids in a trade publication or other
publication likely to receive the attention of prospective bidders. It shall be
the responsibility of prospective bidders to be self-informed of such
publications and no other form of communication shall be deemed necessary to
inform prospective bidders of the notice.
   (C)   Bid Bond: When deemed necessary by the Purchasing Officer, a bid bond
may be prescribed in the public notices inviting bids. Bidders shall be
entitled to return of bid security; provided, that a successful bidder shall
forfeit his bid security upon refusal or failure to execute the contract within
ten (10) days after the notice of award of contract has been mailed, unless the
City is responsible for the delay. The City Council may, on refusal or failure
of the successful bidder to execute the contract, award it to the next lowest
responsible bidder. If the City Council awards the contract to the next lowest
bidder, the amount of the lowest bidder's security shall be applied by the City
to the difference between the low bid and the next lowest bid and the surplus,
if any, shall be returned to the lowest bidder. Any subsequent refusals or
failures to execute the contract under the terms shall continue in like fashion
as the first lowest bidder and the second lowest bidder.
   (D)   Business License Required: All bidders shall be required to have a
business license prior to award of bid.
   (E)   Performance, Labor, Material And Other Bonds: The City Council shall
have authority to require performance, labor, material and other bonds before
entering a contract in such amount as they shall find reasonably necessary to
protect the best interests of the City. If the City Council requires such a
bond, the form and amount of the bond shall be described in the notice inviting
bids. Such a bond in said amount shall be furnished by a surety authorized to
do a surety business in the State or in other such manner as may be allowed by
law.
   (F)   Insurance Requirements: The City Council shall have authority to
require sufficient evidence of insurance before entering a contract in such
amount as they shall find reasonably necessary to protect the interests of the
City. If the City Council requires such insurance, the form and amount of the
insurance shall be described in the notice inviting bids.
   (G)   Certification Requirements: The City Council shall have authority to
require sufficient evidence of certification before entering a contract in such
amount as they shall find reasonably necessary to protect the best interests of
the City. If the City Council requires such certification, the same shall be
described in the notice inviting bids.
   (H)   Submission Of Bids: Bids shall be submitted in sealed packages and: 1)
addressed to the office specified in the solicitation, 2) showing the date and
time specified for receipt, and 3) the solicitation number, name and address of
the bidder. Bids must be submitted in sufficient time so that they will be
delivered to the bid opening room prior to the scheduled time of bid opening.
The only acceptable evidence establishing the time of receipt at the specified
office shall be the time/date stamp or other documentary evidence of receipt
maintained by such an office.
   (I)   Submission Of Bid Modifications Or Withdrawals: Bid modifications or
withdrawals must be submitted in like manner as the submission of bid. The bid
may be withdrawn or modified in writing or in person by a bidder or its
authorized representative if, before the scheduled bid opening, the identity of
the requester is established and if upon request for withdrawal the same signs
a receipt for the bid. A telephone request for any submittal or its
modification or withdrawal is strictly prohibited. A facsimile request for any
withdrawal must be in like form as described herein and in the solicitation,
the bidder bears the sole responsibility for its delivery to the bid opening
room before the scheduled time of bid opening and for the clarity thereof.
Final determination shall be the City's.
   (J)   Bid Opening Procedures: Unless otherwise provided in the notice
inviting bids, bids shall be opened in the Council Chambers of the City located
at 209 E. Kern Street, Taft, CA 93268. Bid openings shall be open to the
public. The department head or a representative most closely affected by the
bid shall be present at the bid opening. The bid opening officer or a
representative shall decide when the time set for opening bids has arrived and
shall inform those present of that decision. The officer shall then: 1)
personally and publicly open all bids which were received prior to the
scheduled time of bid opening, 2) if practical, read the bids aloud to the
persons present, and 3) have the bids recorded. Following the bid opening, the
department head or representative shall prepare a tabulation of bids and submit
the same to the City Council along with an appropriate recommendation as to
disposition of bids. A tabulation of all bids received shall be open for public
inspection during regular business hours for a period of not less than thirty
(30) calendar days after the bid opening.
   (K)   Rejection Of Bids: With discretion, the Purchasing Officer may
recommend to the City Manager rejection of any and all bids by the City Council
and readvertise for bid.
   (L)   Award Of Contracts: With discretion, the Purchasing Officer may
recommend to the City Manager contracts to be awarded by the City Council to
the lowest responsive and responsible bidder except as otherwise provided in
this Chapter.
   (M)   Tie Bids: If two (2) or more bids received are for the same total
amount or unit price, quality and service being equal, and if the public
interest will not permit the delay of readvertising for bids, the City Council
may accept the one they choose or accept the lowest bid made by negotiation
prior to the time of award.
   (N)   No Bids: If either no bids are received or none meet the
specifications, the Purchasing Officer may proceed to have the services
performed or the supplies purchased without further competitive bidding.
   (O)   Waiver Of Requirements: The Purchasing Officer may waive any
informalities or minor irregularities in the bids which are deemed to have no
effect upon the essential requirements of the solicitation.
Where it is deemed to be in the best interests of the City, the City Council,
upon motion duly carried, may waive the procedures required in this Section,
and may authorize the Purchasing Officer to purchase supplies, equipment and
contract services pursuant to the procedure prescribed in Section
1-9-9 of this Chapter. (Ord. 634-95, 6-20-1995)
1-9-8: EXEMPTION FROM BIDDING:
The following purchases, contracts or obligations shall, at the Purchasing
Officer's discretion, be exempt from the bidding requirements of this Chapter:
   (A)   Emergency Purchases:
      1.   Purchases of goods and/or services made by any employee authorized
by the Purchasing Officer or by the department head in any emergency are
exempt.
      2.   In emergency situations, the Purchasing Officer has authorization to
expend City funds without limitation by way of amount and without the
requirement for either formal bids or quotations. The Purchasing officer has
authorization to conclude that an emergency exists without further declaration
by the city council. Expenditures made during an emergency must be reported to
the city council at the next regular meeting if such expenditure would have
otherwise required authorization by the city council.
      3.   An "emergency" as used in this section exists during the following
types of conditions: if needed goods and/or services would cause undue delay
for the preservation of life or property or to prevent the breakdown of a city
service at substantial expense to the city. All such emergency purchases
secured under this section shall be approved or confirmed by the purchasing
officer or, upon his refusal to do so, by the city council by a majority vote
of the entire council, and unless so approved, the cost thereof shall not
constitute a legal charge against the city, but shall constitute a charge
against the person making the purchase. No purchase or contractual service
shall be approved or confirmed by the purchasing officer or by the city council
under this section, except by an express finding by same that an emergency did
actually exist at the time of the emergency purchase.
   (B)   Professional Services Or Specialized Services: Service of a
professional nature or specialized services including, but not limited to,
services rendered by architects, attorneys, accountants, auditors, engineers
and other professional consultants are exempt provided, however, that the city
council may provide for the procurement of such services by resolution.
   (C)   Cooperative Agreements: Purchases made at contract prices awarded by
federal or state governments or by any political subdivision thereof or
pursuant to a cooperative purchasing agreement are exempt.
   (D)   Petty Cash Funds: Purchases made from petty cash funds as authorized
by the city manager or a designated representative thereof are exempt.
   (E)   Exclusive Item: In those instances in which the city's requirements
can be met solely by a single patented article or process including, but not
limited to, upgrades, alterations, additions, deletions to an existing
proprietary article or process, or in which a warranty, guarantee or other
assurances could be voided.
   (F)   City Employees: Any work performed by the city with its own employees.
Such work may be subject to provisions of section 20161, California Public
Contracts Code.
   (G)   Prison Contracts: Contracts for the purchase of goods from the prison
industry authority or any other entity offering for sale items made by and
through prison inmate labor are exempt.
   (H)   Public Project Supplies And Materials: In accordance with provisions
of section 20161, California Public Contracts Code, purchase of supplies and
materials for public projects in excess of prescribed dollar limits shall be by
written contract with the lowest responsible bidder. A "public project" is
defined as:
      1.   A project for the erection, improvement, painting or repair of
public buildings and works;
      2.   Work in or about streams, bays, waterfronts, embankments, or other
work for protection against overflow;
      3.   Street or sewer work, except maintenance or repair; or
      4.   Furnishing supplies or materials for any such project including
maintenance or repairs of streets and sewers.
   (I)   Open Market Purchases: "Open market purchases" are purchases which are
under the threshold level of formal bidding requirements. In such instances,
the purchasing officer may solicit as many quotations as he deems to be in the
best interest of the city. (Ord. 634-95, 6-20-1995)
1-9-9: OPEN MARKET PROCEDURE:
Purchase of goods and services and sale of personal property of an estimated
value less than the threshold level of the formal bid may be made by the
purchasing officer without observing the procedures prescribed by section
1-9-7 of this chapter. (Ord. 634-95, 6-20-1995)
   (A)   Minimum Number Of Quotations: Open market purchases shall, whenever
possible and practical, be based on at least three (3) quotations, at least one
of which shall be a local vendor if available, and at least one of which shall
be a vendor located outside the greater Taft area. Open market purchases shall
be awarded to the lowest responsive and responsible supplier. (Ord. 703-03, 5-
20-2003)
   (B)   Solicitation Of Quotations: The purchasing officer shall solicit
quotations by written, fax, or other such standards of business communications
to selected prospective vendors as he may deem appropriate. Quotations shall be
submitted to the purchasing officer who shall keep a record of all quotations
submitted in competition thereon. Such records shall be open to public
inspection during business hours. Records of such open market orders or
purchases may be disposed of by the purchasing officer in the manner provided
by law. (Ord. 634-95, 6-20-1995)
1-9-10: THRESHOLD LEVEL FOR BIDDING:
Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, all thresholds for open market
and formal bid procedures for the purchase of goods and services and for the
sale of personal property shall be in accordance with California law governing
general law cities and with administrative policies and procedures of the city.
(Ord. 634-95, 6-20-1995)
1-9-11: INSPECTION AND TESTING:
The city department receiving or using goods and/or services purchased pursuant
to this chapter shall inspect all goods delivered and all services performed to
ascertain their conformity with the plans and/or specifications set forth in
the contract. All deficiencies in such goods or services shall be forthwith
reported to the purchasing officer. The city retains the right to require
chemical and physical tests of material samples submitted with bids and samples
of goods delivered to ascertain their quality and conformance to specifications
1 . (Ord. 634-95, 6-20-1995)
 
Notes
1 1. Gov.C. § 54201 et seq.
1-9-12: PREFERENCE TO LOCAL VENDORS:
   (A)   Grant Of Bid Preference: In awarding bids pursuant to section
1-9-7 of this chapter, the city council may, at its discretion, grant qualified
local vendors a bidding preference of five percent (5%). Such preference,
however, shall not exceed the aggregate sum of one thousand dollars ($1,000.00)
for any contract awarded under this chapter.
   (B)   Open Market Bid Preference: In purchasing goods and services pursuant
to section
1-9-9 of this chapter, the purchasing officer may grant qualified local vendors
a preference of five percent (5%). Such preference, however, shall not exceed
the aggregate sum of five hundred dollars ($500.00) for any responsive and
responsible supplier.
   (C)   Definition: For purposes of this section, a "local vendor" shall be
defined as any individual, partnership or corporation which regularly maintains
a place of business and an inventory of merchandise for sale within the
corporate limit of the city. (Ord. 703-03, 5-20-2003)
1-9-13: PREFERENCE FOR RECYCLED CONTENT:
   (A)   Bidding Preference: In awarding bids pursuant to Section
1-9-7 of this chapter, the purchasing officer may, at his discretion, grant a
bidding preference in accordance with administrative policy and procedure for
any contract awarded under this chapter for items which are either recycled,
recyclable, reusable or provide waste minimization. Such preference shall be in
accordance with performance, price, delivery, and other requirements and are
deemed equivalent or acceptable by the purchasing officer.
   (B)   Environmentally Preferable Practices: The city of Taft will act to
make resource conservation an integral part of its waste reduction and
recycling programs. The practice of discarding materials used in the city
facilities is wasteful of natural resources, energy, and money.
      1.   The city will integrate the concept of resource conservation,
including waste reduction and recycling, into its environmental programs.
      2.   The city will decrease the amount of waste of consumable materials
by:
         (a)   Reducing the consumption of consumable material wherever
possible.
         (b)   Fully utilizing all material prior to disposal.
         (c)   Minimizing the use of nonbiodegradable products wherever
possible.
      3.   The City will cooperate with, and participate in, recycling efforts
being made by the City and County. As systems for recovering waste and
recycling develop within the City limits, the City will participate by
appropriately separating and allowing recovery of recyclable waste products.
      4.   All vendors providing paper products and printing and writing paper
shall:
         (a)   Provide recycled-content paper products and recycled-content
printing and writing paper that consists of at least 30 percent, by fiber
weight, postconsumer fiber, if fitness and quality are equal, and available at
equal or lesser price.
         (b)   Provide paper products and printing and writing paper that meet
Federal Trade Commission recyclability standard as defined in 16 Code of
Federal Regulations (CFR) Section 260.12.
         (c)   Certify in writing, under penalty of perjury, the minimum
percentage of postconsumer material in the paper products and printing and
writing paper offered or sold to the City. This certification requirement may
be waived if the percentage of postconsumer material in the paper products,
printing and writing paper, or both can be verified by a product label,
catalog, invoice, or a manufacturer or vendor internet website.
         (d)   Certify in writing, on invoices or receipts provided, that the
paper products and printing and writing paper offered or sold to the City is
eligible to be labeled with an unqualified recyclable label as defined in 16
Code of Federal Regulations (CFR) Section 260.12.
         (e)   Provide records to the City’s recovered organic waste product
procurement recordkeeping designee of all paper products and printing and
writing paper purchases within thirty (30) days of the purchase (both recycled-
content and non-recycled content, if any is purchased) made by any division or
department or employee of the City. Records should include a copy (electronic
or paper) of the invoice or other documentation of purchase, written
certifications as required in Sections
1-9-13(B)3. and 13(B)4. for recycled-content purchases, purchaser name,
quantity purchased, date purchased, and recycled content (including products
that contain none), and if non-recycled content paper products are provided,
include a description of why recycled-content paper products were not provided.
   (C)   Representatives of the City will actively advocate, where appropriate,
for resource conservation practices to be adopted at the local, regional, and
national levels. (Ord. 766-08, 5-6-2008; amd. Ord. 837-20, 8-18-2020)
1-9-14: SURPLUS SUPPLIES AND EQUIPMENT:
   (A)   All departments shall submit reports identifying all supplies and
equipment which are no longer used or which have become obsolete or worn out
beyond reasonable repair at such time and in such manner as prescribed by the
purchasing officer. The purchasing officer shall have the authority to sell
such supplies and equipment at fair market value or at public auction or to
exchange them for, or as a trade-in on, new supplies or equipment. Should
surplus supplies and/or equipment have negligible market value, the purchasing
officer may sell such items for salvage value or may donate, recycle or
otherwise dispose of same.
   (B)   The amount received for any property sold pursuant to this chapter
shall be deposited in the appropriate fund as determined by the finance
department. (Ord. 634-95, 6-20-1995)
1-9-15: REFUNDS:
The purchasing officer or the head of the finance department, with approval of
the city manager, may authorize refunds for business licenses, building
permits, zoning permits, sewer service fees, refuse disposal fees and other
amounts collected by the city in error. All such refunds shall be granted in
accordance with applicable policies and procedures of the city, if any. (Ord.
634-95, 6-20-1995)
CHAPTER 10
PERSONNEL SYSTEM
SECTION:
1-10-1: Personnel System
1-10-2: Classified Service
1-10-3: Police And Fire Chief
1-10-4: Administration Of Personnel System
1-10-5: Adoption Of Rules And Regulations
1-10-6: Designation Of Management/Supervisory/Confidential Employees
1-10-1: PERSONNEL SYSTEM:
The city shall maintain a personnel system governing the employees of the city,
and the city council shall adopt rules and regulations for the administration
of such system. (Ord. 405, 2-21-1978)
1-10-2: CLASSIFIED SERVICE:
The provisions of this chapter shall apply to all offices, positions, and
employment in the service of the city except the following unclassified
positions:
   (A)   Elective offices.
   (B)   Positions on appointive boards, commissions, and committees.
   (C)   Persons employed under contract to supply expert professional or
technical services for a definite period of time.
   (D)   Volunteer personnel, such as volunteer firemen, who receive no regular
compensation from the city. (Ord. 405, 2-21-1978)
   (E)   City attorney and city manager. (Ord. 649-96, 11-19-1996)
   (F)   Part time, per diem, hourly, and seasonal employees, reserve firemen
and reserve policemen. (Ord. 405, 2-21-1978)
   (G)   Police chief, fire chief, director of public works, director of
general services, director of building/planning, municipal records
administrator, and assistant city manager; provided however that employees
currently employed in these permanent positions as classified employees, shall
remain so classified until such time as their employment is terminated. All
positions named in this subsection shall remain subordinate to and subject to
the appointing authority of the city manager subject to a contractual
arrangement signed by the city manager. (Ord. 649-96, 11-19-1996)
1-10-3: POLICE AND FIRE CHIEF:
The positions of police chief and fire chief are established as the chief
executive officers of each of said departments. The police chief and fire chief
shall be employees of the city and shall be appointed by the city manager. Any
reference to the public safety director in any provision of this code, or in
any ordinance, rule, regulation or other provision shall be construed and shall
mean that the police functions or fire functions to which reference is made
shall be exercised by the police chief or fire chief, as appropriate. (Ord.
515, 2-4-1986)
1-10-4: ADMINISTRATION OF PERSONNEL SYSTEM:
The city manager shall administer the personnel system of the city, and shall
be the custodian of all personnel records. He/she shall establish and maintain
a roster of the officers and employees in the classified service, shall
maintain records of length of service, duties and other information necessary
to properly administer the personnel system. The city manager shall be the
official upon whom all notices, requests for hearing, complaints and other
documents relating to the personnel system shall be served, unless otherwise
specified in the rules and regulations.
In all cases in which employment or consulting contracts are at issue, the
process shall be as follows:
   (A)   Proposal to city council for employment or consulting contracts in
open session;
   (B)   Direction by city council to city manager in closed session to proceed
with such negotiations, which may include certain parameters;
   (C)   Negotiation by city manager of employment or consulting contracts
consistent with city council direction;
   (D)   Review of proposed employment or consulting contracts by city
attorney;
   (E)   Approval of proposed employment or consulting contracts by ordinance
or resolution of the council;
   (F)   Execution of proposed employment or consulting contracts by mayor,
unless otherwise authorized by council. (Ord. 781-10, 3-2-2010)
1-10-5: ADOPTION OF RULES AND REGULATIONS:
The city council shall adopt rules and regulations for the administration of
the personnel system, including provisions relating to a classification plan,
applications for employment, examinations, eligible lists, method of filling
vacancies, probation periods, personnel classification status, separation from
the system, disciplinary actions, compensation, attendance, leaves, grievances,
safety and health policies, training, reports and records, and all other terms,
conditions and matters relating to the personnel system. Such rules and
regulations shall be adopted by resolution of the city council. (Ord. 649-96,
11-19-1996)
1-10-6: DESIGNATION OF MANAGEMENT/SUPERVISORY/CONFIDENTIAL EMPLOYEES:
The city council may designate by resolution certain employee classifications;
those classifications being categorized as management, supervisory, and
confidential employees as defined below:
CONFIDENTIAL EMPLOYEE: An employee, who, in the course of his or her duties,
has access to information relating to the city's administration of employer-
employee relations.
MANAGEMENT EMPLOYEE: An employee having responsibility for formulating,
administering or managing the implementation of city policies or programs.
SUPERVISORY EMPLOYEE: An employee having authority, in the interest of the
city, to hire, transfer, suspend, lay off, recall, promote, discharge, assign,
reward, or discipline other employees, or responsibility to direct them, or to
adjust their grievances, or effectively to recommend such action, if, in
connection with the foregoing, the exercise of such authority is not of a
merely routine or clerical nature, but requires the use of independent
judgment.
Employees having supervisory authority, who choose to remain or to become
members of an employee organization which includes as members employees who are
not management, confidential, or supervisory employees, may serve as
representatives of such organization in relations with city management and/or
the council on matters within the scope of representation, or in a grievance
procedure, so long as said matters are not in conflict with supervisor/
subordinate relationship required of the supervisory employee (for example:
representing a subordinate employee in a grievance procedure or representing
other than supervisory employees in a meet and confer session). (Ord. 538, 10-
1-1991)
CHAPTER 11
ASSESSOR AND TAX COLLECTOR, ABOLITION OF OFFICE
SECTION:
1-11-1: Definitions
1-11-2: Transfer Of Duties
1-11-3: Abolition Of Offices Of City Assessor And City Tax Collector
1-11-4: Filing Of Certified Copy
1-11-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following words and expressions when used in this Chapter shall for the
purpose of this Chapter have the meanings respectively ascribed to them as
follows:
CITY: The City of Taft, a municipal corporation, situated in the County of
Kern, State of California.
COUNTY: The County of Kern, a political subdivision of the State of California.
(Ord. 291, 3-2-1964)
1-11-2: TRANSFER OF DUTIES:
The assessment and tax collection duties, and the collection of assessments
levied for Municipal improvements, are hereby transferred to the Assessor and
the Tax Collector of the County for the purpose of assessment and collection of
and for ad valorem property taxes that become alien after the adoption of this
Chapter, and the collection of assessments for Municipal improvements becoming
due and payable on and after July 1, 1965. (Ord. 307, 1-18-1965)
1-11-3: ABOLITION OF OFFICES OF CITY ASSESSOR AND CITY TAX COLLECTOR:
The offices of the City Assessor and City Tax Collector are hereby abolished as
of July 1, 1965, and thereafter all duties performed by the City Assessor other
than the assessing of property in the City, and all duties performed by the
City Tax Collector other than the collection of ad valorem taxes on property
that becomes a lien after the adoption of this Chapter and the collection of
assessments for Municipal improvements become due and payable on and after July
1, 1965, are hereby transferred to and are to be performed by the City Clerk.
(Ord. 307, 1-18-1965)
1-11-4: FILING OF CERTIFIED COPY:
The City Clerk shall cause a certified copy of this Ordinance to be filed with
the Auditor of the County of Kern on or before the first Monday of February,
1965, and immediately thereafter shall notify the State Board of Equalization.
(Ord. 307, 1-18-1965)
CHAPTER 12
CITY DISASTER COUNCIL
SECTION:
1-12-1: Purposes
1-12-2: Definition
1-12-3: Disaster Council Membership
1-12-4: Disaster Council Powers And Duties
1-12-5: Director And Assistant Director Of Emergency Services
1-12-6: Powers And Duties Of The Director And Assistant Of Emergency Services
1-12-7: Emergency Organization
1-12-8: Emergency Plan
1-12-9: Expenditures
1-12-10: Punishment Of Violations
1-12-1: PURPOSES:
The declared purposes of this Chapter are to provide for the preparation and
carrying out of plans for the protection of persons and property within this
City in the event of an emergency; the direction of the emergency organization;
and the coordination of the emergency functions of this City with all other
public agencies, corporations, organizations, and affected private persons.
(Ord. 416, 8-20-1979)
1-12-2: DEFINITION:
As used in this Chapter, "emergency" shall mean the actual or threatened
existence of conditions of disaster or of extreme peril to the safety of
persons and property within this City caused by such conditions as air
pollution, fire, flood, storm, epidemic, riot, or earthquake, or other
conditions, including conditions resulting from war or imminent threat of war,
but other than conditions resulting from a labor controversy, which conditions
are or are likely to be beyond the control of the services, personnel,
equipment, and facilities of this City, requiring the combined forces of other
political subdivisions to combat. (Ord. 416, 8-20-1979)
1-12-3: DISASTER COUNCIL MEMBERSHIP:
The City Disaster Council is hereby created and shall consist of the following:
   (A)   The Mayor, who shall be chairman.
   (B)   The Director of Emergency Services, who shall be vice chairman.
   (C)   The Assistant Director of Emergency Services.
   (D)   Such chiefs of emergency services as are provided for in a current
emergency plan of this City, adopted pursuant to this Chapter.
   (E)   Such representatives of civic, business, labor, veterans,
professional, or other organizations having an official emergency
responsibility, as may be appointed by the director with the advice and consent
of the City Council. (Ord. 416, 8-20-1979)
1-12-4: DISASTER COUNCIL POWERS AND DUTIES:
It shall be the duty of the City Disaster Council, and it is hereby empowered
to develop and recommend for adoption by the City Council, emergency and mutual
aid plans and agreements and such ordinances and resolutions and rules and
regulations as are necessary to implement such plans and agreements. The
Disaster Council shall meet upon call of the chairman or, in his absence from
the City or inability to call such meeting, upon call of the vice chairman.
(Ord. 416, 8-20-1979)
1-12-5: DIRECTOR AND ASSISTANT DIRECTOR OF EMERGENCY SERVICES:
   (A)   There is hereby created the office of Director of Emergency Services.
The City Manager shall be the Director of Emergency Services.
   (B)   There is hereby created the office of Assistant Director of Emergency
Services, who shall be appointed by the Director. (Ord. 416, 8-20-1979)
1-12-6: POWERS AND DUTIES OF THE DIRECTOR AND ASSISTANT OF EMERGENCY SERVICES:
   (A)   The Director is hereby empowered to:
      1.   Request the City Council to proclaim the existence or threatened
existence of a "local emergency" if the City Council is in session, or to issue
such proclamation if the City Council is not in session. Whenever a local
emergency is proclaimed by the Director, the City Council shall take action to
ratify the proclamation within seven (7) days thereafter or the proclamation
shall have no further force or effect.
      2.   Request the Governor to proclaim a "state of emergency" when, in the
opinion of the Director, the locally available resources are inadequate to cope
with the emergency.
      3.   Control and direct the effort of the emergency organization of this
City for the accomplishment of the purposes of this Chapter.
      4.   Direct cooperation between and coordination of services and staff of
the emergency organization of this City; and resolve questions of authority and
responsibility that may arise between them.
      5.   Represent this City in all dealings with public or private agencies
on matters pertaining to emergencies as defined herein.
      6.   In the event of the proclamation of a "local emergency" as herein
provided, the proclamation of a "state of emergency" by the Governor or the
Director of the State Office of Emergency Services, or the existence of a
"state of war emergency", the director is hereby empowered:
         (a)   To make and issue rules and regulations on matters reasonably
related to the protection of life and property as affected by such emergency;
provided however, such rules and regulations must be confirmed at the earliest
practicable time by the City Council.
         (b)   To obtain vital supplies, equipment, and such other properties
found lacking and needed for the protection of life and property and to bind
the City for the fair value thereof and, if required immediately, to commandeer
the same for public use.
         (c)   To require emergency services of any City officer or employee
and, in the event of the proclamation of a "state of emergency" in the county
in which this City is located or the existence of a "state of war emergency",
to command the aid of as many citizens of this community as he deems necessary
in the execution of his duties; such persons shall be entitled to all
privileges, benefits, and immunities as are provided by State law for
registered disaster service workers.
         (d)   To requisition necessary personnel or material of any City
Department or agency; and
         (e)   To execute all of his ordinary power as City Manager, all of the
special powers conferred upon him by this Chapter or by resolution or emergency
plan pursuant hereto adopted by the City Council, all powers conferred upon him
by any Statute, by any agreement approved by the City Council, and by any other
lawful authority.
   (B)   The Director of Emergency Services shall designate the order of
succession to that office, to take effect in the event the director is
unavailable to attend meetings and otherwise perform his duties during an
emergency. Such order of succession shall be approved by the City Council.
   (C)   The Assistant Director shall, under the supervision of the Director
and with the assistance of emergency service chiefs, develop emergency plans
and manage the emergency programs of this City; and shall have such other
powers and duties as may be assigned by the Director. (Ord. 416, 8-20-1979)
1-12-7: EMERGENCY ORGANIZATION:
All officers and employees of this City, together with those volunteer forces
enrolled to aid them during an emergency, and all groups, organizations, and
persons who may by agreement or operation of law, including persons impressed
into service under the provisions of subsection
1-12-6(A)6(c) of this Chapter, be charged with duties incident to the
protection of life and property in this City during such emergency, shall
constitute the emergency organization of the City. (Ord. 416, 8-20-1979)
1-12-8: EMERGENCY PLAN:
The City Disaster Council shall be responsible for the development of the City
emergency plan, which plan shall provide for the effective mobilization of all
of the resources of this City, both public and private, to meet any condition
constituting a local emergency, state of emergency, or state of war emergency;
and shall provide for the organization, powers and duties, services, and staff
of the emergency organization. Such plan shall take effect upon adoption by
resolution of the city council. (Ord. 416, 8-20-1979)
1-12-9: EXPENDITURES:
Any expenditures made in connection with emergency activities, including mutual
aid activities, shall be deemed conclusively to be for the direct protection
and benefit of the inhabitants and property of the city. (Ord. 416, 8-20-1979)
1-12-10: PUNISHMENT OF VIOLATIONS:
It shall be a misdemeanor punishable by a fine of not to exceed five hundred
dollars ($500.00), or by imprisonment in the county jail not to exceed six (6)
months, or both such fine and imprisonment, for any person, during an emergency
to:
   (A)   Wilfully obstruct, hinder, or delay any member of the emergency
organization in the enforcement of any lawful rule or regulation issued
pursuant to this chapter, or in the performance of any duty imposed upon him by
virtue of this chapter.
   (B)   Do any act forbidden by any lawful rule or regulation issued pursuant
to this chapter, if any such act is of such a nature as to give or be likely to
give assistance to the enemy or to imperil the lives or property of inhabitants
of this city, or to prevent, hinder, or delay the defense or protection
thereof.
   (C)   Wear, carry, or display, without authority, any means of
identification specified by the emergency agency of the state. (Ord. 694-02, 8-
20-2002)
CHAPTER 13
CLAIMS
SECTION:
1-13-1: Claims
1-13-2: Section 1094.6, Code Of Civil Procedure Applicable In City
1-13-3: Application Of Section 1094.6
1-13-4: Claims Against City
1-13-1: CLAIMS:
The Council must not hear or consider any claim in favor of any person, against
the City, nor shall the Council credit or allow any claim or bill against the
City, unless the same is itemized, giving names, dates and particular service
rendered, character of work done, number of days engaged, supplies or materials
furnished, to who and quantity and price therefor, duly verified to be correct
and that the amount claimed is justly due.
No account shall be passed upon Council unless made out as prescribed in this
and the preceding Section, and filed with the Clerk three (3) days prior to the
time of the meeting of the Council at which it is asked to be allowed. (Ord.
73, 4-5-1915)
1-13-2: SECTION 1094.6, CODE OF CIVIL PROCEDURE APPLICABLE IN CITY:
   (A)   Section 1094.6 of the Code of Civil Procedure of the State relating to
time for filing writs of mandate, shall be and is applicable in the City.
   (B)   The provisions of such section shall prevail over any conflicting
provision in any otherwise applicable law relating to the subject matter. (Ord.
480, 11-15-1983)
1-13-3: APPLICATION OF SECTION 1094.6:
In addition to any other applications, section 1094.6 of the Code of Civil
Procedure applies to decisions made, after hearing, suspending, demoting or
dismissing an officer or employee, revoking or denying an application for a
permit or a license, or denying an application for any retirement benefit or
allowance. (Ord. 480, 11-15-1983)
1-13-4: CLAIMS AGAINST CITY:
Notwithstanding the exemptions set forth in section 905 of the Government Code
of the State, all claims against the City for damages or money, when a
procedure for processing such claims is not otherwise provided by State or
local laws, regulations or ordinances, shall be presented within the time
limitations and in the manner described by sections 910 through 915.2 of the
Government Code of the State. Such claims shall further be subject to the
provisions of sections 945 through 946 of the Government Code of the State
relating to the prohibition of suits in the absence of the presentation of
claims, along with action thereon by the City Council of the City. (Ord. 620-
94, 10-18-1994)
CHAPTER 14
CERTIFICATE OF INSURANCE; WORKMAN'S COMPENSATION
SECTION:
1-14-1: Certificate Required
1-14-2: Exemptions
1-14-1: CERTIFICATE REQUIRED:
Every person shall be required to file with the City a certificate from an
insurance carrier authorized to do business in the State certifying that the
applicant is covered under the provisions of the Workman's Compensation Act of
the State, or in lieu thereof a Certificate of Consent to Self-Insurance,
approved by the Insurance Commissioner of the State and under the provisions of
the Industrial Accident Laws of the State prior to the issuance by the City of
any permit to do any building, plumbing, or electrical work. (Ord. 216, 4-18-
1955)
1-14-2: EXEMPTIONS:
An applicant may be exempted from the requirements of Section
1-14-1 by filing an affidavit stating reason for exemption as follows:
   (A)   Filing an affidavit that applicant is a licensed contractor, and that
he will not employ any labor in the prosecution of the proposed work.
   (B)   Filing an affidavit that the applicant is an owner-builder and that
all work will be done by self or immediate family.
   (C)   Filing a affidavit stating that the applicant will complete the
construction of the proposed work or improvement in less than ten (10) days
from the time of commencement of the proposed work or improvement, and that the
total cost thereof of all labor is less than one hundred dollars ($100.00).
   (D)   Filing an affidavit stating that applicant is the authorized agent of
a church or fraternal organization whose members are donating their time and
labor, and are not receiving any compensation therefore, and that none of the
work is being donated by a contractor in his capacity as a contractor, and that
the construction of said building or improvement is a normal function of the
church or fraternal organization. (Ord. 216, 4-18-1955)
CHAPTER 15
BOARD OF CHARITY SOLICITATIONS
   (Rep. by Ord. 610, 4-19-1994)
CHAPTER 16
CONFLICT OF INTEREST CODE
SECTION:
1-16-1: Adoption Of Code
1-16-2: Filing Of Statements Of Economic Interests
1-16-1: ADOPTION OF CODE:
The terms of title 2, division 6 of the California Code of Regulations and any
amendments to it duly adopted by the Fair Political Practices Commission are
hereby incorporated by reference and shall constitute the conflict of interest
code of the City. (Ord. 665-99, 2-16-1999)
1-16-2: FILING OF STATEMENTS OF ECONOMIC INTERESTS:
Designated employees shall be established by resolution, and officers and
designated employees shall file the statements of economic interests with the
City Clerk who will make copies available for public inspection and
reproduction. (Ord. 665-99, 2-16-1999)
CHAPTER 17
POLICE RESERVE
SECTION:
1-17-1: Establishment Of Police Reserve
1-17-2: Authority And Control Of Chief Of Police
1-17-3: Method Of Appointment
1-17-4: Rules And Regulations, Duties
1-17-5: Identification Card And Insignia
1-17-6: Removal From Membership, Resignation
1-17-7: Firearms And Police Baton
1-17-8: Power Of Arrest, Authority To Direct Traffic
1-17-9: Regulating Size Of Force
1-17-10: Impersonation Prohibited
1-17-11: Uniform
1-17-1: ESTABLISHMENT OF POLICE RESERVE:
A police reserve, hereinafter called "reserves", is established as a voluntary
organization composed of persons appointed by the Chief of Police, hereinafter
called the "Chief", the persons to serve gratuitously as a unit of the Police
Department of the City to assist regular police officers in law enforcement and
the maintenance of peace and order during times designated by the Chief. (Ord.
484, 2-21-1984)
1-17-2: AUTHORITY AND CONTROL OF CHIEF OF POLICE:
Subject to the provisions of this Chapter, the Chief shall have complete
authority and control over the reserves. He may appoint as members thereof any
persons whom he deems to be qualified and he may reject any applications for
membership. He shall provide for the training of candidates for membership and
for the further training of members in all fields of police activity and for
that purpose may assign such members to various police duties. Membership in
this organization is open to both men and women. Whenever the male gender is
used in this Chapter, it includes both male and female. (Ord. 484, 2-21-1984)
1-17-3: METHOD OF APPOINTMENT:
No person shall become a member of the reserves until he has taken the training
and he is able to meet all other requirements prescribed by the Chief. When so
qualified and selected, he shall then be sworn in by the Chief, or by the
Chief's representative, as a member of the reserves. (Ord. 484, 2-21-1984)
1-17-4: RULES AND REGULATIONS, DUTIES:
In order to effectuate the purpose of the reserves, the Chief may, by order,
establish rules and regulations to govern the reserves, including the fixing of
specific duties of its members and the providing for the maintenance of
discipline. He may change the orders from time to time. (Ord. 484, 2-21-1984)
1-17-5: IDENTIFICATION CARD AND INSIGNIA:
An identification card, badge, and cap piece, and such other insignia or
evidence of identification as the Chief may prescribe, shall be issued to each
member who must carry the card at all times. Each member must surrender all
City property issued to him upon the termination of his membership. (Ord. 484,
2-21-1984)
1-17-6: REMOVAL FROM MEMBERSHIP, RESIGNATION:
The membership of any person in the reserve may be terminated by the Chief at
his sole discretion, at any time, and any such member may resign from the
reserves at any time upon notifying the Chief in writing of his resignation.
(Ord. 484, 2-21-1984)
1-17-7: FIREARMS AND POLICE BATON:
No member of the reserves shall carry any firearm until he has qualified for,
and received, a gun permit signed by the Chief. All members of the reserves
shall carry the regulation police baton. (Ord. 484, 2-21-1984)
1-17-8: POWER OF ARREST, AUTHORITY TO DIRECT TRAFFIC:
A member of the reserves when on duty as assigned by the Chief shall have the
authority given officers of the Police Department to direct traffic, and shall
have the same power of arrest granted a regular member of the Police
Department, subject to any limitations which the Chief may impose. Such members
are authorized to make arrests and issue written notices to appear for such
violations pursuant to section 836.5 of the California Penal Code while
performing the duties designated by the chief. (Ord. 484, 2-21-1984)
1-17-9: REGULATING SIZE OF FORCE:
The chief may, by order, diminish or expand the membership of the reserves as
may be required. (Ord. 484, 2-21-1984)
1-17-10: IMPERSONATION PROHIBITED:
It shall be an infraction, punishable by a fine not to exceed two hundred fifty
dollars ($250.00), for any person, not a member of the reserves:
   (A)   To wear, carry or display a reserve identification card, badge, cap
piece or insignia;
   (B)   In any manner to represent himself to be connected with the reserves.
(Ord. 694-02, 8-20-2002)
1-17-11: UNIFORM:
The uniform for members of the reserves shall be similar to the uniform worn by
members of the regular police department with an identifying insignia to be
prescribed by the chief of police. (Ord. 484, 2-21-1984)
CHAPTER 18
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT AGENCY
SECTION:
1-18-1: Creation
1-18-2: Duties
1-18-3: City Council To Serve As Agency
1-18-4: Meetings
1-18-5: Appointments
1-18-6: Staff
1-18-7: Official Seal
1-18-1: CREATION:
The City Council hereby finds and declares in accordance with Health and Safety
Code section 33101 that there is a need for a community development agency to
exist and to function in the City, pursuant to the Act. (Ord. 513, 10-22-1985)
1-18-2: DUTIES:
The City Council hereby establishes the Taft Community Development Agency (the
"Development Agency"), a public body, corporate and politic, with all rights,
powers, duties, privileges and immunities as are set forth in the Act. (Ord.
513, 10-22-1985)
1-18-3: CITY COUNCIL TO SERVE AS AGENCY:
The City Council hereby finds and determines that the public interest would be
served and the public safety would be promoted in an effective manner by having
the City Council serve and function as the Development Agency and, pursuant to
Health and Safety Code section 33200, the City Council hereby declares itself
to be the Development Agency. (Ord. 513, 10-22-1985)
1-18-4: MEETINGS:
The Development Agency shall conduct regular meetings on the first and third
Tuesday of each month at the hour of eight o'clock (8:00) P.M., or as soon
thereafter as practicable, at City Council Chambers, City Hall, 209 East Kern
Street, Taft, California 93268. (Ord. 513, 10-22-1985)
1-18-5: APPOINTMENTS:
The City Council hereby authorizes and directs the Mayor of the City to serve
and function as the chairman of the Development Agency, the City Manager of the
City to serve and function as the executive director of the Development Agency
and the City Clerk of the City to serve and function as the secretary of the
Development Agency. (Ord. 513, 10-22-1985)
1-18-6: STAFF:
The Development Agency shall have full access to the services and facilities of
the Planning Commission of the City, the City Engineer, and other departments
and officers of the City, and the City Council hereby authorizes and directs
the staff of the City to serve and function as the staff of the Development
Agency. Any and all personnel rules and regulations adopted by the City and
applicable to staff of the City shall be applicable to the staff of the
Development Agency. (Ord. 513, 10-22-1985)
1-18-7: OFFICIAL SEAL:
The staff of the Development Agency are hereby authorized and directed to cause
an official seal of the Development Agency to be prepared, and the secretary of
the Development Agency is hereby authorized and directed to cause a certified
copy of this Chapter to be filed with the office of the Secretary of State for
the State of California, as well as to cause any and all other filings as are
required by law to evidence the information and existence of the Development
Agency. (Ord. 513, 10-22-1985)
CHAPTER 19
ELECTION OF COUNCIL MEMBERS
SECTION:
1-19-1: Election Dates
1-19-2: Council Terms
1-19-3: City Treasurer; Term
1-19-4: Effective Date Of Office
1-19-5: Extension Of Existing Terms Of Office
1-19-6: City Clerk
1-19-1: ELECTION DATES:
A general Municipal election for the election of members of the Council, City
Clerk and City Treasurer and for such other purposes as may be prescribed,
shall be held in the City on the same day as the Statewide general election
held in November of each even-numbered year. (Ord. 535, 2-17-1987)
1-19-2: COUNCIL TERMS:
Two (2) Council seats shall be voted upon the date of the Statewide general
election in November, 1988, and thereafter every four (4) years. Three (3)
Council seats shall be voted upon the date of the Statewide general election in
November, 1990, and thereafter every four (4) years. The person having the
highest number of votes, consistent with the number of seats up for election,
shall be elected. The elected members of the Council shall hold office until
their successors are elected or appointed and qualified. (Ord. 535, 2-17-1987)
1-19-3: CITY TREASURER; TERM:
The position of City Treasurer shall be voted upon the date of the Statewide
general election in November, 1988, and thereafter every four (4) years. The
person having the highest number of votes for the position of City Treasurer
shall be elected. The City Treasurer shall hold office until their successor is
elected or appointed and qualified. (Ord. 535, 2-17-1987; amd. Ord. 850-22, 12-
20-2022)
1-19-4: EFFECTIVE DATE OF OFFICE:
Newly elected Council members and the City Treasurer shall assume the duties of
their office commencing on the fourth Tuesday following the general Municipal
election. (Ord. 558, 8-16-1988; amd. Ord. 850-22, 12-20-2022)
1-19-5: EXTENSION OF EXISTING TERMS OF OFFICE:
Pursuant to section 36503.5 of the Government Code and section 17088 of the
Election Code, the following terms of office are extended as follows:
   (A)   Those Council members’ terms that expire on the third Tuesday
following the general Municipal elections in November, 1988, are extended to
the fourth Tuesday following the general Municipal election in November, 1988.
   (B)   Those Council members’ terms that expire on the third Tuesday
following the general Municipal elections in November, 1990, are extended to
the fourth Tuesday following the general Municipal election in November, 1990.
   (C)   The City Treasurer’s term that expires on the third Tuesday following
the general Municipal election in November, 1988, is extended to the fourth
Tuesday following the general Municipal election in November, 1988. (Ord. 558,
8-16-1988; amd. Ord. 850-22, 12-20-2022)
1-19-6: CITY CLERK:
The position of City Clerk shall be filled by a majority vote of the City
Council of the City of Taft. The City Clerk shall serve at the pleasure of the
City Council, but may be removed only by a majority vote of the entire City
Council. The City Clerk shall keep the City Council informed on a regular
basis, but shall report to and take direction from only the City Manager. The
duties of the City Clerk shall be as required by State of California code and
as defined by applicable City Council resolution. The person serving as City
Clerk at the time the City of Taft’s electors approve the City Council to
appoint the City Clerk shall continue to serve as City Clerk until such
appointment by the City Council. (Ord. 850-22, 12-20-2022)
CHAPTER 20
FEE AND SERVICE CHARGE REVENUE/COST COMPARISON SYSTEM
SECTION:
1-20-1: Intent
1-20-2: Delegation Of Authority And Direction To City Manager
1-20-3: Costs Reasonably Borne Defined
1-20-4: Schedule Of Fees And Service Charges
1-20-5: Public Meeting
1-20-6: Provision Of Data
1-20-7: Appeal To The City Council
1-20-1: INTENT:
Pursuant to article XIIIB of the California constitution, it is the intent of
the city council to require the ascertainment and recovery of costs reasonably
borne from fees and charges levied therefor in providing the regulation,
products or services hereinafter enumerated in this chapter. (Ord. 790-11, 12-
6-2011)
1-20-2: DELEGATION OF AUTHORITY AND DIRECTION TO CITY MANAGER:
The city manager is hereby delegated the authority and directed to set and
adjust fees and charges to recover the percentage of costs reasonably borne in
providing the regulation, product or service enumerated in this chapter in the
percentage of costs reasonably borne and on the schedule of rate review and
revision as hereinafter established in this chapter.
"Costs reasonably borne" shall be as defined in section
1-20-3 of this chapter. In adjusting fees and charges, the city manager shall
act in an administrative and ministerial capacity and shall consider only the
standards and criteria established by this chapter. (Ord. 790-11, 12-6-2011)
1-20-3: COSTS REASONABLY BORNE DEFINED:
"Costs reasonably borne", as used and ordered to be applied in this chapter are
to consist of the following elements:
   (A)   All applicable direct costs including, but not limited to, salaries,
wages, overtime, employee fringe benefits, services and supplies, maintenance
and operation expenses, contracted services, special supplies, and any other
direct expense incurred.
   (B)   All applicable indirect costs including, but not restricted to,
building maintenance and operations, equipment maintenance and operations,
communications expenses, computer costs, printing and reproduction, vehicle
expenses, insurance and like expenses when distributed on an accounted and
documented rational proration system.
   (C)   Fixed assets recovery expenses, consisting of depreciation of fixed
assets, and additional fixed asset expense recovery charges calculated on the
current estimated cost of replacement, divided by the approximate life
expectancy of the fixed asset. A further additional charge to make up the
difference between book value depreciation not previously recovered and
reserved in cash and the full cost of replacement, which also shall be
calculated and considered a cost so as to recover such unrecovered costs
between book value and cost of replacement over the remaining life of the
asset.
   (D)   General overhead, expressed as a percentage, distributing and charging
the expenses of the city council, city manager, finance department, city clerk,
city treasurer, city attorney's office, community development, public works,
police department, and all other staff and support services provided to the
entire city organization.
Overhead shall be prorated between tax financed services and fee financed
services on the basis of said percentage so that each of taxes and/or fees and
charges shall proportionately defray such overhead costs.
   (E)   Departmental overhead, expressed as a percentage, distributing and
charging the cost of each department head and his or her supporting expenses as
enumerated in subsections (A), (B), and (C) of this section.
   (F)   Debt service costs, consisting of repayment of principal, payment of
interest, and trustee fees and administrative expenses for all applicable bond,
certificate, note or securities issues or loans. Any required coverage factors
of added reserves beyond basic debt service costs also shall be considered a
cost if required by covenant within any securities ordinance, resolution,
indenture or general law applicable to the city. (Ord. 790-11, 12-6-2011)
1-20-4: SCHEDULE OF FEES AND SERVICE CHARGES:
Finance director and each city department head, under the direction of the city
manager, shall review the fees and service charges as needed, as adopted by
resolution, and set and adjust the fee or charge schedule so as to recover
costs reasonably borne necessary to provide the listed regulation, product or
service.
All fees and charges set in a fee schedule pursuant to this chapter and section
shall take effect thirty (30) days after the city manager signs an executive
order stipulating that all provisions of this chapter have been complied with,
and no written appeal has been filed.
The city manager may adjust revenues sufficient to meet debt service coverage
requirements of any bond, certificate, or ordinance, resolution, indenture,
contract, or action under which securities have been issued by the city which
contain any coverage factor requirements. (Ord. 790-11, 12-6-2011)
1-20-5: PUBLIC MEETING:
Pursuant to the requirements of California Government Code section 54992, the
city clerk shall cause notice to be provided as set out in said Government Code
section 54992, and the city council shall receive at a public meeting oral and
written presentations concerning the fees and charges proposed for those
categories of fees and charges set out in Government Code sections 54990 and
54991. Such notice, oral and written presentation receipt, and public meeting
shall be provided by the city council prior to the city manager taking any
action on any new or increased fees or charges for those categories set out in
said Government Code sections 54990 and 54991.
Pursuant to section 54992 of the California Government Code, the city manager
shall, at least ten (10) days prior to the required public meeting set out in
said Government Code section, make available to the public data indicating the
cost, or estimated cost required to provide the services set out in Government
Code section 54990 and 54991. (Ord. 790-11, 12-6-2011)
1-20-6: PROVISION OF DATA:
Pursuant to section 54-992 of the California Government Code, the city manager
shall, at least ten (10) days prior to the required public meeting set out in
said Government Code section, make available to the public data indicating the
cost, or estimated cost required to provide the services set out in Government
Code section 54-990 and 54-991. (Ord. 790-11, 12-6-2011)
1-20-7: APPEAL TO THE CITY COUNCIL:
Any person who feels that any fee or charge determined and set by the city
manager is in excess of the percentage of costs reasonably borne to be
recovered as set out in section
1-20-4 of this chapter, or that such fee or charge has been reviewed prior to
or has not been reviewed within the review schedule as set out in section
1-20-4 of this chapter, may appeal in writing to the city council.
No fee for which an appeal has been filed shall take effect until heard by the
city council. Such appeal shall be placed on the agenda of the next ensuing
council meeting after receipt of such appeal, and heard at the next ensuing
council meeting. Such appealed fee or charge shall take effect immediately upon
hearing by the city council unless ordered otherwise by ordinance amending this
chapter. (Ord. 790-11, 12-6-2011)
CHAPTER 21
DEPARTMENT OF FINANCE
SECTION:
1-21-1: Creation And Duties
1-21-2: Finance Director; Appointment And Duties
1-21-1: CREATION AND DUTIES:
There is created and established in and for the City a Finance Department,
which Department is vested and charged with the following duties and
responsibilities:
   (A)   To maintain and operate the general accounting system of the City and
of each and all of the respective departments, offices and agencies thereof;
   (B)   To perform or to prescribe such accounting functions and duties in
accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) promulgated by
the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants (AICPA) and in
accordance with accounting and reporting standards established by the
Government Accounting Standards Board (GASB);
   (C)   To keep and maintain or to prescribe and require the keeping and
maintaining of inventory records of Municipal properties necessary in
accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) and in
accordance with standards established by the Governmental Accounting Standards
Board (GASB);
   (D)   To assume, maintain and perform all functions and duties relating to
the administration and control of business license issued by the City, and of
the collection revenues arising therefrom;
   (E)   To assume and perform all Municipal functions and duties relating to
the preparation, auditing; presenting and disbursement of claims and demands
against the City, including payrolls;
   (F)   To assist the City Manager in the preparation of the annual budget and
in the administration thereof;
   (G)   1. To prepare and present to the City Council through the City Manager
in sufficient detail to show the exact financial conditions:
         (a)   A monthly (or more frequently as may be desired) statement of
all receipts, disbursements and balances of the City;
         (b)   An annual statement and report of the financial condition of the
City;
         (c)   Such other financial reports as may be required by the City
Council or the City Manager.
      2.   To prepare and present the annual report required by law to the
State Controller, and such other further and additional reports as may be
required from time to time by law.
   (H)   To perform such additional duties and functions as may be hereafter
prescribed or required by the City Manager. (Ord. 655-97, 8-19-1997)
1-21-2: FINANCE DIRECTOR; APPOINTMENT AND DUTIES:
   (A)   The position of Finance Director is established and created. The
Finance Director shall be appointed by the City Manager.
   (B)   The duties and functions of the Finance Director shall include, but
not be limited to, the following:
      1.   That the financial and accounting duties heretofore imposed upon the
City Clerk under sections 40802 through 40805 of the Government Code are hereby
transferred to the Finance Director and the performance of such duties as
required by said code sections is hereby imposed upon the Finance Director;
      2.   Supervise and direct the Finance Department of the City, subject to
direction and approval of the City Manager;
      3.   Appoint, with the approval of the City Manager, such subordinate
employees as may be authorized by the City Council for the Department;
      4.   Cooperate with the City Treasurer and other department heads of the
City in establishing and maintaining sufficient and satisfactory procedures and
controls over Municipal revenues and expenditures in all departments of the
City in accordance with GAAP and in accordance with standards established by
the GASB;
      5.   Furnish an official bond for the faithful performance of his/her
duties in such amount as may be determined by the City Council at the time of
employment;
      6.   Perform such other duties as the City Manager or the City Council
through the City Manager may from time to time direct. (Ord. 655-97, 8-19-1997)
TITLE II
PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
CHAPTER 1
TREES AND SHRUBBERY
SECTION:
2-1-1: Title
2-1-2: Types Of Trees
2-1-3: Planning Commission; Duty
2-1-4: Maintenance And Replacement Of Trees
2-1-5: Malicious Mischief To Trees; Injury To
2-1-6: Duty Of Street Superintendent
2-1-7: Property Owner Maintenance Responsibility
2-1-8: Property Owner Maintenance Notice
2-1-9: Liability Of Property Owner
2-1-10: Liability Of City
2-1-1: TITLE:
This Chapter shall be known as the "Tree Regulations" and may be cited and
referred to as such. (Ord. 246, 1-20-1958)
2-1-2: TYPES OF TREES:
The Planning Commission is hereby authorized and directed to ascertain and
determine the types and varieties of trees for planting along or overhanging
the streets and after consulting tree lists approved by horticulturists and/or
arborists. Such list shall be filed in the office of the Clerk and copies
thereof made available to the public. (Ord. 246, 1-20-1958)
2-1-3: PLANNING COMMISSION; DUTY:
The Planning Commission shall from time to time when directed by the Council
prepare a completed map of the City streets and designating a uniform method of
street tree planting; the zoning of certain streets for types and varieties of
trees. Such plans may show the intervals between trees and the location where
such trees may be planted. (Ord. 246, 1-20-1958)
2-1-4: MAINTENANCE AND REPLACEMENT OF TREES:
Every owner, tenant or other person having the possession or control of real
property within the City shall have the duty to properly care for, maintain and
replace all trees, shrubs and plants now or hereafter planted within any
parkway or public place immediately adjacent to such real property. Replacement
of trees, shrubs and plants removed due to injury, disease, accident, death or
any other cause shall be pursuant to the approved tree, shrub and plant list.
If removal of a tree, shrub or plant is due to accident or other cause subject
to reimbursement through insurance, such proceeds shall be paid to the City and
the City will replace such tree, shrub or plant. A non-fee permit to plant a
tree, shrub or plant in any parkway or public place immediately adjacent to
private property shall be required. (Ord. 353, 8-3-1970)
2-1-5: MALICIOUS MISCHIEF TO TREES; INJURY TO:
No person shall harm, injure or destroy any tree, shrub or plant growing upon
any street, park, parkway or public place. No person shall cause or allow any
brine water, oil or any other substance deleterious to tree or plant life to
lie, flow or drip on or into the soil about the case or near any tree, shrub or
plant in any street, park, parkway or other public place. (Ord. 246, 1-20-1958)
2-1-6: DUTY OF STREET SUPERINTENDENT:
The Superintendent of Streets or other person designated by the Council is
hereby authorized to inspect any tree, shrub or plant in any public place to
determine whether the same constitutes a hazard, present or imminent, to the
traveling public, or otherwise and when so determined he may cause or direct
the hazardous condition to be removed or abated. (Ord. 246, 1-20-1958)
2-1-7: PROPERTY OWNER MAINTENANCE RESPONSIBILITY:
It shall be the duty of every owner, agent, tenant or other person having
control of private property to maintain any trees, shrubs, hedges or other
landscaping along a street, street right of way or public place adjacent to
that person's property in such a nondangerous condition that the trees, shrubs,
hedges or other landscaping will not interfere with the public convenience,
access or safety in the use of the streets, sidewalks or public places. Said
persons shall maintain such trees, shrubs, hedges or other landscaping so that
there is minimum eight foot (8') vertical pedestrian clearance from the top of
the sidewalk, or other walk way, and a minimum thirteen foot (13') vehicular
clearance from the top of any curb, street or public place to any part of a
tree, shrub, hedge or other landscaping located on person's property.
For purposes of this Chapter, maintenance of trees, shrubs, hedges or other
landscaping includes but is not limited to: deep root watering, root pruning,
installing root bearers, clearance and structural trimming, fertilizing, pest
control, and removal of branches, leaves, and other debris. (Ord. 616, 6-21-
1994)
2-1-8: PROPERTY OWNER MAINTENANCE NOTICE:
When the owner of property fails to maintain that property pursuant to Section
2-1-7 of this Chapter and a dangerous condition, hazard or impediment to
progress or vision of the traveling public on a street or public place is found
to exist, the street superintendent shall provide notice of such hazard to the
owner or occupant of the premises and request the abatement of said condition.
The notice shall be given either by personal service or registered mail and the
owner or occupant shall have ten (10) days to abate the condition complained of
subsequent to the service or mailing of the notice.
If any person neglects, refuses to comply with the directive in said notice,
the street superintendent is hereby authorized and directed to remove the cause
of the hazardous and/or dangerous condition or the impediment to the progress
or vision of anyone traveling on any street or public place, and the costs
thereof shall be a valid charge against the person and the property and may be
added to the current tax bill as a lien against the property. (Ord. 616, 6-21-
1994)
2-1-9: LIABILITY OF PROPERTY OWNER:
The owner of property required by this Chapter to maintain trees, shrubs,
hedges and other landscaping shall owe a duty to members of the public using
public streets and sidewalks to maintain such trees, shrubs, hedges and/or
other landscaping in a safe and nondangerous condition for users of the public
street and sidewalks.
If any property owner fails to maintain any trees, shrubs, hedges or other
landscaping adjacent to any street or public place in a nondangerous condition
as required by this Chapter, and any person suffers damage or injury to person
or property as a result thereof, the property owner shall be liable for all
damages or injuries caused by the failure of the owner to maintain these areas.
(Ord. 616, 6-21-1994)
2-1-10: LIABILITY OF CITY:
Nothing contained in this Chapter shall be deemed to impose any liability upon
the City, is officers, agents or employees, nor to relieve the owner of any
private property from the duty to keep any trees, shrubs, hedges and/or other
landscaping upon their property in such condition as to prevent it from
constituting a hazardous or dangerous condition to the public. (Ord. 616, 6-21-
1994)
CHAPTER 2
NUMBERING OF HOUSES AND STREET ENTRANCES
SECTION:
2-2-1: Map Adopted
2-2-2: Numbering System
2-2-3: Size Of Numbers
2-2-4: Designation Of Streets And Numbers
2-2-1: MAP ADOPTED:
The scheme or plan for numbering houses and street entrances to buildings in
the City, prepared by the Engineer, and shown by the street number map filed in
the office of the Engineer on October 6, 1924, is hereby approved and said map
is hereby adopted as the Official Street Number Map of the City.
The Official Street Number Map shall be kept in the office of the Engineer and
the Engineer shall, upon the application of the owner or occupant of any house
or building in this City, furnish him with a memorandum of the correct numbers
of each of its street entrances, after the owner or occupant has furnished the
Engineer with a correct description of the property built upon. (Ord. 161, 10-
6-1924)
2-2-2: NUMBERING SYSTEM:
All street entrances to buildings and exterior doors to houses fronting on or
facing any street in the City shall be numbered to correspond with the prorated
number of the block, section or division of street frontage upon which it
fronts, as shown by the aforesaid Street Number Map. (Ord. 161, 10-6-1924)
2-2-3: SIZE OF NUMBERS:
All entrances to houses or buildings shall be numbered, and it shall be
unlawful for any person, whether owner or occupant of the house or building to
place, maintain or allow to remain thereon, any number other than the one
allotted by the provisions of this Chapter. The number placed upon any entrance
shall be at least one and three-quarter inches (13/4") in height and of a width
in proportion.
If the owner or occupant of any building or house in the City shall fail to
cause the main door or any street entrance thereof to be properly numbered, as
herein provided, for ten (10) days after receiving notice in writing from the
Engineer to cause such door or entrance to be numbered, he shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor; provided, that whenever any owner or occupant has been notified to
change the existing numbers upon his building or house, the old number may also
be temporarily retained for a period not exceeding ninety (90) days after
notice to change the same has been made. (Ord. 161, 10-6-1924)
2-2-4: DESIGNATION OF STREETS AND NUMBERS:
All numbers on buildings or houses facing streets running in a northerly
direction, and lying North of Main Street, shall be designated as Number      
North, and all numbers on buildings or houses facing streets running in a
southerly direction and lying South of Main Street, shall be designated as
Number        South. (Ord. 161, 10-6-1924)
CHAPTER 3
MOVING BUILDINGS
SECTION:
2-3-1: Utility Wires
2-3-2: Fee
2-3-3: Illegal Act
2-3-4: Moving Permit
2-3-5: Building Inspector's Duties
2-3-6: Premises To Be Clear
2-3-7: Deposit Required
2-3-1: UTILITY WIRES:
Whenever any person wishes to remove any building or other structure from one
place in the city to another, over any street thereof, above which telegraph,
telephone, trolley or other electric wires are suspended, and such wires are
not suspended at a sufficient height above the street to allow the passage of
such building or other structure across the street, and whenever it shall be
necessary to remove any of the poles from which such wires are suspended or to
remove or cut any guy or anchor wires or anchor posts, to allow the passage of
such building or other structure across the street, such person shall give
reasonable notice to the person, managing agent or the person controlling and
operating such wires, poles or posts of his desire to have such wires cut or
such poles or posts removed so as to permit the passage of such building or
other structure across the street.
He shall deposit with such person such sum, not exceeding twenty five dollars
($25.00), as such person shall estimate to be necessary to pay for the expense
and damage incident to the cutting of said wires and removal of such poles or
posts and restoring such wires, poles and posts to their former condition,
after the passage of such building or structure, and upon making such request
and such deposit, such person or agent controlling and operating such wires
shall fix and designate a reasonable time when he shall cut such wires and
remove such poles or posts and allow the passage of such building or other
structure across such street and such person desiring to remove such building
or other structure shall at the time so fixed and designated remove such
building or other structure across such street expeditiously, so as to occasion
the least delay and inconvenience in the use of the wires. (Ord. 16, 4-20-1911)
2-3-2: FEE:
The person controlling and operating the wires shall be entitled to payment
from the person removing such building or other structure of the expense and
damage incident to cutting of the wires and removing such poles and posts and
restoring them to their former condition after the passage of the building or
other structure, and if such expense and damage shall be of greater amount than
the deposit made as aforesaid, the person removing the building or other
structure shall pay to the person controlling and operating the wires such
additional expense and damage; and if such expense and damage shall be of less
amount than the deposit made as aforesaid; the person controlling or operating
the wires shall return to the person removing the building or structure, the
balance of the deposit remaining after paying the damage incident to cutting
the wires and restoring the same to their proper condition. (Ord. 16, 4-20-
1911)
2-3-3: ILLEGAL ACT:
No person engaged in moving buildings or other structures from one part of the
city to another shall cut or otherwise interfere with any telegraph, telephone,
trolley or other electric wires for the transmission of power or the poles,
guys or anchor posts thereof in the city; and any violation of this provision
is hereby declared to be an infraction. (Ord. 694-02, 8-20-2002)
2-3-4: MOVING PERMIT:
It shall be unlawful to move any tank, building or structure upon the public
streets of the city without first obtaining a moving permit and without first
satisfying all requirements and regulations established by this chapter and the
building inspector. (Ord. 53 N.S., 2-18-1935)
2-3-5: BUILDING INSPECTOR'S DUTIES:
The building inspector is hereby empowered and authorized to establish rules
and regulations governing the moving of buildings, tanks and other structures
upon the streets of the city when approved by the council. (Ord. 53 N.S., 2-18-
1935)
2-3-6: PREMISES TO BE CLEAR:
Property from which buildings are removed shall be left in a clean and orderly
condition, satisfactory to the Refuse Department Superintendent; and on failure
of any person to leave property in a clean and orderly condition, the
Superintendent is authorized to place same in proper condition at the expense
of the permittee and such expense shall operate as a forfeiture of bond
hereinafter provided or such portion thereof as may be necessary. (Ord. 53
N.S., 2-18-1935)
2-3-7: DEPOSIT REQUIRED:
Every applicant for a permit shall deposit the sum of fifty dollars ($50.00)
cash to guarantee the performance of all the conditions of this Chapter and the
regulations established pursuant thereto 1 . (Ord. 53 N.S., 2-18-1935)
 
Notes
1 1. For statute authority see Gov. C., § 38660.
CHAPTER 4
STREET IMPROVEMENTS
SECTION:
2-4-1: Purpose
2-4-2: Definitions
2-4-3: Property Subject To Improvement
2-4-4: Improvements Authorized
2-4-5: Petition By Abutting Property Owners
2-4-6: Apportioning Costs Of Improvement; Contributions
2-4-7: Requisites Of Petition
2-4-8: Installment Payments
2-4-9: Installments And Lien Agreements
2-4-10: Passage Of Petition
2-4-11: Resolution Of Intention
2-4-12: Sufficiency Of Resolution
2-4-13: Posting Of Notices
2-4-14: Mailing Of Notices
2-4-15: Hearing
2-4-16: Resolution Ordering Work
2-4-17: Computation Of Completed Cost
2-4-18: Assessment
2-4-19: Records
2-4-20: Notice Of Filing Of Assessment
2-4-21: Delivery Of Assessment To Clerk
2-4-22: Assessment Lien
2-4-23: Limitation Of Actions Testing Validity
2-4-24: Interest And Penalty For Nonpayment
2-4-25: Sale For Nonpayment
2-4-26: Redemption
2-4-1: PURPOSE:
This Chapter constitutes a separate and alternate procedure for the performance
of public work and improvements, and/or sidewalks and/or other public property
and rights of way, in which the whole or any part thereof is to be paid by
special assessment upon the lands benefited, and for the levy and collection of
such assessments. (Ord. 214 N.S., 1-17-1955)
2-4-2: DEFINITIONS:
The following words and phrases whenever used in this Chapter shall be
construed as defined in this Section.
CITY ENGINEER: Shall refer to the Street Superintendent, in lieu of its usual
meaning, whenever it is the duty of the latter to perform or have the care or
charge of any improvement undertaken under this Chapter.
INCIDENTAL EXPENSES: Shall include administrative overhead, printing and
advertising, supervision, expenses of making assessment, preparing and typing
resolutions, notice and other papers and any other expenses incidental to the
construction, completion, and inspection of the work. (Ord. 214 N.S., 1-17-
1955)
2-4-3: PROPERTY SUBJECT TO IMPROVEMENT:
All streets or property, or rights of way owned by the City or dedicated to
public use, are subject to improvements under this Chapter and the Council is
hereby vested with jurisdiction to order work to be done thereon under the
proceedings described herein. (Ord. 214 N.S., 1-17-1955)
2-4-4: IMPROVEMENTS AUTHORIZED:
The Council may under the proceedings described in this Chapter, order any
property mentioned in Section
2-4-3 hereof, to be improved or repaired, or have constructed or reconstructed
therein, over or thereon, any of the following:
   (A)   Grading And/Or Paving: Grading or paving.
   (B)   Sidewalks: The construction or reconstruction of sidewalks,
crosswalks, steps, safety zones, platforms, seats, statuary, fountains, parks,
and parkways, culverts, ridges, curbs, gutters, tunnels, subways or viaducts.
   (C)   Sewers: Sanitary sewers or instrumentalities of sanitation, together
with the necessary outlets, manholes, catch basins, disposal plants, connecting
sewers, ditches, drains, conduits, tunnels, channels or other appurtenances.
   (D)   Drainage: Drains, tunnels, sewers, conduits, culverts, and channels
for drainage purposes, together with necessary outlets, manholes, catch basins,
disposal plants, connecting sewers, ditches, drains, conduits, channels and
appurtenances,
   (E)   Lighting: Poles, posts, wires, pipes, conduits, tunnels, lamps, and
other suitable or necessary appliances for the purpose of lighting streets,
property or rights of way owned by the City.
   (F)   Fire Protection: Pipes, hydrants and appliances for fire protection.
   (G)   Flood Protection: Wall of rock or other material to protect the
streets and other property in the City from overflow by water.
   (H)   Water Supply: Wells, pumps, dams, reservoirs, storage tanks, channels,
tunnels, conduits, pipes, hydrants, meters or other appurtenances for supplying
or distributing the domestic water supply.
   (I)   Retaining Walls: Retaining walls, embankments and other structures
necessary or suitable in connection with any of the work mentioned in this
Section.
   (J)   Other Work: All other work which may be deemed necessary to improve
the whole or any portion of any street, property or right of way owned by the
City; and all other work auxiliary to any of the foregoing, which may be
required to carry out the same. (Ord. 214 N.S., 1-17-1955)
2-4-5: PETITION BY ABUTTING PROPERTY OWNERS:
Before the Council may order any work to be done under this Chapter it must be
petitioned to do so by the owners of property fronting on and/or to be
benefitted by the improvement, as in this Chapter provided, and on form
prepared by the Engineer. The petition shall contain an estimate of the cost of
the work and shall apportion such cost among the lots and land or improvements,
or both, fronting on and/or to be benefited by the improvement. (Ord. 214 N.S.,
1-17-1955)
2-4-6: APPORTIONING COSTS OF IMPROVEMENT; CONTRIBUTIONS:
   (A)   If the apportionment is made on a frontage basis, each lot or parcel
of land or residence fronting on the improvement shall be charged with its
proportionment share of the estimated cost of the work based on the total
frontage of property fronting on the improvement. If the apportionment is made
on a district basis, the Engineer shall make a diagram of the property to be
benefited by the improvement, showing the relative location of each lot or
parcel of land or residence to the improvement, and, after estimating the
benefits to be received by each such lot of land or residence from the
improvement, shall charge such lot or parcel of land or residence with the
proportion of the estimated cost which the estimated benefits accruing to such
lot or parcel of land or residence bears to the benefits accruing to the whole.
   (B)   Where proposed improvement fronts on leased property and the
improvements thereon are owned by another, such charge shall be made against
the improvements thereon; and in such event the petition hereinbefore referred
to shall be signed by the improvement owners. (Ord. 214 N.S., 1-17-1955)
   (C)   Whenever the work to be done or the improvements to be made under this
Chapter consists of paving a public highway other than an alley and/or
installing gutters, curbs, and/or sidewalks, thirty percent (30%) of the cost
of such work or improvements, as apportioned to each lot or parcel of land may
be paid by the City; provided, however, that in the case of corner lots of
land, the side of which fronts on the work to be done or the improvements to be
made, the City shall pay fifty percent (50%) of the apportioned cost of the
work or improvement. Such contribution may be made by the City entirely out of
gasoline tax funds, except that in the case of sidewalks, funds other than
gasoline tax funds shall be used. (Ord. 248, 4-7-1958)
2-4-7: REQUISITES OF PETITION:
No petition for any work to be done under this Chapter shall be considered by
the Council unless it is signed by the owners of at least sixty six and two-
thirds percent (662/3%) of the frontage of the property fronting on the
proposed improvement, or where the apportionment of the cost is made on a
district basis by the owners of at least sixty six and two-thirds percent (662/
3%) in area of the property to be benefited by the improvement, nor shall such
petition be considered by the Council unless the owners of the minimum frontage
or area of property, as the case may be, shall have paid to the Treasurer the
proportionate share of the estimated cost of the improvement charges to such
property shown in the petition, and the petition shall not be submitted to the
Council without a certificate of Engineer and Treasurer endorsed thereon
certifying that the requirements of this Section have been complied with. (Ord.
214 N.S., 1-17-1955)
Whenever sidewalks, curbs and/or gutters or other street improvements have
already been installed in a given City block, a block being the same as a block
defined as such on the official map of the City, based on the footage abutting
on or fronting on the improvement, the Council may initiate proceedings for
street improvement on the unimproved portion by: a) inviting or soliciting the
property owners to file a petition for an order of the Council directing the
improvements under the provisions of this Chapter, or b) initiating proceedings
on its own motion but otherwise complying with the provisions governing notice
of hearing protests, publication of notice, public hearing and the other
provisions of this Chapter as may be applicable. (Ord. 247, 2-3-1958)
2-4-8: INSTALLMENT PAYMENTS:
   (A)   The sum of money which petitioning property owners are required to pay
as hereinbefore provided may be paid in maximum installments of twenty percent
(20%) down (before work is started or contract let) twenty five percent (25%)
thirty (30) days after notice of completion has been filed with the Treasurer
by the Engineer, and not less than five percent (5%) each month thereafter
until fully paid, and provided that the improvement has been approved by the
Council, and provided that the Treasurer has received an installment agreement
covering the balance due and a lien agreement upon the property to be benefited
by the improvement executed by the owner thereof to secure the payment of the
balance, together with an additional charge of five dollars ($5.00) for
recording the lien agreement and administering collection of the installment
payments.
   (B)   The installment payment herein provided shall not apply where the
share or balance thereof is less than seventy five dollars ($75.00). (Ord. 214
N.S., 1-17-1955)
2-4-9: INSTALLMENT AND LIEN AGREEMENTS:
Installment and lien agreements shall be approved by the Attorney. Deferred
payments shall bear no interest before delinquency and all foreclosure costs or
other costs paid out by the City in protecting its security. (Ord. 214 N.S., 1-
17-1955)
2-4-10: PASSAGE OF PETITION:
If the Council finds that the petition is signed by the owners of all the
property fronting on the proposed improvement, and that moneys have been
deposited either in full or by the installment methods as hereinbefore
provided, it may pass a resolution ordering the proposed improvement and no
further proceedings shall be necessary under this Chapter. (Ord. 214 N.S., 1-
17-1955)
2-4-11: RESOLUTION OF INTENTION:
If the Council finds and determines by unanimous vote, that the petition is
signed by the owners of not less than sixty six and two-thirds percent (662/3%)
of the frontage or area of the property fronting on or to be improved by the
proposed improvement, as the case may be, that the required payments have
either been paid in full or by installments as herein provided, and that public
convenience and necessity require such improvement, it may pass a resolution of
intention to do the proposed work, describing the character of work to be done
and identifying its location. (Ord. 214 N.S., 1-17-1955)
2-4-12: SUFFICIENCY OF RESOLUTION:
The resolution of intention shall be deemed sufficient if it stated in general
terms the class of work proposed and the general location of same and refers to
the specifications and detailed drawings on file with the City. In addition the
resolution of intention shall contain a notice of time and place, which time
shall not be less than ten (10) days nor more than thirty (30) days from the
date of passage of resolution, and at which time any person may appear and show
cause why the proposed improvement should not be carried out. The resolution
shall be published at least once in a newspaper of general circulation not less
than five (5) days prior to the date of the public hearing set forth in the
resolution of intention. (Ord. 214 N.S., 1-17-1955)
2-4-13: POSTING OF NOTICES:
After the adoption of the resolution of intention and not less than five (5)
days before the day set for hearing protests, the Engineer shall cause to be
conspicuously posted along the line of the contemplated work at not more than
three hundred feet (300') apart but not less than three (3) in all notices of
the passage of the resolution, but no proceedings shall be held invalid if this
Section is substantially complied with. (Ord. 214 N.S., 1-17-1955)
2-4-14: MAILING OF NOTICES:
The Clerk shall cause to be mailed to each lot owner or parcel of land at the
address shown by the last assessment rolls a notice of the passage of the
resolution of intention not less than five (5) days before the day set for
hearing protests. Such notice shall be conspicuously headed "Notice of
Assessment", and described briefly the work proposed. Affidavits of
publication, posting and mailing shall be filed in the office of the Clerk.
(Ord. 214 N.S., 1-17-1955)
2-4-15: HEARING:
The Council shall proceed to hear all protests at the hearing or adjournments
thereof and its decision shall be final. (Ord. 214 N.S., 1-17-1955)
2-4-16: RESOLUTION ORDERING WORK:
If no objections or protests have been made up to or prior to the hearing or if
same have been found by the Council to be insufficient and denied, the Council
shall immediately thereupon acquire jurisdiction to order the proposed work to
be done and may pass a resolution ordering such in accordance with the
provisions of this Chapter. (Ord. 214 N.S., 1-17-1955)
2-4-17: COMPUTATION OF COMPLETED COST:
Upon completion of the work, the Engineer shall compute the actual cost
thereof, including incidental expenses. (Ord. 214 N.S., 1-17-1955)
2-4-18: ASSESSMENT:
Those lots or parcels of land fronting on or benefited by the improvement, the
owner of which have not made payments to or entered into installment and lien
agreements with the City as provided herein, shall be assessed their
proportionate share of the actual cost of the improvement. (Ord. 214 N.S., 1-
17-1955)
2-4-19: RECORDS:
The Engineer shall provide a suitable record book entitled "Assessments and
Liens for Public Improvements". Entries shall be made in such book the name of
the owner of the property assessed, a brief description of the improvement, a
description of the property assessed as the same appears on the Assessor's
rolls, the amount assessed against the property, the date of assessment, the
penalty for delinquency, and the payment thereof, the total amount charged
against such property at the date of sale thereof, the date of sale, the name
of the purchaser at the sale, the date of the redemption, the name of the
redemptioner, the amount paid to redeem, and the date of deed or certificate of
sale to the City. (Ord. 214 N.S., 1-17-1955)
2-4-20: NOTICE OF FILING OF ASSESSMENT:
After the assessments have been entered in the record book as provided in the
preceding Section, the Engineer shall give notice of the filing of assessment.
Such notice shall be published at least once a week for two (2) weeks in a
newspaper of general circulation, and shall state that any property owner
affected by, or interested in, the assessment or proceeding resulting in the
same, may file a protest in writing with the Clerk within thirty (30) days
after the first publication of the notice. Such published notice shall state
that the assessment shall become delinquent if not paid within sixty (60) days
after the first publication of the notice, and that there shall be added to the
assessment a penalty of ten percent (10%) thereof, plus interest at seven
percent (7%) from date of delinquency. (Ord. 214 N.S., 1-17-1955)
2-4-21: DELIVERY OF ASSESSMENT TO CLERK:
After the Council has passed upon all objections as heretofore provided or time
for filing protests has expired, the Engineer shall deliver to the Clerk the
record of assessment. (Ord. 214 N.S., 1-17-1955)
2-4-22: ASSESSMENT LIEN:
The amount of the assessment made in accordance with the provisions of this
Chapter shall become a lien against the property so assessed as of the date of
the entry in the record book hereinbefore provided, and shall thereupon become
due and payable to the City. No lien herein provided for shall be extinguished
until the amount thereof is paid in full. (Ord. 214 N.S., 1-17-1955)
2-4-23: LIMITATION OF ACTIONS TESTING VALIDITY:
Any action contesting the validity of an assessment made under the provisions
of this Chapter must be preceded by an appeal to the Council, and must be
commenced within thirty (30) days after determination of the Council on such
appeal. (Ord. 214 N.S., 1-17-1955)
2-4-24: INTEREST AND PENALTY FOR NONPAYMENT:
If the assessment is not paid within sixty (60) days after the first
publication of the notice of assessment, the assessment shall become delinquent
and a ten percent (10%) penalty added thereto, plus interest at seven percent
(7%) from the date of delinquency. (Ord. 214 N.S., 1-17-1955)
2-4-25: SALE FOR NONPAYMENT:
In the event the assessment is not paid within one year after it has become
payable, the Clerk shall publish a notice in a newspaper in the City, setting
forth the fact that the property on which the assessment is a lien was
assessed, name of the owner, amount of assessment, penalty and interest and
that on the first Monday in the month next succeeding such publication, the
property in question will, at the hour of ten o'clock (10:00) A.M. of the day,
at the office of the Clerk, by operation of law, be sold to the City for the
amount of the assessment lien, plus penalty, interest and cost of publication.
The Clerk shall cause to be mailed at least fifteen (15) days before the sale,
a copy of such notice to the owner of each lot or parcel of property to be
sold. On the date of sale the property shall be sold and the Clerk shall enter
in the record book, the date of such sale, the amount for which the property
was sold, and that the property was sold to the City. (Ord. 214 N.S., 1-17-
1955)
2-4-26: REDEMPTION:
Property sold for unpaid assessment may be redeemed at any time within one year
from the date of sale by paying the City the amount for which the property was
sold, plus interest at the rate of seven percent (7%) from the date of sale. If
the property remains unredeemed at the expiration of one year, the Clerk shall
execute a deed to the City, with appropriate recitals in such deed. (Ord. 214
N.S., 1-17-1955)
CHAPTER 5
PUBLIC STREETS
SECTION:
2-5-1: Construction Of Sidewalks, Curbs And Paving; Permit Required
2-5-1-1: Maintenance And Repair Of Sidewalks
2-5-2: Forms
2-5-3: Work By Private Contractor; Inspection Fee
2-5-4: Public Safety
2-5-5: Use Of Streets For Laying Pipes
2-5-6: Deposit Required; Bond
2-5-7: Trenches
2-5-8: Openings
2-5-9: Permit Required
2-5-10: Refilling Trenches
2-5-11: Hearings
2-5-12: Liability
2-5-13: Public Service Corporation
2-5-14: Water And Gas Pipes
2-5-15: Map; Public Service Corporation
2-5-16: Exceptions To Chapter
2-5-17: Rules And Regulations
2-5-1: CONSTRUCTION OF SIDEWALKS, CURBS AND PAVING; PERMIT REQUIRED:
Whenever the Council or Superintendent of Streets shall grant permission to any
person to grade, pave, sidewalk, curb, lay sewers or otherwise make any
permanent improvements on, under, over or across the streets, alleys, or other
public places of the City, by private contract, such person shall immediately
after permission shall have been granted apply to the Superintendent of Streets
for a permit to do such work, which written permit from the Superintendent of
Streets shall be obtained before any of the work sought to be done shall be
commenced. Before issuing such permit, the Superintendent of Streets shall
require the person applying therefor to deposit in the office of the
Superintendent of Streets a sum sufficient to cover all fees of the
Superintendent of Streets and the Engineer incurred or to be incurred in
connection therewith, and upon the completion of the proposed work if any
portion of the deposit so made shall remain in excess of the fees herein
provided, such excess shall, upon the completion of the proposed work, be
refunded to the person depositing the same, and such portion of the deposit as
is required to cover the fees herein provided shall, upon the completion of the
work, be paid by the Superintendent of Streets into the Treasury. (Ord. 66 N.S,
3-1-1937)
The deposit required and set forth above shall not be required of bona fide
public utilities serving consumers in the City; but such waiver of deposit
shall not be construed to relieve public utilities from the requirement to
secure a permit from the Superintendent of Streets, or otherwise complying with
the requirements of this Chapter when proposing to make excavations or other
work on the streets and alleys of the City. (Ord. 139, N.S., 2-4-1946)
2-5-1-1: MAINTENANCE AND REPAIR OF SIDEWALKS:
   (A)   Authority: Anything in this Chapter to the contrary notwithstanding,
the maintenance and repair of sidewalk areas and the making, confirming and
collection of assessments for the cost and expenses of said maintenance and
repair may be done, and the proceedings therefor may be had and taken in
accordance with this Section and the procedure therefor provided in chapter 22
of division 7, part 3, of the Streets and Highways Code of the State of
California as the same is now in effect or may hereafter be amended. In the
event of any conflict between the provisions of said chapter 22, of division 7,
part 3, of the Streets and Highways Code of the State of California and this
Chapter, the Streets and Highways Codes shall control this Chapter.
   (B)   Responsibility: The owners of lots or portions of lots adjacent to or
fronting on any portion of a sidewalk area between the property line of the
lots and the street line, including planters, sidewalks, curbs and gutters, and
persons in possession of such lots by virtue of any permit or right shall
repair and maintain such sidewalk areas, including a charge for the City's
costs of inspection and administration whenever the City awards a contract for
such maintenance and repair under this Section or handling of any lien placed
on the property due to failure of the property owner to promptly pay such
assessments.
   (C)   Applicability: For the purpose of this section, maintenance and repair
of sidewalk area shall include, but not be limited to, maintenance and repair
of surfaces including grinding, removal and replacement of sidewalks, repair
and maintenance of curbs and gutters, removal and filling or replacement of
parking strips, removal of weeds and/or debris, tree root pruning and
installing root barriers, trimming of shrubs and/or ground cover and trimming
shrubs within the area between the property line of the adjacent property and
the street pavement line, including parking strips and curbs, so that the
sidewalk area will remain in a condition that is not dangerous to property or
to persons using the sidewalk in a reasonable manner and will be in a condition
which will not interfere with the public convenience in the use of said
sidewalk area.
   (D)   Extension Of Time: Notwithstanding the provisions of section 5614 of
the state Streets and Highways Code, the director of public works may in his or
her discretion, and for sufficient cause, extend the period within which
required maintenance and repair of sidewalk areas must commence by a period of
not to exceed seventy four (74) days from the time the notice referred to in
said section 5614 is given. (Ord. 653-97, 6-17-1997)
   (E)   Performance: Property owners that are noticed pursuant to this section
from the effective date hereof through June 30, 2009, may request the city to
perform the required work. Upon receiving such a request, the city will
consider providing the labor to complete the work, contingent upon budget and
staff available. If the city performs the work, the property owner shall
provide the repair materials. Other property owners may request sidewalk repair
work, and their requests will be considered after any "noticed work" dependent
upon budget and staff available for such work. Within twenty (20) days of
receiving such request the city shall provide a response to the property owner.
(Ord. 712-04, 5-4-2004)
   (F)   Liability For Injuries To Public: The property owner required by this
section to maintain and repair the sidewalk area shall owe a duty to members of
the public to keep and maintain the sidewalk area in a safe and nondangerous
condition. If, as a result of the failure of any property owner to maintain the
sidewalk area in a nondangerous condition as required by this section, any
person suffers injury or damage to person or property, the property owner shall
be liable to such person for the resulting damages or injury. (Ord. 653-97, 6-
17-1997)
2-5-2: FORMS:
For the purpose of this chapter it is hereby made the duty of the
superintendent of streets to have and prepare and keep in his office the
necessary blanks for such permits, provided for herein, and also a book in
which a record shall be kept of all permits issued. The engineer shall keep a
copy of the plans and specifications on file in his office and file a copy of
the specifications in the office of the clerk. (Ord. 66 N.S., 3-1-1937)
2-5-3: WORK BY PRIVATE CONTRACTOR; INSPECTION FEE:
All work done by private contract must be under the supervision and direction
of the superintendent of streets or an inspector appointed by him, and in all
respects shall comply with the plans and profiles on file in the office of the
engineer and specifications on file in the office of the clerk. No inspection
will be made unless twenty four (24) hours' notice has been given by the
engineer that an inspection is desired. The minimum fee for any inspection
under the provisions of this chapter shall be one dollar ($1.00).
The person or contractor doing such work for which such permit shall have been
granted shall not collect from the property owners, his agents or assigns, any
compensation for any part or portion of the work so done until all of the
incidental expenses for surveying, and inspection have been paid, nor shall the
compensation be collected until the superintendent of streets shall have
accepted the work in writing, which acceptance shall be the only notice to the
property owner that the work was done to the satisfaction of the city through
its street superintendent. (Ord. 66 N.S., 3-1-1937)
2-5-4: PUBLIC SAFETY:
All work in the public right of way shall be completed in a safe manner.
Barricades, delineators, lights, or other appropriate traffic control devices
shall be employed to safely control pedestrians and vehicular traffic at the
construction site. Vehicular traffic controls shall be employed pursuant to
California department of transportation traffic manual. In the event that
proper safety precautions are not employed, the superintendent of streets shall
notify those responsible for the construction who shall take immediate
corrective action. If immediate corrective action is not taken, the
superintendent of streets shall take whatever corrective action is necessary
for the safety of the public. It shall be the duty of the superintendent of
streets to charge any costs related to the city's corrective action against any
and all deposits then in the treasury or that may thereafter come into the
treasury belonging to the person required by this chapter to make such
deposits. In the event no deposit has been made, the responsible party shall be
billed directly. (Ord. 469, 7-5-1983)
2-5-5: USE OF STREETS FOR LAYING PIPES:
It shall be unlawful for any person to lay down pipes or conduits in the public
streets or thoroughfares of the City, to open or tear up any roadway, street or
thoroughfare therein, except under the direction of the Superintendent of
Streets and in accordance with the rules and regulations adopted by the
Council. (Ord. 66 N.S., 3-1-1937)
2-5-6: DEPOSIT REQUIRED; BOND:
It shall be unlawful for any person above referred to, to open any public
street, or thoroughfare of the City until he shall have deposited with the
Superintendent of Streets a sum equal to one dollar ($1.00) per square foot of
surface of the excavation to be made in the streets or thoroughfares, or other
public places which are paved with asphaltum, bituminous rock, brick, basalt
block, oiled macadam, or other hard surface having substance of permanent
character; a sum equal to fifty cents ($0.50) per square foot of surface and
the excavation or excavations, to be made in such streets or thoroughfares, or
other public places which are oiled and screened or unimproved, provided
further that any person intending to make excavations in public streets,
thoroughfares or other public places may make and maintain a general deposit
with the City of five hundred dollars ($500.00), such person shall not be
required to make the special deposit hereinbefore provided for, provided,
however, that should the special deposit above provided for exceed five hundred
dollars ($500.00), that a corporate surety bond may be tendered in lieu of a
cash bond to cover the amount in excess of five hundred dollars ($500.00), and
upon the tendering of the bond the Superintendent of Streets is hereby
authorized to accept the same in lieu of the additional cash bond, or in his
discretion to refuse the same and require a cash bond for the full amount.
(Ord. 66 N.S., 3-1-1937)
2-5-7: TRENCHES:
Whenever any person desires to open trenches in the public streets or
thoroughfares for the purpose of placing therein main or lateral pipes or
conduits, other than lateral sewers, such person shall make application and
obtain a permit in writing from the Superintendent of Streets not less than
twenty four (24) hours in advance of his desire to so open trenches in the
streets or thoroughfares, except in case of emergency, in which case written
notice shall be given within twenty four (24) hours after any such opening. The
application for the permit shall give the names of the streets in which
trenches are to be opened and the name of the cross streets between which said
trenches are to be made. (Ord. 66 N.S., 3-1-1937)
2-5-8: OPENINGS:
Notification of the correct location of any opening made for the purpose of
what is termed prospecting shall be given the Superintendent of Streets at all
times, except when such openings become a part of the main trench, within
twenty four (24) hours, approximately, after opening. (Ord. 66 N.S., 3-1-1937)
2-5-9: PERMIT REQUIRED:
In the application for a permit to open trenches in streets for service pipes
and repairs, the location shall be described by giving the name of the street
and the number of the building opposite each opening, or between two (2)
opposite given numbers, and in case there are no numbers by giving the distance
from such openings to the property line at the nearest street crossing.
A written notification that work has commenced, in the case of all main or
service trenches, shall be given to the Superintendent of Streets on the day
that work is begun.
No trench shall be opened in any graded street or thoroughfare for the purpose
of laying pipes or conduits more than four hundred feet (400') in advance of
pipe or conduit placed therein, except in cases of emergency or by consent of
the Superintendent of Streets. All excavated material shall be piled along the
trench leaving clear an area of at least one foot (1') on each side thereof.
The surface material shall be piled on one side of the trench and the subsoil
on the other side of the trench. If a crossing street intersects the
excavation, a driveway shall at all times be maintained. (Ord. 66 N.S., 3-1-
1937)
2-5-10: REFILLING TRENCHES:
As soon as repairs or alterations to existing pipes or conduits have been made,
or as soon as new construction work has been finished, notification in writing
shall be given to the Superintendent of Streets and for a period of forty eight
(48) hours after such written notification has been received by the
Superintendent of Streets the person who has made the excavation must maintain
proper barricades and lights and assume full responsibility for all
excavations. After receiving written notification, as aforesaid, it shall be
the duty of the Superintendent of Streets to backfill all trenches and
resurface the same.
The Superintendent of Streets shall make out in duplicate a bill for the cost
of retrenching and resurfacing each excavation and shall deliver one copy
thereof to the Clerk and one copy to the person who has made such excavation.
If such person does not pay to the Superintendent of Streets the amount of said
bill within thirty (30) days, it shall be the duty of the Superintendent of
Streets to charge the cost of the work against any and all deposits then in the
Treasury or that may thereafter come into the Treasury belonging to the person
required by this Chapter to make such deposits. If the work has been done under
and by virtue of a general deposit and the depositor is debtor to the City for
work theretofore performed, the depositor shall thereafter not be permitted to
make any excavation or excavations in the streets until he shall have deposited
the amount required to restore the general deposit to the sum of five hundred
dollars ($500.00). The balance of any special deposit may be withdrawn by the
depositor after the Superintendent of Streets has delivered to the Clerk the
bill for the cost of work chargeable against the special deposit. (Ord. 66
N.S., 3-1-1937)
2-5-11: HEARINGS:
Within fifteen (15) days after a depositor has received notice in writing of
the cost of any work chargeable against a deposit, such depositor may file with
the Clerk a protest in writing addressed to the Council, stating briefly any
objections he may have to the action of the Superintendent of Streets in making
repairs, doing any work under the provisions of this Chapter, or in drawing
upon any deposit. The Clerk shall refer such protest to the Council at its next
regular meeting, whereupon the Council shall fix a time for the hearing of such
protest. At such meeting, or at any subsequent meeting to which the hearing
shall be postponed, the Council shall proceed to hear such protest and shall
make such order in the premises as it shall deem just and equitable, and its
determination as to whether any work done by the Superintendent of Streets was
properly chargeable to the depositor, and if so its determination of the amount
properly so chargeable shall be final and conclusive. (Ord. 66 N.S., 3-1-1937)
2-5-12: LIABILITY:
Nothing in this Chapter shall be construed to relieve any person herein
referred to from liability for accident or damages caused by failure or neglect
to properly guard, light or protect any openings in public streets or
thoroughfares for a period of forty eight (48) hours after the Superintendent
of Streets shall have received written notification of the completion of the
work. (Ord. 66 N.S., 3-1-1937)
2-5-13: PUBLIC SERVICE CORPORATION:
Anything in this Chapter to the contrary notwithstanding, authority is hereby
granted to the Superintendent of Streets to permit any public service
corporation to do the retrenching and resurfacing of any excavation made by it,
provided that such public service corporation has complied with the provisions
of this Chapter and at all times maintains in the Treasury a general deposit of
not less than five hundred dollars ($500.00), and in addition thereto such
further cash deposit or bond required by this Chapter, as indemnity against any
damages that it may cause to the public streets of the City by virtue of any
excavations so made by it. Such general deposit must be maintained at the sum
of five hundred dollars ($500.00) and such further cash deposit or surety bond
as may be required by this Chapter, for a period of not less than three (3)
years after completion of all excavations and resurfacing made by such public
service corporation. Before any public service corporation shall be allowed by
the Superintendent of Streets to do its own retrenching or resurfacing it shall
make and file with the City a written statement and agreement that it will
refill all trenches to the satisfaction of the Superintendent of Streets and
will resurface the same to as good condition as before said excavation was made
and with similar materials and that the work of refilling and resurfacing the
trenches will be commenced within thirty (30) days after the completion of the
work in any one block in which the trenches were opened, and prosecute the work
diligently to completion.
In the event that the public service corporation fails to commence refilling of
any trench opened by it, within the time herein provided, the public service
corporation shall forfeit to the City the cash deposit by any public service
corporation as indemnity against damages that may be caused to the public
streets by reason of any excavation made by it, and should there be an
additional surety bond, the corporation and the bondsmen shall be liable for
the excess damage of the amount of the bond.
Should such public service corporation fail to commence refilling and
resurfacing as herein provided, the Superintendent of Streets may immediately
commence the work of refilling and resurfacing and complete the same in the
manner provided for in this Chapter.
If at any time within a period of one year the pavement or surface of the
streets over said openings shall become depressed or broken, natural wear of
the surface of improper work of some other person for whom the street was
opened will upon written notice from the Superintendent of Streets immediately
proceed to repair and restore the pavement in a proper and workmanlike manner
to the satisfaction of the Superintendent of Streets. And in case the pavement
is not completely restored within thirty (30) days after such notice has been
given, the Superintendent of Streets may do the work at the expense of the
delinquent person, after giving the person twenty four (24) hours final notice,
and that the cost of the work may be deducted from any deposit made by the
person or may be collected by suit, or otherwise.
If any person, or public service corporation is permitted by the Superintendent
of Streets, under the provisions of this Chapter, to do its own retrenching and
resurfacing, an Inspector shall be employed by the City upon the work and the
cost of such inspection shall be a proper charge against the public service
corporation and the sums shall be paid by it to the City on demand, and in
default of such payment may be deducted from any deposit of such public service
corporation in the Treasury. (Ord. 66 N.S., 3-1-1937)
2-5-14: WATER AND GAS PIPES:
No pipes carrying water or gas shall be laid less than thirty inches (30")
below the official grade of any street, except by permit of the Council. (Ord.
66 N.S., 3-1-1937)
2-5-15: MAP; PUBLIC SERVICE CORPORATION:
Every public service corporation maintaining pipes or conduits in the streets
of the City shall file with the Council during the month of January of each
year, a map (blue line print on cloth) indicating the size and location of each
pipe or conduit owned and maintained by such public service corporation in the
streets of the City, provided, however, that after the public corporation has
in the first instance filed such map; it may thereafter in lieu of filing a new
map each year, revise the map on file so as to show changes and extensions.
(Ord. 66 N.S., 3-1-1937)
2-5-16: EXCEPTIONS TO CHAPTER:
The provisions of Sections
2-5-8 through
2-5-15 of this Chapter shall not apply to the excavations made for main or
lateral sewers, either under the provisions of a contract entered into by the
Superintendent of Streets or under the authority of any street improvement act
of the State of California, or under the provisions of a contract made by or
with the consent of the City where the specifications for the work provided for
retrenching or resurfacing by the contractor. (Ord. 66 N.S., 3-1-1937)
2-5-17: RULES AND REGULATIONS:
The Superintendent of Streets is hereby directed and authorized to establish
such rules and regulations as, in his judgement, he may deem incidentally
necessary and convenient to carry out the provisions and intent of this
Chapter. (Ord. 66 N.S., 3-1-1937)
CHAPTER 6
FENCES; WALKWAYS
SECTION:
2-6-1: Permit Required; Insurance
2-6-1: PERMIT REQUIRED; INSURANCE:
Any person who intends to use a public street, sidewalk, alley, or any other
City property or portion thereof for the purpose of erecting a public
protection fence, railing or walkway in connection with any construction
project; or who intends to store construction materials, or who intends to
perform any work on or from any such property shall first procure street use
permit by making application therefor to the City, paying a street use permit
fee in the sum of two dollars fifty cents ($2.50) and filing a certificate of
liability insurance and property damage insurance with the City in the
following minimum amounts:
   (A)   Bodily injury or death, one person twenty five thousand dollars
($25,000.00).
   (B)   Bodily injury or death, two (2) or more persons fifty thousand dollars
($50,000.00).
   (C)   Property damage to City property or others ten thousand dollars
($10,000.00).
The requirements of this Section may be waived in the case of an owner-builder
desiring to make improvements in a residential area when in the opinion of the
Building Inspector no particular hazard exists. (Ord. 217, 4-18-1955)
CHAPTER 7
TELEVISION OR RADIO POLES
SECTION:
2-7-1: Erection
2-7-2: Duty Of The Electrical Inspector
2-7-3: Lead-In Cables
2-7-1: ERECTION:
Television or radio poles or masts installed or erected on or near buildings
shall be constructed of substantial material and sufficiently rigid to prevent
breaking or bending.
All masts or poles shall be guyed by galvanized wire of not less than twelve
(12) gauge, or its equivalent in stranded or other multiple wire. There shall
be not less than three (3) guys properly anchored at three (3) anchor points,
and in a manner satisfactory to the Building and Electrical Inspectors and in
addition shall conform to the regulations of the Power Company that have been
approved by the Public Utilities Commission of the State. (Ord. 171 N.S., 3-6-
1950)
2-7-2: DUTY OF THE ELECTRICAL INSPECTOR:
The Electrical Inspector shall inspect all poles and masts installed and upon
payments of the inspection fee provided in the Electrical Code shall issue a
certificate of inspection. (Ord. 171 N.S., 3-6-1950)
2-7-3: LEAD-IN CABLES:
Lead-in cables shall be grounded with a lightning arrestor, grounded to a
common ground of not less than eight (8) gauge copper wire. (Ord. 171 N.S., 3-
6-1950)
CHAPTER 8
INTERFERENCE WITH GAS LINE
SECTION:
2-8-1: Unlawful To Turn Gas On
2-8-1: UNLAWFUL TO TURN GAS ON:
It shall be unlawful for any person, excepting an authorized agent engaged in
the business of furnishing or supplying gas and whose service pipes supply or
connect with the particular premises to turn on or remove, or reconnect gas
service in or on any premises where and when gas service is not at the time
being rendered. (Ord. 121 N.S., 4-19-1943)
CHAPTER 9
STREET GRADES
SECTION:
2-9-1: Street Grades On File
2-9-1: STREET GRADES ON FILE:
The street grades of the City shall be kept on file in the office of the
Engineer. (1963 Code)
CHAPTER 10
UNDERGROUND UTILITY DISTRICTS
SECTION:
2-10-1: Definitions
2-10-2: Public Hearing By Council
2-10-3: Council May Designate Underground Utility Districts
2-10-4: Unlawful Acts
2-10-5: Exception, Emergency Or Unusual Circumstances
2-10-6: Other Exceptions
2-10-7: Notice To Property Owners And Utility Companies
2-10-8: Responsibility Of Utility Companies
2-10-9: Responsibility Of Property Owners
2-10-10: Responsibility Of City
2-10-11: Extension Of Time
2-10-1: DEFINITIONS:
Whenever in this Chapter the words and phrases hereinafter in this Section
defined are used, they shall have the respective meanings assigned to them in
the following definitions:
COMMISSION: The Public Utilities Commission of the State of California.
POLES, OVERHEAD WIRES AND ASSOCIATED OVERHEAD STRUCTURES: Poles, towers,
supports, wires, conductors, guys, stubs, platforms, crossarms, braces,
transformers, insulators, cutouts, switches, communication circuits,
appliances, attachments and appurtenances located above ground within a
district and used or useful in supplying electric, communication or similar or
associated service.
UNDERGROUND UTILITY DISTRICT OR DISTRICT: That area in the City within which
poles, overhead wires, and associated overhead structures are prohibited as
such area is described in a resolution adopted pursuant to the provisions of
Section
2-10-3 of this Chapter.
UTILITY: Includes all persons or entities supplying electric, communication or
similar or associated service by means of electrical materials or devices.
(Ord. 340, 11-4-1968)
2-10-2: PUBLIC HEARING BY COUNCIL:
The Council may from time to time call public hearings to ascertain whether the
public necessity, health, safety or welfare requires the removal of poles,
overhead wires and associated overhead structures within designated areas of
the City and the underground installation of wires and facilities for supplying
electric, communication, or similar or associated service. The Clerk shall
notify all affected property owners as shown on the last equalized assessment
roll and utilities concerned by mail of the time and place of such hearings at
least ten (10) days prior to the date thereof. Each such hearing shall be open
to the public and may be continued from time to time. At each such hearing all
persons interested shall be given an opportunity to be heard. The decision of
the Council shall be final and conclusive. (Ord. 340, 11-4-1968)
2-10-3: COUNCIL MAY DESIGNATE UNDERGROUND UTILITY DISTRICTS:
If, after any such public hearing the Council finds that the public necessity,
health, safety or welfare requires such removal and such underground
installation within a designated area, the Council shall, by resolution,
declare such designated area an underground utility district and order such
removal and underground installation. Such resolution shall include a
description of the area comprising such district and shall fix the time within
which such removal and underground installation shall be accomplished and
within which affected property owners must be ready to receive underground
service. A reasonable time shall be allowed for such removal and underground
installation, having due regard for the availability of labor, materials, and
equipment necessary for such removal and for the installation of such
underground facilities as may be occasioned thereby. (Ord. 340, 11-4-1968)
2-10-4: UNLAWFUL ACTS:
Whenever the Council creates an underground utility district and orders the
removal of poles, overhead wires and associated overhead structures therein as
provided in Section 3 hereof, it shall be unlawful for any person or utility to
erect, construct, place, keep, maintain, continue, employ or operate poles,
overhead wires and associated overhead structures in the district after the
date when said overhead facilities are required to be removed by such
resolution, except as said overhead facilities may be required to furnish
service to an owner or occupant of property prior to the performance by such
owner or occupant of the underground work necessary for such owner or occupant
to continue to receive utility service as provided in Section
2-10-9 hereof, and for such reasonable time required to remove said facilities
after said work has been performed, and except as otherwise provided in this
Chapter. (Ord. 340, 11-4-1968)
2-10-5: EXCEPTION, EMERGENCY OR UNUSUAL CIRCUMSTANCES:
Notwithstanding the provisions of this Chapter, overhead facilities may be
installed and maintained for a period not to exceed ten (10) days, without
authority of the Council 1 in order to provide emergency service. The Council
may deem appropriate, in cases of unusual circumstances, without discrimination
as to any person or utility, to erect, construct, install, maintain, use or
operate poles, overhead wires and associated overhead structures. (Ord. 340,
11-4-1968)
 
Notes
1 1. If the City prefers, this could be the Director of Public Works or some
  other appropriate City official.
2-10-6: OTHER EXCEPTIONS:
This Chapter and any resolution adopted pursuant to Section
2-10-3 hereof shall, unless otherwise provided in such resolution, not apply to
the following types of facilities:
   (A)   Any municipal facilities or equipment installed under the supervision
and to the satisfaction of the City Engineer.
   (B)   Poles or electroliers used exclusively for street lighting.
   (C)   Overhead wires (exclusive of supporting structures) crossing any
portion of a district within which overhead wires have been prohibited, or
connecting to buildings on the perimeter of a district, when such wires
originate in an area from which poles, overhead wires and associated overhead
structures are not prohibited.
   (D)   Poles, overhead wires and associated overhead structures used for the
transmission of electric energy at nominal voltages in excess of thirty four
thousand five hundred (34,500) volts.
   (E)   Overhead wires attached to the exterior surface of a building by means
of a bracket or other fixture and extending from one location on the building
to another location on the same building or to an adjacent building without
crossing any public street.
   (F)   Antennae, associated equipment and supporting structures, used by a
utility for furnishing communication services.
   (G)   Equipment appurtenant to underground facilities, such as surface
mounted transformers, pedestal mounted terminal boxes and meter cabinets, and
concealed ducts.
   (H)   Temporary poles, overhead wires and associated overhead structures
used or to be used in conjunction with construction projects. (Ord. 340, 11-4-
1968)
2-10-7: NOTICE TO PROPERTY OWNERS AND UTILITY COMPANIES:
Within ten (10) days after the effective date of a resolution adopted pursuant
to Section
2-10-3 hereof, the Clerk shall notify all affected utilities and all persons
owning real property within the district created by said resolution of the
adoption thereof. Said Clerk shall further notify such affected property owners
of the necessity that, if they or any person occupying such property desire to
continue to receive electric, communication, or similar or associated service,
they or such occupant shall provide all necessary facility changes on their
premises so as to receive such service from the lines of the supplying utility
or utilities at a new location, subject to applicable rules, regulations and
tariffs of the respective utility or utilities on file with the Commission.
Notification by the Clerk shall be made by mailing a copy of the resolution
adopted pursuant to Section
2-10-3, together with a copy of this Chapter, to affected property owners as
such are shown on the last equalized assessment roll and to the affected
utilities. (Ord. 340, 11-4-1968)
2-10-8: RESPONSIBILITY OF UTILITY COMPANIES:
If underground construction is necessary to provide utility service within a
district created by any resolution adopted pursuant to Section
2-10-3 hereof, the supplying utility shall furnish that portion of the
conduits, conductors and associated equipment required to be furnished by it
under its applicable rules, regulations and tariffs on file with the
Commission. (Ord. 340, 11-4-1968)
2-10-9: RESPONSIBILITY OF PROPERTY OWNERS 1 :
   (A)   Every person owning, operating, leasing, occupying or renting a
building or structure within a district shall perform construction and provide
that portion of the service connection on his property between the facilities
referred to in Section
2-10-8 and the termination facility on or within said building or structure
being served, all in accordance with applicable rules, regulations and tariffs
of the respective utility or utilities on file with the Commission.
   (B)   In the event any person owning, operating, leasing, occupying or
renting said property does not comply with the provisions of subsection (A) of
this Section within the time provided for in the resolution enacted pursuant to
Section
2-10-3 hereof, the City Engineer shall post written notice on the property
being served and thirty (30) days thereafter shall have the authority to order
the disconnection and removal of any and all overhead service wires and
associated facilities supplying utility service to said property. (Ord. 340,
11-4-1968)
 
Notes
  1. This Section is provided in the alternative. The first part authorizes the
  City Engineer to order the disconnection and removal of all overhead wires
1 after the period of compliance has passed. The second part authorizes the
  City Engineer to do all required undergrounding work on noncomplying
  property, said work then being a lien on the property.
2-10-10: RESPONSIBILITY OF CITY:
The City shall remove at its own expense all City owned equipment from all
poles required to be removed hereunder in ample time to enable the owner or
user of such poles to remove the same within the time specified in the
resolution enacted pursuant to Section
2-10-3 of this Chapter. (Ord. 340, 11-4-1968)
2-10-11: EXTENSION OF TIME:
In the event that any act required by this Chapter or by a resolution adopted
pursuant to Section
2-10-3 of this Chapter cannot be performed within the time provided on account
of shortage of materials, war, restraint by public authorities, strikes, labor
disturbances, civil disobedience, or any other circumstances beyond the control
of the actor, then the time within which such act will be accomplished shall be
extended for a period equivalent to the time of such limitation. (Ord. 340, 11-
4-1968)
CHAPTER 11
ENVIRONMENTAL QUALITY
   (Rep. by Ord. 496, 8-7-1984)
CHAPTER 12
ENCROACHMENTS
SECTION:
2-12-1: Definitions
2-12-2: Permit Requirements, Revocation
2-12-3: Removal After Notice
2-12-4: Violation, Penalty
2-12-5: Fees
2-12-1: DEFINITIONS:
ENCROACHMENT: Any tower, pole, pole line, pipe, pipeline, billboard, stand or
building, or any structure, object of any kind or character not particularly
mentioned in this Section or any special event which intrudes into, upon, over
or under, or invades any property belonging to the City, or intrudes into,
upon, over or under, or invades any street, avenue, lane, alley, sidewalk,
court, place, public way, property rights of way now open or dedicated or which
may hereafter by opened or dedicated to public use within the City, but does
not necessarily prevent public travel.
SPECIAL EVENT: Any street festival, sidewalk sale, community sponsored activity
or community approved activity. (Ord. 667-99, 3-2-1999)
2-12-2: PERMIT REQUIREMENTS, REVOCATION:
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to place, erect or maintain, or to
permit the placing, erection, maintenance or existence of any "encroachment",
as defined in Section
2-12-1 of this Chapter, upon, over or under any street, avenue, lane, alley,
sidewalk, court, place, public way, property, or rights of way, now open or
dedicated or which may hereafter be opened or dedicated to public use within
the City, or upon, over or under any property belonging to the City, without an
encroachment permit issued by the City as provided in this Section or, if the
encroachment is by a pipeline for conveyance of petroleum products without a
license agreement therefor approved by the City Council.
   (B)   Any person desiring to place, erect or maintain any such
"encroachment" as defined in Section
2-12-1 of this Chapter shall make application for a permit at the office of the
Director of Public Works. Such application shall contain the name and address
of the applicant, a description of the proposed encroachment and the proposed
location thereof, the period of time for which such encroachment is proposed to
be maintained, and such other information as may be required by the Director of
Public Works. Such application shall further contain an agreement on the part
of the applicant that if said application is granted, the applicant will
indemnify and save and hold harmless the City, its agents, officers and
employees against and from all damages, judgments, claims, demands, expenses,
costs and expenditures, and against all loss or liability which the City or
such officers, agents or employees may suffer, or which may be recovered from
or obtainable against the City or such officers, agents or employees,
proximately caused by, growing out of, or in any way connected with, the
placing, erection, or maintenance of such encroachment, and upon the expiration
of said permit or the revocation thereof, the applicant will at his own cost
and expense, remove the same from the public property or right of way where the
same is located and restore said public property or right of way to the
condition as nearly as that in which it was before the placing, erection,
maintenance or existence of said encroachment.
Upon the receipt of such application, the Director of Public Works shall
conduct or cause to be made an investigation to determine if the maintenance of
said encroachment will substantially interfere with the use of the public
property, right of way or other public place where the same is proposed to be
placed, erected or maintained, and whether the placing, erection or maintenance
of said encroachment will constitute a hazard to persons using said public
property, right of way or other public place.
Upon the completion of such investigation, the Director of Public Works shall
prepare a report of his findings and may, at his discretion, either grant or
deny the applicant a permit to place, erect and/or maintain said encroachment.
Said permit, if granted, may be granted for a definite time or for an
indefinite time, and the Director of Public Works may impose such conditions to
the granting of the same as in his discretion will best subserve the public
interest. In any event, a permit granted by the Director of Public Works
pursuant to this Section, is revocable at any time.
Upon the revocation of any such permit, the Director of Public Works shall give
notice in the form and manner specified in Section
2-12-3 of this Chapter to the applicant for such permit or to the person
maintaining said encroachment, to remove said encroachment. It is unlawful for
any person to place, erect or maintain or to permit the placing, erection,
maintenance or existence of an encroachment upon, over or under any street,
avenue, lane, alley, sidewalk, court, place, public way, property or right of
way after his permit has expired, or after his permit has been revoked and the
time specified in the notice from the Director of Public Works for removal of
the same has expired.
   (C)   No permit shall be deemed granted until and unless the applicant has
provided the Director of Public Works with a certificate of insurance
evidencing coverage for bodily injury or property damage liability, or both,
unless such requirement is waived by the City Council. Any applicant may appeal
to the City Council the decision of the Director of Public Works regarding the
amount of insurance required.
   (D)   All work performed upon, over or under any street, avenue, lane,
alley, sidewalk, court, place, public way, property, or rights of way, now open
or dedicated or which may hereafter be opened or dedicated to public use within
the City, or upon, over or under any property belonging to the City shall be
performed in accordance with the approved Public Works Standards of the City.
(Ord. 667-99, 3-2-1999)
2-12-3: REMOVAL AFTER NOTICE:
   (A)   Any person whose property encroaches in any manner upon, over or under
any property of the City, or any street, avenue, lane, alley, sidewalk, court,
place, public way, property or rights of way, now open or dedicated or which
may hereafter be opened or dedicated to public use within the City, who has not
obtained an encroachment permit from the Director of Public Works for the
placing, erection and/or maintenance of such encroachment shall remove the same
after written notice by the Director of Public Works demanding such removal.
   (B)   Notice of such removal shall be by registered mail, addressed to the
post office address of the owner or occupant of the premises where the
encroachment exists, or by personal service of such notice upon the owner or
occupant, by a person authorized by the Director of Public Works to deliver
such notice. The notice shall provide that the encroachment shall be removed
within a reasonable time, not to exceed sixty (60) days from the date of the
notice, and that all required permits for such removal be secured therefor
within thirty (30) days of the date of notice. The notice shall further provide
that if the work is not completed within sixty (60) days from the date of the
notice, the City may proceed to cause the work to be done and charge the costs
thereof against the property or its owner.
   (C)   Any person having any record, title or legal interest in the
encroaching property may appeal from the notice to the City Council, provided
the appeal is made in writing and filed with the City Clerk within thirty (30)
days from the date of service of such notice. The failure to appeal will
constitute a waiver of all right to an administrative hearing and determination
of the matter. As soon as practicable after receiving the written appeal, the
City Council shall schedule a hearing for the appeal, which date shall be not
less than ten (10) nor more than sixty (60) days from the date the appeal was
filed with the City Clerk.
   (D)   Proof of service of the notice shall be certified to at the time of
service by a written declaration under penalty of perjury executed by the
persons effecting service, declaring the time, date and manner in which service
was made. Such proof of service shall be filed with the City Clerk.
   (E)   If the encroachment is not removed within the time specified in the
notice, and no appeal has been properly and timely filed, or if an appeal has
been filed and the encroachment not removed as directed by the City Council,
then the City Clerk shall file in the office of the County Recorder a
certificate describing that property and certifying that such property is
encroaching on public property and that the owner has been so notified.
Whenever the encroachment has been removed, the City Clerk shall file a new
certificate certifying that the encroachment has been removed.
   (F)   After any order of the director of public works or the city council,
in the case of an appeal, has become final, if the person fails to remove the
encroachment within the specified time period, the person may be prosecuted
under section
2-12-4 of this chapter or the director of public works may proceed to remove
the encroachment as provided herein. The city shall not be liable for any
damage to property or persons that may result to the property remaining after
removal of the encroachment.
   (G)   The recovery of costs shall be as follows:
      1.   The director of public works shall keep an itemized account of the
expense incurred in the removal of the encroachment. Upon completion of the
work, the director of public works shall prepare and file with the city clerk a
report specifying the itemized and total cost of the work, or description of
the property that had been encroaching, and the names and addresses of the
persons who had owned or were responsible for the encroaching property.
      2.   Upon receipt of said report, the city clerk shall transmit the
report to the city council. The city council shall fix a time, date and place
for hearing said report and any protests or objections thereto. The city clerk
shall cause notice of said hearing to be published once in a newspaper of
general circulation in the city and to be served by certified mail addressed to
the owner of the property from which the encroachment emanated or said owner's
name and address appear on the last equalized assessment roll of the county, or
as known to the city clerk. Such notice shall be given at least ten (10) days
before the date set for the hearing.
      3.   Any person interested in or affected by the proposed charge may file
written protests or objections with the city clerk at any time prior to the
hearing. Such protests or objections shall be presented to the city council at
the time of the hearing and no other protests or objections shall be
considered.
      4.   At the time and place fixed for the hearing, the city council shall
hear and pass upon the report of the director of public works together with any
written protests or objections. The city council may revise, correct, or modify
the report or the charge as it deems just and shall confirm or reject the
report together with the charge, as submitted or as revised, corrected or
modified. The decision of the city council shall be final and conclusive.
      5.   After hearing, the city council may order that said charge be made a
personal obligation of the property owner or assess said charge against the
property involved. If the city council orders that the charge shall be assessed
against the property, it shall confirm the assessment, cause the same to be
recorded on the assessment roll, and thereafter said assessment shall
constitute a special assessment against and a lien upon the property.
      6.   The validity of any assessment made under the provisions of this
chapter shall not be contested in any action or proceeding unless the same is
commenced within thirty (30) days after the assessment is placed upon the
assessment roll as provided herein.
      7.   Immediately upon its being placed on the assessment roll, the
assessment shall be deemed to be complete, the several amounts assessed shall
be payable, and the assessments shall be liens against the lots or parcels of
land assessed. The lien shall be subordinate to all existing special assessment
liens previously imposed upon the same property and shall be paramount to all
other liens except for state, county and property taxes with which it shall be
upon a parity. The lien shall continue until the assessment and all interest
due are paid.
      8.   All assessments remaining unpaid for thirty (30) days from the date
of recording on the assessment role shall become delinquent and shall bear
interest at the rate of ten percent (10%) per annum from and after said date.
      9.   After confirmation of the report, a certified copy of the assessment
shall be filed with the county assessor, tax collector and auditor on or before
August 10.
      10.   The amount of the assessment shall be collected at the same time
and in the same manner as ordinary property taxes and shall be subject to the
same penalties and procedures and sale in case of delinquency as provided for
ordinary property taxes. All laws applicable to the levy, collection and
enforcement of property taxes shall be applicable to such assessment. (Ord.
667-99, 3-2-1999)
2-12-4: VIOLATION, PENALTY:
Any person failing to remove any encroachment from any property of the city, or
from any street, avenue, lane, alley, sidewalk, court, place, public way,
property or rights of way, now open or dedicated or which may hereafter be
opened or dedicated to public use within the city within the time specified in
the notice for removal by the director of public works, shall be guilty of an
infraction. (Ord. 694-02, 8-20-2002)
2-12-5: FEES:
The fees charged for the processing of an encroachment permit and/or associated
documents shall be set from time to time by the city council by resolution.
(Ord. 667-99, 3-2-1999)
CHAPTER 13
USE OF PARKS, RECREATION FACILITIES AND OTHER PUBLIC PLACES
SECTION:
2-13-1: Declaration Of Policy
2-13-2: Definitions
2-13-3: Compliance
2-13-4: Specific Acts Prohibited
2-13-5: Confining Or Prohibiting Activities
2-13-6: Permission Required For Groups Of Twenty Five Or More
2-13-7: Amplified Sound In City Parks
2-13-8: Alcoholic Beverages In City Parks And Facilities
2-13-9: Permits
2-13-10: Bodily Functions Prohibited In Public Places
2-13-11: Enforcement
2-13-1: DECLARATION OF POLICY:
City parks and recreational facilities are established for the use and
enjoyment of all persons in the pursuit of recreation, whether active or
passive. It is the city's responsibility to promote the health, peace, safety,
welfare and convenience of all persons in regards to their use and enjoyment of
any city park. The city council finds that to give practical effect to this
policy and to ensure that all persons may enjoy such parks and facilities, it
is necessary to regulate the use of city parks and facilities. (Ord. 810-15, 5-
19-2015)
2-13-2: DEFINITIONS:
The following definitions apply to this chapter:
ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE(S): Shall have the meaning set forth in section 23004 of the
California Business And Professions Code, as the same presently exists, or as
the same may be amended from time to time.
CHIEF OF POLICE: Also means any officer of the city of Taft police department.
FACILITY: An indoor building, owned or used by the city and devoted to active
or passive recreation.
PARK: A park, playground, recreation center, tennis courts, swimming
facilities, sports field, ball field and/or open space or other area, structure
or facility, owned or used by the city and devoted to active or passive
recreation, or open for or dedicated to public use within the city of Taft,
including, without limitation, those constructed, adapted, or designated as
such after adoption of this chapter, and including, but not limited to, that
area commonly referred to as "rails to trails" or similar description. (Ord.
810-15, 5-19-2015)
2-13-3: COMPLIANCE:
No person shall enter, be or remain in any city park unless such person
complies with all the regulations and conditions set forth in this chapter.
(Ord. 810-15, 5-19-2015)
2-13-4: SPECIFIC ACTS PROHIBITED:
Every person who wilfully within any park commits any of the acts set out in
this section or violates any other prohibition in this chapter is guilty of an
infraction, except those sections listed misdemeanors, shall be punishable in
accordance with title I, chapters 1 through 3, inclusive, of this code, as now
existing or later amended. The prohibited acts include the following:
   (A)   To hitch, fasten, lead, drive or let loose any animal or fowl of any
kind, except in areas which may be designated by the chief of police, provided
that this shall not apply to dogs and cats when led by a leash and under full
control by its owner or custodian, and shall not apply to those dogs defined
under California law as "assistance dogs".
   (B)   To ride or drive any skates, skateboard, horse or other animal, or to
propel any vehicle, cycle, bicycle, skateboard, skates or automobile, except in
areas designated for purposes of vehicle or other travel or otherwise by the
chief of police. This provision does not apply to any vehicle being used for
authorized city business, nor to any police or other emergency vehicle
performing an authorized mission, nor to a vehicle which is within a park
pursuant to written permission of the chief of police. Neither does this
provision apply to any electrically driven wheelchair carrying a physically
incapacitated person.
   (C)   To enter, remain, stay or loiter in any park or facility between the
hours of ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. and six o'clock (6:00) A.M. the following day
without permission from the chief of police or except as a participant in an
activity permitted by the chief of police.
   (D)   To light or maintain any fire or to cook, prepare, serve or eat any
meal other than in an area which is provided for that purpose and designated as
such by posted notice.
   (E)   To possess, carry or discharge any firearms, firecrackers, rockets,
explosives or any other fireworks, air gun, bow and arrow, slingshot or any
similar device or weapon; nor shall any person carry into or use any other
object within a park with the intent of disturbing the peace of any person by
means of noise or otherwise. This prohibition shall not apply to the engaging
in or traveling to target practice conducted in accordance with appropriate
standards of safety at an archery, skeet or target range authorized and
provided by the city for such purpose, nor shall this prohibition apply to law
enforcement personnel acting within the scope of their official duties. This
provision's prohibition against possessing firearms shall not apply to
individuals in possession of a current and properly issued carry concealed
weapon (CCW) permit, if such CCW permit was properly issued by a California
city police department or California county sheriff's office. Persons with a
current and properly issued CCW permit may not discharge such weapon or weapons
within a park even with said CCW permit.
   (F)   To throw, project or propel or drive upon a lawn or across any park,
public walkway or driveway within a park any missile, model airplane, model
car, go-carts or other self-propelled devices and vehicles not covered under
the California Vehicle Code, capable of causing personal injury or damage to
personal property, except at such places designated therefor by the chief of
police.
   (G)   To drive, hit or putt any golf ball or to use any golf club in any
park or upon any pathway or trail, except in such areas as may be designated by
the chief of police for that purpose.
   (H)   To cut, break, injure, deface or destroy any tree, shrub, plant, rock,
building, cage, pen, monument, sidewalk or paved area, fence, bench or other
structure, apparatus or property, or pull up, cut, take or remove any shrub,
bush, plant or flower, or mark or write upon, paint or deface in any manner any
building, monument, bench, sidewalk, paved area or other structure. This
prohibition shall not apply to any employee or contractor of the city.
   (I)   To cut or remove any wood, turf, grass, soil, rock, gravel, sand or
fertilizer from a park or from any place within a park.
   (J)   To camp or lodge therein except by permission in writing by the chief
of police.
   (K)   To throw, discard, place or dispose of any garbage or refuse in any
place other than in a garbage can or other receptacle maintained for that
purpose.
   (L)   To park any vehicle on any path or grass except at places designed for
parking by the chief of police, or to park any vehicle overnight, even in
places designed for parking.
   (M)   To play or bet at or against any game which is played, conducted,
dealt or carried on with cards, dice or other devices for money, chips, shells,
credit or other representative of value, or maintain or exhibit any gambling
table or other instrument of gambling or gaming. This prohibition shall not
apply to simulated gambling games or to bingo games when conducted by a
nonprofit organization during fundraising events pursuant to a permit or
reservation issued by the chief of police pursuant to this code and in
compliance with all other applicable law.
   (N)   To hold any meeting, service, concert, event or exhibition without
first obtaining written permission from the chief of police or other city
official or department designated by the city manager for the issuance of such
written permission.
   (O)   To engage in any commercial activity including, but not limited to,
the selling, offering for sale, advertising for sale or solicitation for future
delivery or performance of any goods, wares, merchandise or services, except
pursuant to a specific concession or contract granted by the city or a permit
therefor.
   (P)   To interfere with the use of any scheduled group or activity that has
received a permit from the city for use of said park.
   (Q)   To camp overnight or otherwise set up camping equipment within a park.
(Ord. 810-15, 5-19-2015)
2-13-5: CONFINING OR PROHIBITING ACTIVITIES:
The chief of police may prohibit or confine to posted areas within a park or
facility any activities to the extent necessary so that it will not be
detrimental to the health, safety and welfare of the general public or damaging
to the property of the city. (Ord. 810-15, 5-19-2015)
2-13-6: PERMISSION REQUIRED FOR GROUPS OF TWENTY FIVE OR MORE:
No person, company, society, organization, gathering or group ("event
organizer") of more than twenty five (25) persons shall hold or conduct any
picnic, celebration, parade, event, gathering, assembly or meeting in any park
within the city without first obtaining a written permit to do so by the city
manager; and no person shall attend, take part in or be a participant in any
such picnic, celebration, parade, exercise, gathering, assembly or meeting in a
park unless the permission has first been obtained. The city manager shall have
the right to determine conditions and restrictions upon which such a written
permit shall be issued, or may designate a city official or department to do
so. Failure by the event organizer or any attendee to follow said conditions
and restrictions shall constitute a violation of this section. (Ord. 810-15, 5-
19-2015)
2-13-7: AMPLIFIED SOUND IN CITY PARKS:
   (A)   The intent of this section is to reasonably regulate the use of parks
within the city in such a manner that various groups may enjoy such parks
without unduly interfering with or creating conflicts with other groups, and to
ensure that if public address systems, amplified instruments or percussion
instruments are used within the parks, that they shall be used in such place
and manner that they will not unduly interfere with or be an annoyance to other
groups or individual people who may be using the parks at the same time or to
the surrounding neighborhood.
   (B)   Public address systems, acoustical instruments and/or electrically
amplified instruments are prohibited unless the chief of police or city
manager, or other city official or department designated by the city manager,
finds the amplification meets the criteria stated in subsection (A) of this
section, and the amplification use does not violate the provisions of section
8-5-1 of this code. (Ord. 810-15, 5-19-2015)
2-13-8: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES IN CITY PARKS AND FACILITIES:
The possession (open and closed containers), consumption, sale, transportation
or disbursement of alcoholic beverages is prohibited in city parks and
facilities unless a permit is obtained and approved in writing by the chief of
police pursuant to this section, and in that event only in compliance with the
conditions and restrictions of that permit. (Ord. 810-15, 5-19-2015)
2-13-9: PERMITS:
All permits are subject to such kinds and coverage of liability insurance and
security requirements, alcoholic beverage control license (if applicable) and
such other conditions and requirements imposed for the permitted event as found
necessary by the chief of police, city manager, or other designated city
official or department, to protect the public health, safety and welfare, and
in accordance with such rules and regulations as may be adopted to implement
the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 810-15, 5-19-2015)
2-13-10: BODILY FUNCTIONS PROHIBITED IN PUBLIC PLACES:
Any person who, in any public park, street, alley, highway, public meeting,
assembly or other public place, or in the immediate neighborhood thereof and in
view from the same places, urinates or defecates, is guilty of a misdemeanor,
provided that this section shall not be applicable to the act of urinating or
defecating in a proper receptacle in a restroom or bathroom in any enclosed
structure. (Ord. 810-15, 5-19-2015)
2-13-11: ENFORCEMENT:
Except as otherwise provided, the chief of police shall have the primary
responsibility for the enforcement of this chapter. Each police and law
enforcement officer of the city is given permission to enter the public and
restricted parts of all parks and public facilities to maintain public order or
to prevent, remedy or take other appropriate action with respect to violations
of the provisions of this chapter or of other applicable laws or regulations.
All violations are prosecutable under title I, chapters 1 through 3, inclusive,
of this code, as well as under any other provisions of applicable law, whether
or not contained within this code. Parking violations may be enforced via
citation and by immediate towing. Vehicles towed shall be released to the
rightful owner only upon presentation of proof of ownership and payment in full
of all citations and towing and impound fees. (Ord. 810-15, 5-19-2015)
CHAPTER 14
USE OF VEHICLES FOR HUMAN HABITATION PROHIBITED
SECTION:
2-14-1: Declaration Of Policy
2-14-2: Definitions
2-14-3: Use Of Vehicles For Human Habitation Prohibited
2-14-1: DECLARATION OF POLICY:
It is the City's responsibility to promote the health, peace, safety, welfare
and convenience of all persons in regards to their use and enjoyment of public
lands. The City Council finds it necessary to regulate the use of vehicles for
human habitation on public land for this purpose while ensuring that all such
regulations comport with applicable law. (Ord. 852-23, 7-18-2023)
2-14-2: DEFINITIONS:
The following definitions apply to this chapter:
 
BLOCK:         Five hundred feet (500').
               More than one of the following activities and when it reasonably
               appears, in light of all the circumstances, that a person is
               using a vehicle as a place of residence or accommodation:
               possessing inside or on a vehicle items that are not associated
               with ordinary vehicle use, such as a sleeping bag, bedroll,
               blanket, sheet, pillow, kitchen utensils, cookware, cooking
HABITATION:    equipment, bodily fluids; obscuring some or all of the vehicle's
               windows; preparing or cooking meals inside or on a vehicle;
               sleeping inside the vehicle; leaving of litter, rubbish, or
               waste in or around the vehicle; having furniture or equipment in
               or around the vehicle, such as chairs, tables, umbrellas, or
               portable cooking equipment; leaving, storing, or otherwise
               discarding of human wastes inside the vehicle or in the vicinity
               of the vehicle.
               A park, playground, recreation center, tennis courts, swimming
               facilities, sports field, ball field and/or open space or other
               area, structure or facility, owned or used by the City and
               devoted to active or passive recreation, or open for or
PARK:          dedicated to public use within the City of Taft, including,
               without limitation, those constructed, adapted, or designated as
               such after adoption of this chapter, and including, but not
               limited to, that area commonly referred to as "rails to trails"
               or similar description.
               Shall mean and include, without limitation, streets, roads,
PUBLIC STREET: highways, alleys, sidewalks, parkways, bridges, culverts,
               drains, and all other facilities and areas necessary for the
               construction, improvement and maintenance of streets and roads.
               Any device by which any person or property may be propelled,
               moved or drawn upon a highway, off road or in the water or
VEHICLE:       through the air, including, but not limited to cars, trucks,
               airplanes, motor homes, recreational vehicles, trailers,
               watercraft (on or off its hauler) except a device intended to be
               moved exclusively by human power. (Ord. 852-23, 7-18-2023)
 
2-14-3: USE OF VEHICLES FOR HUMAN HABITATION PROHIBITED:
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to sleep in a vehicle whatsoever
for habitation when the number of available beds in shelters is greater than
the number of homeless individuals in the City:
      1.   Between the hours of nine o’clock (9:00) P.M. and six o’clock (6:00)
A.M. on any public or private street, parking lot, or unimproved or vacant lot
within the City of Taft; or
      2.   At any time within a one block radius of any edge of a lot
containing a park or a licensed school, pre-school, or daycare facility within
the City of Taft.
   The foregoing shall not apply to a private parking lot or unimproved lot in
which the property owner has obtained a conditional use permit from the City to
allow for sleeping in the parking lot or unimproved lot. Nothing herein shall
be construed to prohibit camping in public campgrounds pursuant to a permit or
license authorized under Federal, State, or local statute or ordinance. Nothing
herein shall be construed to prohibit the allowable parking and sleeping in
recreational vehicles described in sections 
6-12-19,
6-12-20, and
6-12-21 of title VI of the Taft Municipal Code if all legal requirements
therein are met. Nothing herein precludes the enforcement of any other related
laws that the City of Taft is authorized to enforce.
   (B)   Violations of this section may be punished only as an infraction or as
an administrative violation and in no event shall any fine be issued. No
citation for a violation of this section shall be issued unless, at the time in
question, the enforcement officer, in his or her reasonable discretion, is able
to make an affirmative determination that there is an available bed in a
shelter in the City, which includes a temporary shelter for individuals who do
not have permanent housing, based on the information known to the enforcement
officer at the time. In determining whether there is an available bed in a
shelter, the enforcement officer shall consider all the circumstances and the
policies and requirements of an available bed in a shelter, and whether it is
practicable for the person to seek shelter there or elsewhere.
   (C)   If any portion, subsection, sentence, clause or phrase of this section
is for any reason held by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid, such
a decision shall not affect the validity of the remaining portions of this
section. The City Council hereby declares that it would have passed this
ordinance and each portion or subsection, sentence, clause and phrase herein,
irrespective of the fact that any one or more portions, subsections, sentences,
clauses or phrases be declared invalid.
   (D)   This section may be enforced by Peace Officers of the City of Taft and
by the City of Taft employees specified in section
1-1-12 of title I.
   (E)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to affect, supersede, or
otherwise prevent enforcement of provisions under other provisions of the Taft
Municipal Code, California State Law, or other law enforceable by the City or
to prevent the City from commencing administrative, civil, or criminal
proceedings for nuisance abatement, injunctive relief, or other methods of
enforcement available under law. (Ord. 852-23, 7-18-2023)
CHAPTER 15
PROHIBITION AGAINST STORAGE OF PERSONAL PROPERTY IN PUBLIC PLACES
SECTION:
2-15-1: Declaration Of Policy
2-15-2: Definitions
2-15-3: Storage Of Personal Property Prohibited
2-15-4: Notice Of Impoundment And/Or Disposal
2-15-5: Storage And Disposal
2-15-6: Reclamation Process
2-15-7: Surrender Of Personal Property
2-15-8: Evidence In A Criminal Case
2-15-1: DECLARATION OF POLICY:
The accumulation of personal property left by unknown persons in public
streets, public parks, public sidewalks, and public areas, constitutes a threat
to the peace, health, safety and/or general welfare of the public and disrupt
the use and enjoyment of such public spaces. The City Council finds it
necessary to remove such personal property located on public lands in a manner
that is consistent with State and Federal law, and which promotes the health
and safety, and general welfare of those who use these public lands. (Ord. 852-
23, 7-18-2023)
2-15-2: DEFINITIONS:
The following definitions apply to this chapter:
ABANDONED PERSONAL PROPERTY:     Personal property that the owner surrenders,
                                 relinquishes, or disclaims.
BLOCK:                           Five hundred feet (500').
                                 A park, playground, recreation center, tennis
                                 courts, swimming facilities, sports field,
                                 ball field and/or open space or other area,
PARK:                            structure or facility, owned or used by the
                                 City and devoted to active or passive
                                 recreation, or open for or dedicated to public
                                 use
                                 within the City of Taft, including, without
                                 limitation, those constructed, adapted, or
                                designated as such after adoption of this
                                 chapter, and including, but not limited to,
                                 that area commonly referred to as "rails to
                                 trails" or similar description.
                                 Tangible personal belongings. Tangible
                                 personal belongings include any movable or
                                 tangible thing that is subject to ownership;
PERSONAL PROPERTY:               property or chattels that can be seen,
                                 weighed, measured, felt, or touched, such as
                                 cooking utensils, money, medication,
                                 documents, clothing, luggage, and books.
                                 All property that is owned, managed or
                                 maintained by the City and shall include, but
PUBLIC AREA:                     is not limited to, any street, alley, park,
                                 public right-of-way, recreational area, any
                                 place open to the public view or other place
                                 to which the public has access.
                                 To put personal property aside or accumulate
                                 for use when needed, to put for safekeeping
                                 and/or to place or leave in a public area.
                                 Moving personal property to another location
STORE, STORED, STORING, STORAGE: in a public area or returning personal
                                 property to the same block on a daily or
                                 regular basis shall be considered storing and
                                 shall not be considered to be removing the
                                 personal property from a public area.
                                 Shall include every highway, avenue, lane,
                                 alley, court, place, square, sidewalk,
                                 parkway, curb, bikeway, or other public way in
STREET:                          this City which has been or may hereafter be
                                 dedicated and open to public use, or such
                                 other public property so designated in any law
                                 of this State.
                                 No person is present with the personal
                                 property who asserts or claims ownership over
                                 the personal property. Conversely, property is
UNATTENDED:                      considered "attended" if a person is present
                                 with the personal property and the person
                                 claims ownership over the personal property.
                                 (Ord. 852-23, 7-18-2023)
 
2-15-3: STORAGE OF PERSONAL PROPERTY PROHIBITED:
   (A)   It shall be unlawful and a public nuisance for any person to store
personal property in any of the following areas, except as otherwise approved
by the city manager or designee or as permitted by the TMC or State law:
      1.   Any public street or right-of-way, including sidewalks, bus stops,
and public landscaping; or
      2.   Any parking lot, yard, building setback, vacant land, open space,
park, or any other area open to, accessible to, or controlled by the public,
improved or unimproved.
   (B)   A violation of this section is punishable as a misdemeanor or
chargeable at the district attorney's or city prosecutor's discretion. The
enforcement officials provided in subsection C of this section may also deem
the violation an infraction in their discretion when enforcing this section.
   (C)   This section and entire chapter may be enforced by the City of Taft
employees specified in section
1-1-12 of title I.
   (D)   Personal property stored in violation of this section shall be subject
to impoundment and/or disposal pursuant to procedures established in sections
2-15-4 through
2-15-5. (Ord. 852-23, 7-18-2023)
2-15-4: NOTICE OF IMPOUNDMENT AND/OR DISPOSAL:
   (A)   No Notice For Intentionally Abandoned, Contraband, Or Hazardous Waste:
Unlawfully stored personal property that is believed in good faith, by those
authorized to enforce this chapter, to be intentionally abandoned or which
presents an immediate threat to public health or safety, is contraband, is
hazardous waste, or which clearly constitutes waste or trash may be disposed of
without any notice.
   (B)   No Notice For Evidence In Criminal Case: Unlawfully stored personal
property that constitutes evidence in a criminal investigation may be impounded
without notice.
   (C)   Notice Required For All Other Personal Property: For all other
personal property beyond that identified in subsections A and B of this
section, actions taken on such personal property that is unlawfully stored
pursuant to this chapter must be done according to the following notice
provisions:
      1.   Pre-Removal Notice: Pre-removal notice shall be deemed provided if a
written notice is provided to the person who is storing or claims ownership of
the personal property or is posted conspicuously on or near the personal
property if the personal property is unattended. The written notice shall
contain the following:
         (a)   General description of the personal property to be removed.
         (b)   The location from which the personal property will be removed.
         (c)   The date and time the notice was posted.
         (d)   Statement that the personal property has been stored in
violation of section
2-15-3.
         (e)   Statement that the personal property will be impounded if not
removed from the public area within twenty four (24) hours.
         (f)   Statement that moving stored personal property to another
location in the public area shall not be considered to be removing personal
property from the public area.
         (g)   The location where the removed personal property will be stored,
including telephone number and the internet website of the Public Works
Department through which the person may receive information as to the impounded
personal property as well as information as to voluntary storage location(s).
         (h)   Statement that impounded personal property may be discarded if
not claimed within ninety (90) days after impoundment.
      2.   Post Removal Notice: Upon removal of stored personal property,
written notice shall be conspicuously placed in the area from which the
personal property was removed. The written notice shall contain the following:
         (a)   General description of the personal property removed.
         (b)   The date and approximate time the personal property was removed.
         (c)   Statement that the personal property was stored in a public area
in violation of section
2-15-3.
         (d)   The location where the removed personal property will be
located, including telephone number and internet website of the Public Works
Department through which the person may receive information as to impounded
personal property.
         (e)   Statement that the impounded personal property may be discarded
if not claimed within ninety (90) days after impoundment. (Ord. 852-23, 7-18-
2023)
2-15-5: STORAGE AND DISPOSAL:
Except as specified herein, the Public Works Department and code enforcement
shall move impounded personal property pursuant to this chapter to a place of
storage.
Except as specified herein, the Public Works Department shall store impounded
personal property for ninety (90) days, after which time, if not claimed, it
may be subject to disposition as provided in this chapter or as otherwise
provided by law. Upon the expiration of any holding period for personal
property as specified herein any remaining personal property not claimed by or
returned to the owner may be appropriated to the City upon order of the city
manager or designee that the persona property is needed for a public use. Any
personal property not appropriated to the City may be sold at a public auction
or disposed of in such a manner as deemed appropriate by the city manager or
designee. If personal property constitutes money, such money shall be deposited
into the City's general fund.
The City shall not be required to undertake any search for, or return, any
impounded personal property stored for longer than ninety (90) days. The Public
Works Department shall maintain a record of the date and manner of coming into
possession of the impounded personal property, adequate description of the
same, and the dates of storage and disposition, and disposition of the personal
property. (Ord. 852-23, 7-18-2023)
2-15-6: RECLAMATION PROCESS:
   (A)   During the ninety (90) day holding period under section
2-15-5, a person may repossess the personal property if they establish proof of
ownership to the City by, among other methods, describing the location and date
when the personal property was impounded from public area, and providing
reasonably specific and detailed description of the personal property. Valid,
government-issued identification is not required to claim impounded personal
property.
   (B)   If ownership cannot be determined to the satisfaction of the Public
Works Department or designee, the City may refuse to return the personal
property until ordered to do so by a court of competent jurisdiction; however,
the Public Works Department shall continue to hold the personal property until
such a determination is made.
   (C)   If ownership is determined, the owner of the impounded personal
property shall be required to pay the reasonable costs incurred by the City in
impoundment and storage prior to the return of the personal property, unless a
financial hardship waiver is submitted to the Public Works Department by the
owner on forms authorized by the Public Works Department and such waiver is
approved by the Chief of Police or designee. In the financial hardship waiver,
the applicant must provide information or documentary proof satisfactory to
Public Works Department, attesting, proving, or otherwise, showing the
financial hardship reimbursing Public Works Department for the reasonable costs
of impoundment and storage. The Public Works Department shall make a written
determination on the waiver and provide notice of that determination by
personal. (Ord. 852-23, 7-18-2023)
2-15-7: SURRENDER OF PERSONAL PROPERTY:
Whenever the City comes into possession of personal property surrendered to it
by a third person who has found or discovered lost or abandoned personal
property, the Public Works Department shall be charged with storage and
disposition of the personal property as provided in this Chapter. Whenever the
ownership of surrendered property is known or may be readily determined by the
City, the City shall contact the owner by best means available, including mail
or call to the last known address and/or telephone number, and advise of the
City's possession of said items and a notification that the City will store the
property as provided in section
2-15-5 and that the owner may reclaim the personal property as provided in
section
2-15-6. (Ord. 852-23, 7-18-2023)
2-15-8: EVIDENCE IN A CRIMINAL CASE:
Notwithstanding section
2-15-6, where personal property is impounded for use as evidence in a criminal
case, such property shall be held until the final disposition of any pending
charges, including appeals, or the lapse of time for filing an appeal, unless a
court orders otherwise, in accordance with California Penal Code section 1417
et seq. (Ord. 852-23, 7-18-2023)
TITLE III
HEALTH AND SANITATION
CHAPTER 1
RESTAURANTS
SECTION:
3-1-1: Purpose
3-1-2: Definitions
3-1-3: Licenses
3-1-4: Inspections
3-1-5: Sanitation Requirements For Restaurants
3-1-6: Restaurant Construction And Alterations
3-1-7: Reinstatement Of License
3-1-8: Disease Control
3-1-9: Procedure When Infection Suspected
3-1-10: Enforcement; Interpretation
3-1-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to establish standards for restaurants and food
establishments and to provide procedures for complying with requirements placed
upon the city by other regulatory agencies. (Ord. 836-20, 5-5-2020)
3-1-2: DEFINITIONS:
The following definitions shall apply in the interpretation and the enforcement
of this Chapter:
 
                    Any person who handles food or drink during preparation or
EMPLOYEE:           serving, or who comes in contact with any eating or cooking
                    utensils, or who is employed in a room in which food or
                    drink is prepared or served.
                    A food establishment as defined in the California uniform
                    retail food facilities law, section 113789 of the
FOOD ESTABLISHMENT: California Health And Safety Code. These are commonly
                    referred to as restaurants, takeout fast food, delis,
                    markets or similar operations
 
            Restaurant, coffee shop, cafeteria, short order café, luncheonette, tavern,
RESTAURANT: sandwich stand, soda fountain, and all other eating or drinking
            establishments, as well as kitchens or other places in which food or drink
            is prepared for sale elsewhere.
            Shall include any kitchenware, tableware, glassware, cutlery, utensils,
UTENSILS:   containers, or other equipment with which food or drink comes in contact
            during storage, preparation, or association. (Ord. 147 N.S., 4-47; amd. Ord.
            836-20, 5-5-2020)
 
3-1-3: LICENSES:
It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a restaurant in the City who
does not possess a business license as required by this Chapter. Such licenses
shall be posted in a conspicuous place. Only persons who comply with the
requirements of this Chapter shall be entitled to receive and retain such a
license.
Such a license may be temporarily suspended by the Building Official or Kern
County Public Health Services Department upon the violation by the holder of
any of the terms of this Chapter. (Ord. 147 N.S., 4-47; amd. Ord. 836-20, 5-5-
2020)
3-1-4: INSPECTIONS:
Restaurants and food establishments may be inspected as necessary by the City
Building Official and the Kern County Public Health Services Department per
Chapter 1.5 of this title. (Ord. 147 N.S., 4-47; amd. Ord. 836-20, 5-5-2020)
3-1-5: SANITATION REQUIREMENTS FOR RESTAURANTS:
All restaurants shall comply with all of the following items of sanitation.
   (A)   Floors: The floors of all rooms in which food or drink is stored,
prepared or served, or in which utensils are washed, shall be of such
construction as to be easily cleaned, shall be kept clean and in good repair.
   (B)   Walls and Ceilings: Walls and ceilings of all rooms shall be kept
clean and in good repair. All walls and ceilings of rooms in which food or
drink is stored or prepared shall be finished in light color. The walls of all
rooms in which food or drink is prepared or utensils are washed shall have a
smooth, washable surface up to the level reached by splash or spray.
   (C)   Doors and Windows: When flies are prevalent, all openings into the
outer air shall be effectively screened and doors shall be self-closing, unless
other effective means are provided to prevent the entrance of flies.
   (D)   Lighting: All rooms in which food or drink is stored or prepared or in
which utensils are washed shall be well lighted.
   (E)   Ventilation: All rooms in which food or drink is stored, prepared, or
served, or in which utensils are washed, shall be well ventilated.
   (F)   Toilet Facilities: Every restaurant shall be provided with adequate
and conveniently located toilet facilities for its employees. In restaurants
toilet rooms shall not open directly into any room in which food, drink, or
utensils are handled or stored. The doors of all toilet rooms shall be self-
closing. Toilet rooms shall be kept in a clean condition, in good repair, and
well lighted and ventilated. Handwashing signs shall be posted in each toilet
room used by employees.
   (G)   Water Supply: Running water under pressure shall be easily accessible
to all rooms in which food is prepared or utensils are washed, and the water
supply shall be adequate, and of a safe, sanitary quality.
   (H)   Lavatory Facilities: Adequate and convenient handwashing facilities
shall be provided, including hot and cold running water, soap, and sanitary
towels. The use of a common towel is prohibited. No employee shall resume work
after using the toilet room without first washing their hands.
   (I)   Construction Of Utensils And Equipment: All multi-use utensils and all
show and display cases or windows, counters, shelves, tables, refrigerating
equipment, sinks, and other equipment or utensils used in connection with the
operation of a restaurant shall be so constructed as to be easily cleaned and
shall be kept in good repair.
   (J)   Cleaning And Bactericidal Treatment Of Utensils And Equipment: All
equipment, including display cases or windows, counters, shelves, tables,
refrigerators, stoves, hoods, and sinks, shall be kept clean and free from
dust, dirt, insects, and other contaminating material. All cloths used by
waiters, chefs, and other employees shall be clean. Single service containers
shall be used only once.
   All multi-use eating and drinking utensils shall be thoroughly cleansed and
effectively subjected to an approved bactericidal process after each usage. All
multi-use utensils used in the preparation or serving of food and drink shall
be thoroughly cleaned and effectively subjected to an approved bactericidal
process immediately following the day's operation. Drying cloths, if used,
shall be clean and shall be used for no other purpose.
   No article, polish, or other substance containing any cyanide preparation or
other poisonous material shall be used for the cleaning or polishing of
utensils.
   (K)   Storage And Handling Of Utensils And Equipment: After bactericidal
treatment utensils shall be stored in a clean, dry place protected from flies,
dust, and other contamination, and shall be handled in such a manner as to
prevent contamination as far as practicable. Single service utensils shall be
purchased only in sanitary containers, shall be stored therein in a clean, dry
place until used, and shall be handled in a sanitary manner.
   (L)   Disposal Of Wastes: All wastes shall be properly disposed of, and all
garbage and trash shall be kept in suitable receptacles, in such manner as not
to become a nuisance.
   (M)   Refrigeration: All readily perishable food and drink shall be kept at
or below fifty degrees Fahrenheit (50°F) except when being prepared or served.
Waste water from refrigeration equipment shall be disposed of in a sanitary
manner.
   (N)   Wholesomeness Of Food And Drink: All food and drink shall be clean,
wholesome, free from spoilage, and so prepared as to be safe for human
consumption. All milk, fluid milk products, ice cream, and other frozen
desserts served shall be from sources complying with the sanitation laws of the
State relative to dairies and dairy products. Milk and fluid milk products
shall be served in the individual original containers in which they were
received from the distributor: Provided, that this requirement shall not apply
to cream, which may be served from the original bottle or from a dispenser
approved for such service. All oysters, clams, and mussels if shucked shall be
kept, until used, in the containers in which they were placed at the shucking
plant.
   (O)   Storage, Display, And Serving Of Food And Drink: All food and drink
shall be so stored, displayed, and served as to be protected from dust, flies,
vermin, depredation and pollution by rodents, unnecessary handling, droplet
infection, overhead leakage, and other contamination. No animals or fowls shall
be kept or allowed in any room in which food or drink is prepared or stored.
All means necessary for the elimination of flies, roaches, and rodents shall be
used.
   (P)   Cleanliness Of Employees: All employees shall wear clean outer
garments and shall keep their hands clean at all times while engaged in
handling food, drink, utensils, or equipment. Employees shall not expectorate
or use tobacco in any form in rooms in which food is prepared.
   (Q)   Miscellaneous: The premises of all restaurants shall be kept clean and
free of litter or rubbish. None of the operations connected with a restaurant
shall be conducted in any room used as living or sleeping quarters. Adequate
lockers or dressing rooms shall be provided for employees' clothing and shall
be kept clean. Soiled linens, coats, and aprons shall be kept in containers
provided for this purpose. (Ord. 147 N.S., 4-47; amd. Ord. 836-20, 5-5-2020)
3-1-6: RESTAURANT CONSTRUCTION AND ALTERATIONS:
Any construction, alteration, remodeling, or operation of a food establishment
shall be approved by the planning and building departments and shall be in
accordance with all applicable local, state, and federal statutes, regulations,
and ordinances, including but not limited to Kern County Public Health Services
Department and Kern County Fire Department. (Ord. 147 N.S., 4-47; amd. Ord.
836-20, 5-5-2020)
3-1-7: REINSTATEMENT OF LICENSE:
Any person operating a restaurant or food facility, whose business or food
facility license has been suspended, may at any time make application for the
reinstatement of the license per Chapter 1.5 of this title. (Ord. 147 N.S., 4-
47; amd. Ord. 836-20, 5-5-2020)
3-1-8: DISEASE CONTROL:
It is the intent of the state legislature to reduce the likelihood of foodborne
disease transmission by preventing any food employee who is suffering from
symptoms associated with an acute gastrointestinal illness, or known to be
infected with a communicable disease that is transmissible through food, from
engaging in the handling of food until the food employee is determined to be
free of that illness or disease, or incapable of transmitting the illness or
disease through food as specified in Section 113949 through 113950.5 of the
Health and Safety Code. (Ord. 147 N.S., 4-47; amd. Ord. 836-20, 5-5-2020)
3-1-9: PROCEDURE WHEN INFECTION SUSPECTED:
Per Section 113949.1 of the Health and Safety Code, when a local health officer
is notified of an illness that can be transmitted by food in a food facility or
by an employee of a food facility, the local health officer shall inform the
local enforcement agency. The local health officer or the local enforcement
agency, or both, shall notify the person in charge of the food facility and
shall investigate conditions and may, after the investigation, take appropriate
action, and for reasonable cause, require any or all of the following measures
to be taken:
   (A)   The immediate restriction or exclusion of any food employee from the
affected food facility.
   (B)   The immediate closing of the food facility until, in the opinion of
the local enforcement agency, the identified danger of disease outbreak has
been addressed. Any appeal of the closure shall be made in writing within five
days to the applicable local enforcement agency.
   (C)   Any medical evaluation of any employee, including any laboratory test
or procedure, that may be indicated. If an employee refuses to participate in a
medical evaluation, the local enforcement agency may require the immediate
exclusion of the refusing employee from that or any other food facility until
an acceptable medical evaluation or laboratory test or procedure shows that the
employee is not infectious.
   (D)   For purposes of this section, "illness" means a condition caused by
any of the following infectious agents:
      (1)   Salmonella typhi.
      (2)   Salmonella spp.
      (3)   Shigella spp.
      (4)   Entamoeba histolytica.
      (5)   Enterohemorrhagic or shiga toxin producing Escherichia coli.
      (6)   Hepatitis A virus.
      (7)   Norovirus.
      (8)   Other communicable diseases that are transmissible through food.
(Ord. 147 N.S., 4-47; amd. Ord. 836-20, 5-5-2020)
3-1-10: ENFORCEMENT; INTERPRETATION:
The provisions of this Chapter shall be enforced by the building department,
planning department, and Kern County Public Health Services Department, which
said interpretations are hereby referred to and adopted as a part hereof as if
fully incorporated herein. (Ord. 147 N.S., 4-47; amd. Ord. 836-20, 5-5-2020)
CHAPTER 1.5
FOOD ESTABLISHMENT GRADING
SECTION:
3-1.5-1: Purpose
3-1.5-2: Definitions
3-1.5-3: General Requirements
3-1.5-4: Posting Requirements
3-1.5-5: Inspection Summary Report; Period Of Validity
3-1.5-6: Appeal Process
3-1.5-7: Rescore Inspection
3-1.5-8: Enforcement And Penalties
3-1.5-9: Food Safety Education
3-1.5-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to establish standards for the issuance of a
grading score which represents the compliance of food establishments with local
ordinances and state law. (Ord. 727-07, 1-2-2007, eff. 7-1-2007)
3-1.5-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter:
DEPARTMENT: The Kern County environmental public services department.
DIRECTOR: The environmental health director or his/her designee.
FOOD ESTABLISHMENT: A food establishment as defined in the California uniform
retail food facilities law, section 113789 of the California Health And Safety
Code. These are commonly referred to as restaurants, takeout fast food, delis,
markets or similar operations.
INSPECTION: An evaluation of the food establishment conducted on site by the
department.
INSPECTION REPORT FORM: The written report prepared and copy issued to a food
establishment provided by the department after conducting any inspection to
determine compliance with all applicable federal, state, and local laws and
regulations relating to the protection of public health.
INSPECTION SUMMARY REPORT: A card that is posted at the conclusion of the
inspection which is based on the results from the inspection report form. The
inspection summary report will indicate a letter grade or numeric score.
RESCORE INSPECTION: An evaluation of the food establishment conducted by the
department at the request of the permittee to reassess compliance with
applicable laws and regulations. (Ord. 727-07, 1-2-2007, eff. 7-1-2007; amd.
Ord. 836-20, 5-5-2020)
3-1.5-3: GENERAL REQUIREMENTS:
All food establishments shall be inspected and graded uniformly using an
inspection report form. The grade of each food establishment shall be
determined by the director using the scoring method provided on the form. The
inspection summary report of each food establishment shall be posted.
   (A)   The letter "A" shall indicate a final score of ninety percent (90%) or
higher.
   (B)   The letter "B" shall indicate a final score of less than ninety
percent (90%) but not less than eighty percent (80%).
   (C)   The letter "C" shall indicate a final score of less than eighty
percent (80%) but not less than seventy five percent (75%).
   (D)   A numeric score shall be indicated for a final score of less than
seventy five percent (75%). Establishments that score below seventy five
percent (75%) will be required to close immediately and the environmental
health permit will be suspended.
   (E)   The inspection summary report shall be posted at a food establishment
by the director upon completion of an inspection. (Ord. 727-07, 1-2-2007, eff.
7-1-2007)
3-1.5-4: POSTING REQUIREMENTS:
   (A)   The inspection summary report shall be posted at or near each entrance
to the food establishment used by its patrons or in a conspicuous place
selected by the director.
   (B)   The inspection summary report shall not be defaced, marred,
camouflaged, hidden or removed. It shall be unlawful to operate a food
establishment unless the inspection summary report is posted. (Ord. 727-07, 1-
2-2007, eff. 7-1-2007)
3-1.5-5: INSPECTION SUMMARY REPORT; PERIOD OF VALIDITY:
An inspection summary report shall remain valid until the director completes
the next inspection of the food establishment. (Ord. 836-20, 5-5-2020)
3-1.5-6: APPEAL PROCESS:
If, after completion of an inspection, the permittee disagrees with the
inspection findings or the resulting inspection summary report, the permittee
may request an appeal.
   (A)   The permittee shall submit a written request for an appeal on a
standardized form as determined by the department within five (5) business days
following the inspection.
   (B)   The appeal shall be heard within three (3) business days following the
written appeal request.
   (C)   The appeal shall be heard by the director at which time the appeal
shall be considered and a final determination issued within one business day.
   (D)   The previously issued inspection summary report shall remain posted
until final resolution is obtained through the appeal process. After resolution
of the appeal process the new inspection summary report shall be posted within
one business day. (Ord. 727-07, 1-2-2007, eff. 7-1-2007; amd. Ord. 836-20, 5-5-
2020)
3-1.5-7: RESCORE INSPECTION:
At the discretion of the permittee, a rescore inspection may be requested to
reassess compliance.
   (A)   A rescore inspection must be requested by the permittee on a
standardized form as determined by the department within seven (7) days of the
original inspection. Only one rescore inspection may be requested within each
fiscal year.
   (B)   The director shall conduct a rescore inspection within seven (7) days
of receiving the request and submission of the inspection fee by the permittee.
   (C)   At the conclusion of the rescore inspection, the inspection summary
report shall be issued based upon the scoring method set forth in this chapter.
   (D)   A requested rescore inspection is separate and independent of all
inspection as determined by the director. (Ord. 727-07, 1-2-2007, eff. 7-1-
2007; amd. Ord. 836-20, 5-5-2020)
3-1.5-8: ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTIES:
Removal of the inspection summary report is a violation of this chapter and may
result in the suspension or revocation of the environmental health permit.
Any person who violates any of the provisions of this chapter is guilty of a
misdemeanor, and subject to the provisions as specified in Chapters 8.04 and
8.54 of the Kern County Code of Ordinances. (Ord. 727-07, 1-2-2007, eff. 7-1-
2007; amd. Ord. 836-20, 5-5-2020)
3-1.5-9: FOOD SAFETY EDUCATION:
   (A)   Intent: The purpose of this section is to establish standards for the
requirement of individuals to attend food safety education courses and to pass
a competency examination when found to have posed a risk to the safety of the
community.
   (B)   Incorporation By Reference: Pursuant to Government Code section
50022.1 et seq., ordinance G-8612 of the board of supervisors of the county of
Kern, state of California which adds chapter 8.59 to title 8 of the Kern County
ordinance code regarding food safety education and each and every term,
provision, rule, and regulation therein is hereby incorporated by this
reference as if fully set forth herein verbatim. (Ord. 820-16, 8-2-2016; amd.
Ord. 836-20, 5-5-2020)
CHAPTER 2
RECYCLABLE MATERIALS, ORGANIC MATERIALS,
AND SOLID WASTE
SECTION:
3-2-1: Purpose And Intent
3-2-2: Definitions
3-2-3: Collection - Franchise Requirements
3-2-4: Collection - Limitations
3-2-5:    Collection - Permitted Self-Hauler Requirements
3-2-6:    Collection - Frequency For Franchise Hauler
3-2-7: Collection - Rates
3-2-8:    Collection - Prohibited Materials
3-2-9:    Collection - Containers Provided By Franchise Hauler
3-2-10: Generator Requirements - Single-Family Generators
3-2-11: Generator Requirements - Multi-Family Generators
3-2-12: Generator Requirements - Commercial Businesses
3-2-13: Generator Requirements - Waivers For Commercial Businesses
3-2-14: Edible Food Recovery - Requirements For Commercial Edible Food
Generators
3-2-15: Edible Food Recovery - Requirements For Food Recovery Organizations And
Services
3-2-16: Storage And Accumulation Of Waste
3-2-17: Burying And Burning Prohibited
3-2-18: Scavenging
3-2-19: Alley Management
3-2-20: Illegal Dumping
3-2-21: Relocation Or Removal Of Encroachment
3-2-22: Inspections And Investigations By City
3-2-1: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
   (A)   Purpose: The City shall provide for solid waste, recyclable material,
and organic material handling services, including but not limited to the
collection, transfer, processing and disposal of solid waste, recyclable
material, and organic material within the City.
   The City Council finds that provision of solid waste, recyclable material,
and organic material handling services benefits all occupants of premises in
the City; and therefore, all such occupants are made liable for refuse
collection charges established by the City Council for solid waste, recyclable
material, and organic material handling services.
   (B)   Intent: It is the intent of the city council in enacting this chapter
to ensure compliance with this code and to deter violations of this code. (1-3-
1)
   Any person violating any provision of this code, as amended from time to
time, may be subject to the assessment of civil fines and penalties pursuant to
the administrative procedures established in Title I, Chapter 1 - 3 of the Taft
Municipal Code and as authorized by Government Code section 53069.4.
   Each and every day a violation of this code exists constitutes a separate
and distinct violation. (Ord. 632-95, 6-20-1995; amd. 797-13, 6-18-2013; Ord.
837-20, 8-18-2020)
3-2-2: DEFINITIONS:
The following definitions relate to terms used in this, Title III, Chapter 2:
 
            Any highway having a roadway not exceeding 25 feet in width which is
ALLEY:      primarily used for access to the rear or side entrances of abutting
            property.
CALIFORNIA  The State of California Code of Regulations. CCR references in this
CODE OF     ordinance are preceded with a number that refers to the relevant Title of
REGULATIONS the CCR (e.g., “14 CCR” refers to Title 14 of CCR).
or CCR:
            California’s Department of Resources Recycling and Recovery, which is the
CALRECYCLE: Department designated with responsibility for developing, implementing, and
            enforcing SB 1383 regulations on Cities (and others).
CITY:       The City of Taft.
CITY CODE   The City manager or his/her Designee(s) who shall be responsible for
ENFORCEMENT enforcement of City ordinance(s). Level of responsibility and/or authority
OFFICIAL:   shall be prescribed by City Manager. See also County Agency Enforcement
            Official.
 
 
CITATION or    Civil citation issued pursuant to Title 1, Chapter 1-3, stating that there
ADMINISTRATIVE has been a violation of one or more provisions of this code and setting the
CITATION:      amount of the administrative penalty to be paid by the responsible party.
CODE or        The City of Taft Municipal code, including all uniform codes incorporated by
MUNICIPAL CODE reference.
or ORDINANCE:
               A firm, partnership, proprietorship, joint-stock company, corporation, or
COMMERCIAL     association, whether for-profit or nonprofit, strip mall, industrial
BUSINESS or    facility, or a multifamily residential dwelling, or as otherwise defined in
COMMERCIAL:    14 CCR Section 18982(a)(6). A Multi-Family Residential Dwelling that consists
               of fewer than five (5) units is not a Commercial Business for purposes of
               implementing this ordinance.
               Includes a Tier One or a Tier Two Commercial Edible Food Generator as defined
COMMERCIAL     in this section or as otherwise defined in 14 CCR Section 18982(a) (73) and
EDIBLE FOOD    (a) (74). For the purposes of this definition, Food Recovery Organizations
GENERATOR:     and Food Recovery Services are not Commercial Edible Food Generators pursuant
               to 14 CCR Section 18982(a) (7).
               Any activity that composts Organic Material, agricultural material, food
COMMUNITY      material, and vegetative food material, alone or in combination, and the
COMPOSTING:    total amount of feedstock and Compost on-site at any one time does not exceed
               100 cubic yards and 750 square feet, as specified in 14 CCR Section 17855(a)
               (4); or, as otherwise defined by 14 CCR Section 18982(a)(8).
COMPLIANCE     A review of records by City to determine compliance with this ordinance.
REVIEW:
               Has the same meaning as in 14 CCR Section 17896.2(a)(4), which stated, as of
               the effective date of this ordinance, that “Compost” means the product
COMPOST:       resulting from the controlled biological decomposition of organic solid
               wastes that are Source Separated from the municipal Solid Waste stream, or
               which are separated at a centralized facility.
 
COMPOSTABLE
PLASTICS or   Plastic materials that meet the ASTM D6400 standard for compostability, or as
COMPOSTABLE   otherwise specified by 14 CCR Section 18982(a)(18).
PLASTIC:
CONTAMINATED  (i) Discarded Materials placed in a Recyclable Materials Container that are not
or            identified as Recyclable Materials; (ii) Discarded Materials placed in the
CONTAMINATION Organic Materials Container that are not identified as Organic Materials; (iii)
(or any       Discarded Materials placed in the Solid Waste Container that are identified as
variation     Recyclable Materials and/or Organic Materials, which are to be separately
thereof):     collected; and/or, (iv) Excluded Waste placed in any Container.
              A receptacle for temporary storage of Discarded Materials. Containers include,
CONTAINER(S): but are not limited to, bins, carts, roll-off boxes, compactors, cans, buckets,
              bags, or other storage instruments. (See also “One-Container System” and Three-
              Container System”)
CONTAINER
CONTAMINATION A Container, regardless of color, that contains Prohibited Container
or            Contaminants, or as otherwise defined in 14 CCR Section 18982(a)(55).
CONTAMINATED
CONTAINER:
COUNTY:       The County of Kern.
COUNTY AGENCY A County agency enforcement official, designated by the City with responsibility
ENFORCEMENT   for enforcing the ordinance in conjunction or consultation with City enforcement
OFFICIAL:     official.
DESIGNATED
SOURCE        As defined in 14 CCR Section 18982(14.5), means a Solid Waste facility that
SEPARATED     accepts a Source Separated Organic Material collection stream as defined in 14
ORGANIC WASTE CCR Section 17402(a)(18.6)
FACILITY:
              An entity that a City contracts with or otherwise arranges to carry out any of
DESIGNEE:     the City’s responsibilities of this ordinance and as authorized in 14 CCR Section
              18981.2. A Designee may be a government entity, a hauler, a private entity, or a
              combination of those entities.
 
 
DISCARDED    Recyclable Materials, Organic Materials, and/or Solid Waste, excluding Excluded
MATERIAL:    Waste.
             Food intended for human consumption, or as otherwise defined in 14 CCR Section
             18982(a)(18). For the purposes of this ordinance or as otherwise defined in 14
EDIBLE FOOD: CCR Section 18982(a)(18), “Edible Food” is not Solid Waste if it is recovered and
             not discarded. Nothing in this ordinance or in 14 CCR, Division 7, Chapter 12
             requires or authorizes the Recovery of Edible Food that does not meet the food
             safety requirements of the California Retail Food Code.
             an action of the City to address non-compliance with this ordinance including,
ENFORCEMENT: but not limited to, issuing administrative citations, fines, penalties, or using
             other remedies.
             Hazardous substance, hazardous waste, infectious waste, designated waste,
             volatile, corrosive, medical waste, infectious, regulated radioactive waste, and
             toxic substances or material that facility operator(s), which receive materials
             from the City and its generators, reasonably believe(s) would, as a result of or
             upon acceptance, transfer, processing, or disposal, be a violation of local,
             State, or Federal law, regulation, or ordinance, including: land use restrictions
             or conditions, waste that cannot be disposed of in Class III landfills or
             accepted at the facility by permit conditions, waste that in City’s, or its
EXCLUDED     Designee’s, reasonable opinion would present a significant risk to human health
WASTE or     or the environment, cause a nuisance or otherwise create or expose City, or its
PROHIBITED   Designee, to potential liability; but not including de minimis volumes or
WASTE:       concentrations of waste of a type and amount normally found in Single-Family or
             Multi-Family Solid Waste after implementation of programs for the safe
             collection, processing, recycling, treatment, and disposal of batteries and paint
             in compliance with Sections 41500 and 41802 of the California Public Resources
             Code. Excluded Waste does not include used motor oil and filters, or household
             batteries when such materials are defined as allowable materials for collection
             through the City’s collection programs and the generator or customer has properly
             placed the materials for collection pursuant to instructions provided by City or
             its Designee for collection services.
 
FOOD          A company that distributes food to entities including, but not limited to,
DISTRIBUTOR:  Supermarkets and Grocery Stores, or as otherwise defined in 14 CCR Section 18982
              (a)(22).
FOOD          Has the same meaning as in Section 113789 of the Health and Safety Code.
FACILITY:
FOOD          Actions to collect and distribute food for human consumption which otherwise
RECOVERY:     would be disposed, or as otherwise defined in 14 CCR Section 18982(a)(24).
              An entity that engages in the collection or receipt of Edible Food from
FOOD RECOVERY Commercial Edible Food Generators and distributes that Edible Food to the public
ORGANIZATION: for Food Recovery either directly or through other entities, including, but not
              limited to:
             (1)   A food bank as defined in Section 113783 of the Health and Safety Code;
             (2)   A nonprofit charitable organization as defined in Section 113841 of the
              Health and Safety code; and,
             (3)   A nonprofit charitable temporary Food Facility as defined in Section
              113842 of the Health and Safety Code.
              A Food Recovery Organization is not a Commercial Edible Food Generator for the
              purposes of this ordinance and implementation of 14 CCR, Division 7, Chapter 12
             pursuant to 14 CCR Section 18982(a)(7). If the definition in 14 CCR Section
              18982(a)(25) for Food Recovery Organization differs from this definition, the
              definition in 14 CCR Section 18982(a)(25) shall apply to this ordinance.
              A person who or entity that collects and transports Edible Food from a
              Commercial Edible Food Generator to a Food Recovery Organization or other
FOOD RECOVERY entities for Food Recovery, or as otherwise defined in 14 CCR Section 18982(a)
SERVICE:      (26). A Food Recovery Service is not a Commercial Edible Food Generator for the
              purposes of this ordinance and implementation of 14 CCR, Division 7, Chapter 12
              pursuant to 14 CCR Section 18982(a)(7).
 
 
                       All food such as, but not limited to, fruits,
                       vegetables, meat, poultry, seafood, shellfish, bones,
FOOD SCRAPS:           rice, beans, pasta, bread, cheese, and eggshells. Food
                       scraps excludes fats, oils, and grease when such
                       materials are Source Separated from other Food Scraps.
                       An entity primarily engaged in providing food services
                       to institutional, governmental, Commercial, or
FOOD SERVICE PROVIDER: industrial locations of others based on contractual
                       arrangements with these types of organizations, or as
                       otherwise defined in 14 CCR Section 18982(a)(27).
                       Compostable paper material that has come in contact with
FOOD-SOILED PAPER:     food or liquid, such as, but not limited to, compostable
                       paper plates, paper coffee cups, napkins, pizza boxes,
                       and milk cartons.
FOOD WASTE:            Food Scraps, Food-Soiled Paper, and Compostable
                       Plastics.
                       The written agreement between City and Franchise Hauler,
FRANCHISE AGREEMENT:   including all exhibits, and any future amendments
                       thereto.
                       A company organized and operating under the laws of the
                       State and its officers, directors, employees, agents,
                       companies, related-parties, affiliates, subsidiaries,
FRANCHISE HAULER:      and Subcontractors that has a Franchise Agreement with
                       the City for purposes of the Collection, Recycling,
                       Processing, Composting, and/or Disposal of Discarded
                       Material.
                       A store primarily engaged in the retail sale of canned
                       food; dry goods; fresh fruits and vegetables; fresh
                       meats, fish, and poultry; and any area that is not
GROCERY STORE:         separately owned within the store where the food is
                       prepared and served, including a bakery, deli, and meat
                       and seafood departments, or as otherwise defined in 14
                       CCR Section 18982(a)(30).
 
HAULER      The designated itinerary or sequence of stops for each segment of the City’s
ROUTE:      collection service area, or as otherwise defined in 14 CCR Section 18982(a)
            (31.5).
HIGH        A facility that is in compliance with the reporting requirements of 14 CCR
DIVERSION   Section 18815.5(d) and meets or exceeds an annual average Mixed Waste organic
ORGANIC     content Recovery rate of 50 percent between January 1, 2022 and December 31,
MATERIALS   2024, and 75 percent after January 1, 2025 as calculated pursuant to 14 CCR
PROCESSING  Section 18815.5(e) for Organic Material received from the One-Container
FACILITY:   System.
            A site visit where a City reviews records, Containers, and an entity’s
            collection, handling, recycling, or landfill disposal of Organic Material or
INSPECTION: Edible Food handling to determine if the entity is complying with requirements
            set forth in this ordinance, or as otherwise defined in 14 CCR Section 18982
            (a)(35).
            An event, including, but not limited to, a sporting event or a flea market,
            that charges an admission price, or is operated by a local agency, and serves
            an average of more than 2,000 individuals per day of operation of the event,
LARGE       at a location that includes, but not limited to, a public, nonprofit, or
EVENT:      privately owned park, parking lot, golf course, street system, or other open
            space when being used for an event. If the definition in 14 CCR Section 18982
            (a)(38) differs from this definition, the definition in 14 CCR Section 18982
            (a)(38) shall apply to this ordinance.
            A permanent venue facility that annually seats or serves an average of more
            than 2,000 individuals within the grounds of the facility per day of operation
            of the venue facility. For purposes of this ordinance and implementation of 14
            CCR, Division 7, Chapter 12, a venue facility includes, but is not limited to,
            a public, nonprofit, or privately owned or operated stadium, amphitheater,
LARGE       arena, hall, amusement park, conference or civic center, zoo, aquarium,
VENUE:      airport, racetrack, horse track, performing arts center, fairground, museum,
            theater, or other public attraction facility. For purposes of this ordinance
            and implementation of 14 CCR, Division 7, Chapter 12, a site under common
            ownership or control that includes more than one Large Venue that is
            contiguous with other Large Venues in the site, is a single Large Venue. If
            the definition in 14 CCR Section 18982(a)(39) differs from this definition,
            the definition in 14 CCR Section 18982(a)(39) shall apply to this ordinance.
 
MIXED WASTE: Solid Waste, and/or Recyclable Material, and/or Organic Materials that is not
             source-separated and is combined in one Container.
MULTI-FAMILY
RESIDENTIAL  Of, from, or pertaining to residential premises with five (5) or more dwelling
DWELLING or  units. Multi-family premises do not include hotels, motels, or other transient
MULTI-       occupancy facilities, which are considered Commercial Businesses.
FAMILY:
NON-         Includes but is not limited to paper that is coated in a plastic material that
COMPOSTAB LE will not breakdown in the composting process, or as otherwise defined in 14
PAPER:       CCR Section 18982(a)(41).
NON-LOCAL    The following entities that are not subject to the City’s enforcement
ENTITY:      authority, or as otherwise defined in 14 CCR Section 18982(a)(42):
            (1)   Special district(s) located within the boundaries of the City.
            (2)   Federal facilities located within the boundaries of the City.
            (3)   Prison(s) located within the boundaries of the City.
            (4)   Public universities (including community colleges) located within the
             boundaries of the City.
            (5)   State agencies located within the boundaries of the City.
            (6)   Military installations located within the boundaries of the City.
NON-ORGANIC  Non-putrescible and non-hazardous Recyclable Materials including but not
RECYCLABLES: limited to bottles, cans, metals, plastics and glass, or as otherwise defined
             in 14 CCR Section 18982(a)(43).
 
 
NOTICE OF   A notice that a violation has occurred that includes a compliance date to avoid
VIOLATION   an action to seek penalties, or as otherwise defined in 14 CCR Section 18982(a)
(NOV):      (45).
ONE-        A collection system in which the generator is not required to source separate
CONTAINER   Discarded Materials for collection. All Discarded Material is to be combined and
SYSTEM:     placed into one Container. This definition does not apply if the City has
            converted to a Three-Container System. (See Three-Container System).
            Solid wastes containing material originated from living organisms and their
            metabolic waste products, including but not limited to food, Organic Material,
            landscape and pruning waste, organic textiles and carpets, lumber, wood, Paper
ORGANIC     Products, Printing and Writing Paper, manure, biosolids, digestate, and sludges
MATERIAL:   or as otherwise defined in 14 CCR Section 18982(a)(46). Biosolids and digestate
            are as defined by 14 CCR Section 18982(a). In a Three-Container System, “Organic
            Material” is Source Separated into multiple Containers with: a) Paper Products,
            printing, and writing paper placed in the Recyclable Materials Container; and, b)
            food and Organic Material are placed in the Organic Materials Container.
ORGANIC     Has the same meaning as in 14 CCR Section 18982.2(a)(29) and shall be used for
MATERIALS   the purpose of storage and collection of Source Separated Organic Material. This
CONTAINER:  definition shall be applicable if City has converted to a Three-Container System.
ORGANIC     A person or entity that is responsible for the initial creation of Organic
MATERIALS   Material, or as otherwise defined in 14 CCR Section 18982(a)(48).
GENERATOR:
ORGANIC
MATERIALS   Or any variation of RECOVERY means any activity or process described in 14 CCR
RECOVERY    Section 18983.1(b), or as otherwise defined in 14 CCR Section 18982(a)(49).
ACTIVITIES:
PAPER       Include, but are not limited to, paper janitorial supplies, cartons, wrapping,
PRODUCTS:   packaging, file folders, hanging files, corrugated boxes, tissue, and toweling,
            or as otherwise defined in 14 CCR Section 18982(a)(51).
 
 
             A person, who hauls Solid Waste, Organic Material or Recyclable Material he or
             she has generated to a permitted facility. This includes contractors or
             builders removing debris, rubbish and trash from construction sites;
PERMITTED    landscapers, gardeners, or other agricultural debris haulers; industrial waste
SELF-HAULER  haulers; or any person applying and obtaining a permit in writing from the
or SELF-     director of public works. Self-hauler also includes a person who back-hauls
HAULER:      waste, or as otherwise defined in 14 CCR Section 18982(a)(66). Back-haul means
             generating and transporting Organic Material to a destination owned and
             operated by the generator using the generator’s own employees and equipment, or
             as otherwise defined in 14 CCR Section 18982(a)(66)(A).
             Include, but are not limited to, copy, xerographic, watermark, cotton fiber,
PRINTING AND offset, forms, computer printout paper, white wove envelopes, manila envelopes,
WRITING      book paper, note pads, writing tablets, newsprint, and other uncoated writing
PAPERS:      papers, posters, index cards, calendars, brochures, reports, magazines, and
             publications, or as otherwise defined in 14 CCR Section 18982(a)(54).
             (i) Discarded Materials placed in the Recyclable Materials Container that is
PROHIBITED   not identified as acceptable Source Separated Recyclable Materials for the
CONTAINER    City’s Recyclable Materials Container; (ii) Discarded Materials placed in the
CONTAMINANTS Organic Materials Container that is not identified as acceptable Source
(as applied  Separated Organic Material for the City’s Organic Materials Container; (iii)
to a THREE-  any amount of Source Separated Recyclable Materials and/or Source Separated
CONTAINER    Organic Materials that are placed into the Solid Waste Container, instead of
SYSTEM):     being placed in their Organic Material Container or Recyclable Material
             Containers respectively; and, (iv) Excluded Waste placed in any Container.
RECOVERED
ORGANIC      The amount of Organic Material in the form of a Recovered Organic Material
MATERIAL     Product which a City is required to procure annually, or as otherwise defined
PRODUCT      in 14 CCR Section 18982(a)(59).
PROCUREMENT
TARGET:
 
 
RECOVERED   Products made from California, landfill-diverted recovered Organic Material
ORGANIC     processed in a permitted or otherwise authorized facility, or as otherwise
MATERIAL    defined in 14 CCR Section 18982(a)(60).
PRODUCTS:
            Source Separated Recyclable Materials that are considered Organic Material
RECYCLABLE  such as Paper Products and Printing and Writing Paper, wood, dry lumber, and
MATERIAL:   textiles or as otherwise defined by Section 17402(a)(18.7).This definition
            also includes Source Separated Non-Organic Recyclables.
RECYCLED-   Paper Products and Printing and Writing Paper that consists of at least 30
CONTENT     percent, by fiber weight, postconsumer fiber, or as otherwise defined in 14
PAPER:      CCR Section 18982(a)(61).
            The use of the internet of things (IoT) and/or wireless electronic devices to
REMOTE      visualize the contents of Recyclable Material Containers, Organic Material
MONITORING: Containers, and Solid Waste Containers for purposes of identifying the
            quantity of materials in Containers (level of fill) and/or presence of
            Prohibited Container Contaminants.
            Gas derived from Organic Material that has been diverted from a California
RENEWABLE   landfill and processed at an in-vessel digestion facility that is permitted or
GAS:        otherwise authorized by 14 CCR to recycle Organic Material, or as otherwise
            defined in 14 CCR Section 18982(a)(62).
RESIDUAL    Material that remains after Organic Material has been processed which is then
ORGANIC     sent to landfill disposal, or as otherwise defined in 14 CCR Section 18982(a)
MATERIAL:   (63).
            An individual, association, partnership, political subdivision, government
            agency, municipality, limited liability company, public or private
RESPONSIBLE corporation, firm, organization, joint venture or any other entity whatsoever
PARTY:      whose action or actions caused or contributed to violations of codes specified
            in this chapter. “Responsible party” also includes property owners and
            lessees.
 
 
            An establishment primarily engaged in the retail sale of food and drinks for
RESTAURANT: on-premises or immediate consumption, or as otherwise defined in 14 CCR
            Section 18982(a)(64).
            A visual Inspection of Containers along a Hauler Route for the purpose of
ROUTE       determining Container Contamination, and may include mechanical Inspection
REVIEW:     methods such as the use of cameras, or as otherwise defined in 14 CCR Section
            18982(a)(65).
            Senate Bill 1383 of 2016 approved by the Governor on September 19, 2016, which
            added Sections 39730.5, 39730.6, 39730.7, and 39730.8 to the Health and Safety
            Code, and added Chapter 13.1 (commencing with Section 42652) to Part 3 of
            Division 30 of the Public Resources Code, establishing methane emissions
SB 1383:    reduction targets in a statewide effort to reduce emissions of short-lived
            climate pollutants as amended, supplemented, superseded, and replaced from
            time to time. For the purposes of this ordinance, SB 1383 specifically refers
            to the Short-Lived Climate Pollutants: Organic Waste Reduction regulations
            developed by CalRecycle that created 14 CCR, Division 7, Chapter 12 and
            amended portions of regulations of 14 CCR and 27 CCR.
SINGLE-     Of, from, or pertaining to any residential premises with fewer than Five (5)
FAMILY:     units.
            Solid waste as defined in California Public Resources Code, Division 30, Part
            1, Chapter 2, §40191 and regulations promulgated hereunder. Excluded from the
            definition of Solid Waste are Excluded Waste, C&D, Source Separated Recyclable
            Materials, Source Separated Organic Materials, and radioactive waste.
            Notwithstanding any provision to the contrary, Solid Waste may include de
SOLID       minimis volumes or concentrations of waste of a type and amount normally found
WASTE:      in residential Solid Waste after implementation of programs for the safe
            Collection, Recycling, treatment, and Disposal of Household Hazardous Waste in
            compliance with Section 41500 and 41802 of the California Public Resources
            Code as may be amended from time to time. Solid Waste includes salvageable
            materials only when such materials are included for Collection in a Solid
            Waste Container not Source Separated from Solid Waste at the site of
            generation.
 
 
             Materials, including commingled Recyclable Materials, that have been
             separated or kept separate from the Solid Waste stream, at the point of
             generation, for the purpose of additional sorting or processing those
             materials for recycling or reuse in order to return them to the economic
SOURCE       mainstream in the form of raw material for new, reused, or reconstituted
SEPARATE or  products which meet the quality standards necessary to be used in the
variations   marketplace, or as otherwise defined in 14 CCR Section 17402.5(b)(4). For
thereof:     the purposes of the ordinance, Source Separated shall include separation of
             materials by the generator, property owner, property owner’s employee,
             property manager, or property manager’s employee into different Containers
             for the purpose of collection such that Source Separated materials are
             separated from Mixed Waste.
SOURCE       Source Separated Organic Material that can be placed in an Organic
SEPARATED    Container, under the Three Container System, that is specifically intended
ORGANIC      for the separate collection of Organic Material by the generator, excluding
MATERIAL:    Source Separated Recyclable Materials Container Organic Material, carpets,
             Non-Compostable Paper, and textiles.
SOURCE       Source Separated Recyclable Materials that are considered Organic Material
SEPARATED    such as Paper Products and Printing and Writing Paper, wood, dry lumber, and
RECYCLABLE   textiles or as otherwise defined by Section 17402(a)(18.7).This definition
MATERIAL:    also includes Source Separated Non-Organic Recyclables.
             A full-line, self-service retail store with gross annual sales of two
SUPERMARKET: million dollars ($2,000,000), or more, and which sells a line of dry
             grocery, canned goods, or nonfood items and some perishable items, or as
             otherwise defined in 14 CCR Section 18982(a)(71).
             A collection system in which generators are required to source separate
THREE-       Discarded Materials into three streams:
CONTAINER    Solid Waste, Source Separated Recyclable Materials and Source Separated
SYSTEM:      Organic Materials for placement in Containers specifically designated for
             those materials.
 
TIER ONE   A Commercial Edible Food Generator that is one of the following:
COMMERCIAL (1)   Supermarket.
EDIBLE     (2)   Grocery Store with a total facility size equal to or greater than 10,000
FOOD       square feet.
GENERATOR:
          (3)   Food Service Provider.
          (4)   Food Distributor.
          (5)   Wholesale Food Vendor.
           If the definition in 14 CCR Section 18982(a)(73) of Tier One Commercial Edible
          Food Generator differs from this definition, the definition in 14 CCR Section
           18982(a)(73) shall apply to this ordinance.
TIER TWO   A Commercial Edible Food Generator that is one of the following:
COMMERCIAL
EDIBLE     (1)   Restaurant with 250 or more seats, or a total facility size equal to or
FOOD       greater than 5,000 square feet.
GENERATOR:
          (2)   Hotel with an on-site Food Facility and 200 or more rooms.
          (3)   Health facility with an on-site Food Facility and 100 or more beds.
          (4)   Large venue.
          (5)   Large event.
          (6)   A state agency with a cafeteria with 250 or more seats or total cafeteria
           facility size equal to or greater than 5,000 square feet.
          (7)   A local education agency facility with an on-site Food Facility.
 
 
                       If the definition in 14 CCR Section 18982(a)(74) of Tier
                      Two Commercial Edible Food Generator differs from this
                       definition, the definition in 14 CCR Section 18982(a)
                       (74) shall apply to this ordinance.
                       If the City establishes a Three-Container System,
                       Commercial Businesses may apply for waivers where
                       practical difficulties with respect to any particular
                       premises or where unnecessary hardship will be caused by
WAIVER HOLDER:         complying with this Chapter. Under these circumstances,
                       the City Manager or his/her Designee may issue special
                       written permits (waivers) authorizing variations from
                       the provisions of this Chapter. Special written permits
                       include de minimis waivers and physical space waivers.
                       A business or establishment engaged in the merchant
                       wholesale distribution of food, where food (including
                       fruits and vegetables) is received, shipped, stored,
WHOLESALE FOOD VENDOR: prepared for distribution to a retailer, warehouse,
                       distributor, or other destination, or as otherwise
                       defined in 14 CCR Section 189852(a)(76). (Ord. 837, 8-
                       18-2020)
 
3-2-3: COLLECTION - FRANCHISE REQUIREMENTS:
   (A)   The City may contract for Discarded Material services, and such
services may be the exclusive right of the Franchise Hauler. Subject to
provisions and exclusions as reflected in a written agreement between City and
Franchise Hauler. The agreement shall, at a minimum, identify the services to
be provided for, including, but not limited to: type of material to be
collected, frequency of collection, and planned disposition of material
following collection. The agreement shall additionally describe effective date
of the agreement, the term, and shall identify any and all options for term
extension, and the rates and/or fees to be charged to ratepayers as approved by
council. If a conflict is discovered in relation to the exclusive franchise
with Franchise Hauler, the franchise agreement, and any amendments thereto,
shall control.
   (B)   Exclusive Franchise Hauler providing residential, commercial, or
industrial Discarded Material collection services to generators within the
City’s boundaries, shall meet the requirements and standards established by the
City Council as a condition of approval of an agreement.
   (C)   All Discarded Materials collected within the City’s boundaries, shall
be delivered to transfer, processing and disposal facilities under such
conditions as the City Council may designate and in accordance with applicable
law.
   (D)   The City Manager or his/her Designee shall have charge and supervision
of such Solid Waste, Recyclable Materials, and Organic Material handling
services from the various parts of the City so as to conform to the provisions
of this Chapter. Franchise Hauler shall report routes and days of collection as
required in the Franchise Agreement, should any routes be changed at any point,
Franchise Hauler shall give notice thereof in such manner as City Manager or
his/her Designee deems best.
   Every person shall place and keep Solid Waste, Recyclable Materials, and
Organic Materials in the City Containers as required in this Chapter.
   (E)   The exclusive Franchise Hauler shall comply with education, equipment,
signage, Container labeling, Container color, contamination monitoring,
reporting and other requirements contained within its franchise agreement
entered into with City.
   (F)   The City and its duly authorized agents, servants and employees, or
any other contractors with whom the City may at any time enter into a contract
or franchise therefor, and the agents, servants and employees of such
contractors, while any such contract shall be in force, shall have the
exclusive right to services as identified in this Chapter, and in the Franchise
Agreement, from all premises in the City (unless otherwise noted herein or in
the Agreement); and no person shall provide services, convey or transport any
material in, along or over any public street, Alley or highway in the City, or
take any materials from any Container in which the same may be placed for
collection or removal, or interfere with or disturb any such Container, or
remove any such Container from any location where the same is placed by the
owner thereof. (Ord. 837-20, 8-18-2020)
3-2-4: COLLECTION - LIMITATIONS:
   (A)   The exclusive right of any Franchise Hauler to collect Solid Waste,
Recyclable Materials, and Organic Materials is subject to the following
exclusions and any additional exclusions identified in Agreement:
      1.   Self Haul: Solid waste, Recyclable Material, and/or Organic
Materials may be removed and personally transported from a premises by the
owner or occupant for the purpose of lawfully delivering same to a facility
authorized and permitted to receive and handle such materials. Owners or
occupants may delegate the responsibility of delivering such materials to a
facility to a third party if it is done on a voluntary basis and no
compensation is tendered in exchange for the service or rental of Containers.
      2.   Gardeners and Landscapers: A gardener or landscaper may collect,
transport, and dispose of yard wastes generated as an incidental part of
providing gardening, landscape maintenance service, provided the gardener or
landscaper shall not be a hauling service or solid waste enterprise, and shall
not separately or additionally charge for the incidental service of removing,
transporting, or disposing of the yard waste, and shall use only employees and
equipment to collect, transport, and dispose of same.
      3.   Contractors and Remodelers: A construction contractor, holding a
contractor’s license issued by the State of California, may collect, transport,
and dispose of inert materials or C&D waste from remodeling or construction
jobs generated as an incidental part of providing such remodeling or
construction services, if the construction contractor is not a hauling service
or solid waste enterprise, does not separately or additionally charge for the
incidental service of removing, transporting, or disposing of the inert
materials or demolition waste, and use only employees and equipment to collect,
transport, and dispose of same.
      4.   Other: Additional limitations and exclusions as may be set forth in
the Franchise Agreement. (Ord. 837-20, 8-18-2020)
3-2-5: COLLECTION - PERMITTED SELF-HAULER REQUIREMENTS:
   (A)   Permitted Self-Haulers shall: (1) Source Separate all Recyclable
Materials and Organic Material (materials that City otherwise collects in their
Organic Materials and Recyclable Materials collection services) generated on
site from Solid Waste in a manner consistent with 14 CCR Sections 18984.1 and
18984.2, and transport Solid Waste to permitted transfer or disposal facility;
or, (2) haul Organic Material to a High Diversion Organic Materials Processing
Facility as specified in 14 CCR Section 18984.3.
   (B)   Permitted Self-Haulers shall haul their Source Separated Recyclable
Materials to a facility that recovers those materials; and haul their Organic
Material to a Solid Waste facility, operation, activity or property that
processes or recovers Source Separated Organic Material. Alternatively, Self-
Haulers may haul Mixed Material to a High Diversion Organic Material Processing
Facility.
   (C)   Permitted Self-Haulers that are Commercial Businesses (including
Multi-Family Self-Haulers) shall keep a record of the amount of Organic
Material delivered to each Solid Waste facility, operation, activity, or
property that processes or recovers Organic Material; this record shall be
subject to Inspection by the City. The records shall include the following
information:
      1.   Delivery receipts and weight tickets from the entity accepting the
waste.
      2.   The amount of material in cubic yards or tons transported by the
generator to each entity.
      3.   If the material is transported to an entity that does not have
scales on-site, the Self-Hauler is not required to record the weight of
material but shall keep a record of the entities that received the Organic
Material.
   (D)   A Self-Hauler must apply for a Self-Hauler Permit in accordance with
City’s administrative policies (which may include, but are not limited to fees
and the requirement to provide additional information). These requirements may
change at any time without notice.
   (E)   A residential Organic Material Generator that self-hauls Organic
Material is not required to record or report information in Section 3-2-5(C).
(Ord. 837-20, 8-18-2020)
3-2-6: COLLECTION - FREQUENCY FOR FRANCHISE HAULER:
   (A)   The Franchise Hauler shall collect Discarded Materials located at or
resulting from the lawful use of occupied property. Collection days shall be
Monday through Friday of each week and collection hours shall be from 5:00 a.m.
until 4:00 p.m., unless otherwise determined by Franchise Hauler and approved
by the City Manager or his/her Designee, whereupon notice in writing specifying
the days of collection shall be given by the Franchise Hauler to all persons
within the City of whom the service is rendered. Containers shall not be placed
for service or be serviced by the Franchise Hauler less frequently than once
each seven (7) days.
   (B)   The City Manager or his/her Designee may authorize the collection of
waste at times or from places otherwise prohibited by this chapter if such
collection is necessary for the protection of the property or health and safety
of the general public. (Ord. 837-20, 8-18-2020)
3-2-7: COLLECTION - RATES:
   (A)   The monthly collection, and processing, and street sweeping rates will
be reviewed at least once each year by the City staff and adjusted by the City
council where necessary; provided, however, that any homeowner may request such
a review if they believe the fee being charged is not a reasonable estimate of
their actual cost of service.
   (B)   The base service rates will be billed annually on the County property
tax bill for Single-Family dwellings, duplexes, triplexes, Multi-Family
dwellings, and mobile home parks. In all other cases, the fees and/or
additional services provided by Franchise Hauler, shall be billed directly by
Franchise Hauler.
   (C)   Special collection services required by any user on a regular basis,
or for a large or unique circumstances, shall be charged at a rate as approved
by City Council. Special charges shall be collected from the tenant or property
owner by the City on a periodic basis.
   (D)   Should the tenant neglect to pay the fee, such fee shall be paid by
the property owner or become a lien against the property and attach such liens
on the next regulator bill levied against the parcel and the amount of the
assessment to be collected at the same time and in the same manner as ordinary
City taxes are collected and that said assessment shall be subject to the same
penalties and interest and to the same procedures for foreclosure and sale in
the case of delinquency as are provided for ordinary City taxes.
   (E)   A ten percent (10%) late charge (or $1.00 whichever is greater) will
be added to unpaid bills after thirty (30) days from due date. Said late charge
and additional penalties as specified in the Health and Safety Code shall be
made on the unpaid balance of the bill.
   (F)   Any fees authorized pursuant to Section
3-2-7  of this chapter which remain unpaid for a period of four (4) or more
months after the date upon which they were billed may be collected thereafter
by the City as provided in this Section:
      1.   At the time the fees for owner-occupied property become delinquent,
until such time as they are fully paid, the delinquent account balance,
including late charges, shall constitute an unrecorded lien against the
property and, as such, may be identified during a title search. For Commercial
Businesses, delinquent account balances, including late charges, may be
considered an unrecorded lien against the business name and/or owner of the
business.
      2.   Once a year the City Council may cause to be prepared a report of
delinquent fees including late charges. The Council shall fix a time, date and
place for hearing the report and receive any objections or protests thereto.
      3.   The Council shall cause notice of hearing to be mailed to the
landowners listed on the report not less than ten days prior to the date of the
hearing.
      4.   At a hearing the Council shall hear any objections or protests of
landowners liable to be assessed for delinquent fees, including late charges
and administrative fees, as set by resolution of the City Council. The Council
may make revisions or corrections to the report as it deems just, after which,
by resolution, the report shall be confirmed.
      5.   The delinquent fees set forth in the report as confirmed shall
constitute special assessments against the respective parcels of land and are a
lien on the property for the amount of such delinquent fees including late
charges. A certified copy of the confirmed report shall be filed with the
County auditor for the amounts or the respective assessments against the
respective parcels of land as they appear on the current assessment roll. The
lien(s) created attaches upon recordation, in the office of the County recorder
of the County in which the property is situated, of a certified copy of the
resolution of confirmation. The assessment may be collected at the same time
and in the same manner as ordinary County ad valorem property taxes are
collected and shall be subject to the same penalties and the same procedure and
sale in case of delinquency as provided for such taxes. All laws applicable to
the levy, collection and enforcement of County ad valorem property taxes shall
be applicable to such assessment; except, that if any real property to which
such lien would attach has been transferred or conveyed to a bona fide
purchaser for value, or if a lien of a bona fide purchaser for value, or if a
lien of a bona fide encumbrance for value has been created and attached
thereon, prior to the date on which the first installment of such taxes would
become delinquent, then the lien which would otherwise be imposed by this
Section shall not attach to such real property and the delinquent fees, as
confirmed, relating to such property shall be transferred to the unsecured roll
for collection and recorded in the name of the prior property owner following
City policies and procedures.
      6.   In addition to, or in lieu of other collection processes, delinquent
balances may be processed through a collection bureau.
      7.   In addition or in the alternative, and at the option of the City,
the City may file a civil action for the collection of any amounts due and
unpaid. This remedy shall be cumulative and in addition to the remedy of means
of enforcing payment of the sum required to be paid by this chapter stated in
Subsection 1. through 7.
      8.   The City Manager may authorize refunds for disposal or processing
fees pursuant to the City’s policies and procedures concerning such refunds.
(Ord. 837-20, 8-18-2020)
3-2-8: COLLECTION - PROHIBITED MATERIALS:
Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this chapter, neither the terms
“Mixed Waste”, “Mixed materials”, nor the term “Solid Waste” shall be deemed
hereunder to mean or include heavy bulky or hazardous materials, earth, sod,
waste oil, brick, stone, concrete, rolled carpet, tires, roofing materials,
mortar or other debris or waste incident to the construction or demolition of
buildings, or tree trunks or limbs, and none of said materials shall be placed
by a person in Containers or otherwise for collection and disposal by the City
or Franchise Hauler because of dimension, density, weight, but the same shall
be disposed of by the person having the possession, charge, control or
supervision of the premises from which any such materials emanate, result or
are produced. (Ord. 837-20, 8-18-2020)
3-2-9: COLLECTION - CONTAINERS PROVIDED BY FRANCHISE HAULER:
   (A)   The Franchise Hauler shall furnish all Discarded Material Containers
to serve all customers in the City that subscribed to Franchise Hauler’s
collection services, with the exception of Compactors.
   (B)   The Franchise Hauler will provide customers with a One-Container
System or a Three-Container System as directed by the City Manager under the
terms of the Franchise Agreement. (Ord. 837-20, 8-18-2020)
3-2-10: GENERATOR REQUIREMENTS - SINGLE-FAMILY GENERATORS:
Single-family generators (except Single-Family generators that meet the Self-
Hauler requirements in Section
3-2-5  of this ordinance) shall:
   (A)   Every person who owns, and every person who occupies, developed and
occupied real property shall subscribe to the Franchise Hauler’s One-Container
System or Three-Container System, as designated by the City for all generators,
and for all Discarded Materials generated, at rates not to exceed those
approved by the City Council.
   (B)   Participate in the Franchise Hauler’s Discarded Materials collection
service(s) by placing designated Discarded Materials in designated Containers.
   (C)   City shall be held harmless for loss occasioned by entry upon the
property for collection service by Franchise Hauler.
   (D)   City Manager or his/her Designee shall have the right to review the
number and size of a generator’s Containers to evaluate adequacy of capacity
provided for each type of collection service for proper separation of materials
and containment of materials; and, Single-Family generators shall adjust its
service level for its collection services as requested by the City.
   (E)   Generators may additionally manage their Discarded Materials by
preventing or reducing the amount of Discarded Materials; managing Organic
Material on site through composting; or delivering Organic Material to a
Community Composting site pursuant to 14 CCR Section 18984.9(c).
   (F)   It shall be the duty of every person occupying a dwelling unit within
the City to keep the premises in their control in a “sanitary condition”, which
is hereby defined to mean that all parts thereof are free and clean of any
accumulation of Discarded Material.
   (G)   The Discarded Material Containers shall be filled no more than level
full and shall have the lids of such Containers kept closed and locked (if
applicable), except when depositing waste, to prevent scavenging. (Ord. 837-20,
8-18-2020)
3-2-11: GENERATOR REQUIREMENTS - MULTI-FAMILY GENERATORS:
Multi-Family generators (except Multi-Family generators that meet the Self-
Hauler requirements in Section
3-2-5  of this ordinance) shall:
   (A)   Subscribe to the Franchise Haulers One-Container System or Three-
Container System for all Discarded Materials generated. City or his/her
Designee shall have the right to review the number and size of a generator’s
Containers and frequency of collection to evaluate adequacy of capacity
provided for each type of collection service; and, Multi-Family Dwelling shall
adjust its service level for its collection services as requested by the City,
if City determines that inappropriate level of service results in generators
non-compliance with this Chapter.
   (B)   Participate in the Franchise Hauler’s Discarded Materials collection
service(s) by placing Discarded Materials designated materials in designated
Containers.
   (C)   Supply and allow access to adequate number, size and location of
collection Containers for employees, contractors, tenants, and customers,
consistent with City’s approved Container collection service.
   (D)   If the City establishes a Three-Container System, Multi-Family
property owners shall:
      1.   Annually provide information to employees, contractors, tenants, and
customers about Organic Material Recovery requirements and about proper sorting
of Source Separated Organic Material and Source Separated Recyclable Materials
into Recyclable Material and Organic Material Containers.
      2.   Provide education information before or within fourteen (14) days of
occupation of the premises to new tenants that describes requirements to keep
Source Separated Organic Material and Source Separated Recyclable Materials
separate from Solid Waste (when applicable) and the location of Containers and
the rules governing their use at each property.
   (E)   Provide or arrange access for City or its agent to their properties
during all Inspections conducted in accordance with Section 3-2-22 to confirm
compliance with the requirements of this ordinance.
   (F)   Nothing in this section prohibits a generator from preventing or
reducing waste generation, managing Organic Material on site, or using a
Community Composting site pursuant to 14 CCR Section 18984.9(c).
   (G)   It shall be the duty of every person in possession, charge or control
of any Multi-family residential property within the City to keep the premises
in their control in a “sanitary condition”, which is hereby defined to mean
that all parts thereof are free and clean of any accumulation of Discarded
Material.
   (H)   The Containers shall be filled no more than level full and shall have
the lids of such portable Containers kept closed and locked (if applicable),
except when depositing waste, to prevent scavenging.
   (I)   Multi-family residential dwellings are not required to comply with
Container placement requirements or labeling requirement in Section 3-2-12(D)
pursuant to 14 CCR Section 18984.9(b). (Ord. 837-20, 8-18-2020)
3-2-12: GENERATOR REQUIREMENTS - COMMERCIAL BUSINESSES:
Commercial Business generators (which does not include Multi-Family Residential
Dwellings, and is not a Commercial Business generators that meets the Self-
Hauler requirements in Section
3-2-5  of this ordinance) shall:
   (A)   Subscribe to the Franchise Haulers One-Container System or Three-
Container System for all Discarded Materials generated. City or his/her
Designee shall have the right to review the number and size of a generator’s
Containers and frequency of collection to evaluate adequacy of capacity
provided for each type of collection service; and, Commercial Businesses shall
adjust its service level for its collection services as requested by the City.
   (B)   Participate in the Franchise Hauler’s Discarded Materials collection
service(s) by placing designated materials in designated Containers.
   (C)   Supply and allow access to adequate number, size and location of
collection Containers with sufficient labels or colors (conforming with
Sections
3-2-12  (D)1. and (D)2. below) for employees, contractors, tenants, and
customers, consistent with City’s Discarded Materials collection service.
   (D)   Shall, if the City establishes a Three-Container System, Commercial
Businesses, excluding Multi-Family Residential Dwellings:
      1.   Provide Containers for the collection of Source Separated Organic
Material and Source Separated Recyclable Materials in all indoor and outdoor
areas where Containers are provided for customers, for materials generated by
that business. Such Containers do not need to be provided in restrooms. If a
Commercial Business does not generate any of the materials that would be
collected in one type of Container, then the business does not have to provide
that particular Container in all areas where disposal Containers are provided
for customers. Pursuant to 14 CCR Section 18984.9(b), the Containers provided
by the business shall have either:
         (a)   A body or lid that conforms with the Container colors provided
through the collection service provided by City, with either lids conforming to
the color requirements or bodies conforming to the color requirements or both
lids and bodies conforming to color requirements. A Commercial Business is not
required to replace functional Containers, including Containers purchased prior
to January 1, 2022, that do not comply with the requirements of the subsection
prior to the end of the useful life of those Containers, or prior to January 1,
2036, whichever comes first.
         (b)   Container labels that include language or graphic images, or
both indicating the primary material accepted and the primary materials
prohibited in that Container, or Containers with imprinted text or graphic
images that indicate the primary materials accepted and primary materials
prohibited in the Container. Pursuant 14 CCR Section 18984.8, the Container
labeling requirements are required on new Containers commencing January 1,
2022.
      2.   Prohibit employees from placing materials in a Container not
designated for those materials to the extent practical through education,
training, Inspection, and/or other measures.
      3.   Annually inspect Recyclable Material, Organic Material, and Solid
Waste Containers for contamination and inform employees if Containers are
contaminated and of the requirements to keep contaminants out of those
Containers pursuant to 14 CCR Section 18984.9(b)(3).
      4.   Annually provide information to employees, contractors, tenants, and
customers about Organic Material Recovery requirements and about proper sorting
of Source Separated Organic Material and Source Separated Recyclable Materials
into Recyclable Material Container and Organic Material Containers.
      5.   Provide education information before or within fourteen (14) days of
occupation of the premises to new tenants that describes requirements to keep
Source Separated Organic Material and Source Separated Recyclable Materials
separate from Solid Waste and the location of Containers and the rules
governing their use at each property.
   (E)   Provide or arrange access for City or its agent to their properties
during all Inspections conducted in accordance with Section
3-2-22  to confirm compliance with the requirements of this ordinance.
   (F)   Meet the Self-Hauler requirements in Section
3-2-5  if a Commercial Business wants to self-haul.
   (G)   Not prohibit a generator from preventing or reducing waste generation,
managing Organic Material on site, or using a Community Composting site
pursuant to 14 CCR Section 18984.9(c).
   (H)   Be the duty of every person in possession, charge or control of any
boarding home, Restaurant, hotel, apartment, Commercial occupancy, industrial
occupancy, eating house or vacant lot within the City to keep the premises in
their control in a “sanitary condition”, which is hereby defined to mean that
all parts thereof are free and clean of any accumulation of Discarded Material.
   (I)   Comply, if a Commercial Business that is Tier One or Tier Two Edible
Food Generators, with Food Recovery requirements pursuant to Section
3-2-14 .
   (J)   Not fill Discarded Material Containers more than level full and shall
have the lids of such portable Containers kept closed and locked (if
applicable), except when depositing waste, to prevent scavenging. (Ord. 837-20,
8-18-2020)
3-2-13: GENERATOR REQUIREMENTS - WAIVERS FOR COMMERCIAL BUSINESSES:
   (A)   If the City establishes a Three-Container System, Commercial
Businesses may apply for waivers where practical difficulties make it
impossible or extremely difficult to carry out the strict letter of this
Chapter with respect to any particular premises or where unnecessary hardship
will be caused by complying with this Chapter with respect to any particular
premises. Under these circumstances, the City Manager or his/her Designee may
issue special written permits (waivers) authorizing variations from the
provisions of this Chapter, subject to such terms and conditions as may deemed
necessary to protect the public health and safety of the City. Special written
permits include de minimis waivers and physical space waivers, as described
below.
   (B)   De Minimis Waivers: The City may waive a Commercial Business’s
obligation (including Multi-Family Residential Dwelling’s obligations) to
comply with some or all of the Organic Material requirements of this ordinance
if the Commercial Business provides documentation that the business generates
below a certain amount of Organic Material as described in Section
3-2-13 (B)2. below. Commercial businesses requesting a de minimis waiver shall:
      1.   Submit an application specifying the services that they are
requesting a waiver from and provide documentation as noted in Section
3-2-13 (B)2. below.
      2.   Provide documentation that either:
         (a)   The Commercial Business’s total Solid Waste collection service
is two (2) cubic yards or more per week and Organic Material subject to
collection in a Recyclable Materials or Organic Materials Container comprises
less than twenty (20) gallons per week per applicable Container of the
business’ total waste; or,
         (b)   The Commercial Business’ total Solid Waste collection service is
less than two (2) cubic yards per week and Organic Material subject to
collection in a Recyclable Material Container or Organic Material Container
comprises less than ten (10) gallons per week per applicable Container of the
business’ total waste.
      3.   Notify City if circumstances change such that Commercial Business’s
Organic Material exceeds threshold required for waiver, in which case waiver
will be rescinded.
      4.   Provide written verification of eligibility for de minimis waiver
every 5 years, if City has approved de minimis waiver.
   (C)   Physical Space Waivers: City may waive a Commercial Business’ or
property owner’s obligations (including Multi-Family Residential Dwellings’) to
comply with some or all of the Organic Material collection service requirements
if the City has evidence from its own staff, a hauler, licensed architect, or
licensed engineer that the premises lacks adequate space for compliance with
the Organic Material collection requirements of Section 3-2.
   A physical space waiver may also be requested if a Commercial Business or
property owner documents that the premises lacks adequate space for Organic
Material Container and Recyclable Material Containers.
   Commercial Business, business owner, or property owner requesting a physical
space waiver shall:
      1.   Submit an application form specifying the type(s) of collection
services for which they are requesting a compliance waiver.
      2.   Provide documentation that the premises lacks adequate space for
Recyclable Material Containers and/or Organic Material Containers including
documentation from its hauler, licensed architect, or licensed engineer.
      3.   Provide written verification to City that it is still eligible for
physical space waiver every five years, if City has approved application for a
physical space waiver.
   (D)   Review and Approval of Waivers by City: Commercial Businesses or
property owners (including Multi-Family Residential Dwellings) shall:
      1.   Apply to City for a de minimis or physical space waiver. Waivers are
valid for five (5) years.
      2.   Any Waiver Holder must cooperate with the City and/or Franchise
Hauler for compliance Inspections and enforcement as stated in Section
3-2-22 .
      3.   Waiver Holder must annually reapply to the City for a waiver and
shall submit any required documentation, and/or fees/payments as required by
the City. Failure to submit a completed application shall equate to an
automatic denial of said application. (Ord. 837-20, 8-18-2020)
3-2-14: EDIBLE FOOD RECOVERY - REQUIREMENTS FOR COMMERCIAL EDIBLE FOOD
GENERATORS:
   (A)   Tier One Commercial Edible Food Generators must comply with the
requirements of this Section
3-2-14  commencing January 1, 2022, and Tier Two Commercial Edible Food
Generators must comply commencing January 1, 2024 pursuant to 14 CCR Section
18991.3.
   (B)   Commercial Edible Food Generators shall comply with the following
requirements:
      1.   Arrange to recover the maximum amount of Edible Food that would
otherwise be disposed.
      2.   Contract with, or enter into a written agreement with Food Recovery
Organizations or Food Recovery Services for: (i) the collection of Edible Food
for Food Recovery; or, (ii) acceptance of the Edible Food that the Commercial
Edible Food Generator self-hauls to the Food Recovery Organization for Food
Recovery.
      3.   Shall not intentionally spoil food capable of being recovered by a
Food Recovery Organization or Food Recovery Service.
      4.   Allow City’s designated entity or designated third party entity to
access the premises and review records.
      5.   Keep records that include the following information, or as otherwise
specified in 14 CCR Section 18991.4:
         (a)   A list of each Food Recovery Service or Food Recovery
Organization that collects or receives its Edible Food.
         (b)   A record of the following information for each of those Food
Recovery Services or Food Recovery Organizations:
            (1)   The name, address and contact information of the Food
Recovery Service or Food Recovery Organization.
            (2)   The types of food that will be collected by or transported to
the Food Recovery Service or Food Recovery Organization.
            (3)   The established frequency that food will be collected or
transported.
            (4)   The quantity of food, measured in pounds recovered per month,
collected or transported to a Food Recovery Service or Food Recovery
Organization for Food Recovery.
         (c)   A copy of all contracts, written agreements, or other documents
between the Edible Food generator and the Food Recovery Service(s) or Food
Recovery Organization(s).
   (C)   Large venues or Large Event operators not providing food service, but
allowing for food to be provided by others, shall require food facilities
operating at the Large Venue or Large Event to comply with the requirements of
this Section, commencing January 1, 2024.
   (D)   Nothing in this ordinance shall be construed to limit or conflict with
the protections provided by the California Good Samaritan Food Donation Act of
2017, the Federal Good Samaritan Act or requirements contained in food share
donation regulations for schools pursuant to Senate Bill 557 of 2017 (approved
by the Governor of the State of California on September 25, 2017, which added
Article 13 (commencing with Section 49580) to Chapter 9 of Part 27 of Division
4 of Title 2 of the Education Code, and to amend Section 114079 of the Health
and Safety Code, relating to food safety, as amended, supplemented, superseded
and replaced from time to time). (Ord. 837-20, 8-18-2020)
3-2-15: EDIBLE FOOD RECOVERY - REQUIREMENTS FOR FOOD RECOVERY ORGANIZATIONS AND
SERVICES:
   (A)   Food Recovery Services collecting or receiving Edible Food directly
from Commercial Edible Food Generators, via a contract or written agreement
with them, shall maintain the following records, or as otherwise specified by
14 CCR Section 18991.5(a)(1):
      1.   The name, address, and contact information for each Commercial
Edible Food Generator that the service collects Edible Food from.
      2.   The quantity in pounds of Edible Food collected from each Commercial
Edible Food Generator per month.
      3.   The quantity in pounds of Edible Food transported to each Food
Recovery Organization per month.
      4.   The name, address, and contact information for each Food Recovery
Organization that the Food Recovery Service transports Edible Food to for Food
Recovery.
   (B)   Food Recovery Organizations collecting or receiving Edible Food
directly from Commercial Edible Food Generators, via a contract or written
agreement, shall maintain the following records, or as otherwise specified by
14 CCR Section 18991.5(a)(2):
      1.   The name, address, and contact information for each Commercial
Edible Food Generator that the organization received Edible Food from.
      2.   The quantity in pounds of Edible Food received from each Commercial
Edible Food Generator per month.
      3.   The name, address, and contact information for each Food Recovery
Service that the organization received Edible Food from for Recovery.
   (C)   Food Recovery Organizations and Food Recovery Services that are
located in the City and contract with or have written agreements with
Commercial Edible Food Generators shall report to the City the amount of Edible
Food in pounds recovered from the previous calendar year no later than January
31 of each year.
   (D)   Food Recovery Organizations and Food Recovery Services shall inform
generators about California and Federal Good Samaritan Food Donation Act
protection in written communications, such as in their contract or agreement
with them. (Ord. 837-20, 8-18-2020)
3-2-16: STORAGE AND ACCUMULATION OF WASTE:
   (A)   No person shall store Discarded Materials in any boxes, bags, or
barrels of any type within a public place or between any front lot line and the
main building on a residential or Commercial lot ,alley, or within that portion
of the street side of a corner lot equal to the depth of the required street
side yard.
   (B)   This Section shall not preclude:
      1.   The storage of Discarded Materials in a Container of a Commercial
establishment, in front of a main building if such Container is within a solid
wall enclosure lawfully erected and maintained in such a manner to allow access
to the Container for collection of waste by the Franchise Hauler.
      2.   The storage of Discarded Materials from renovations of residential
or Commercial buildings or major landscaping work in temporary use covered
Containers and such Container may be placed in view from a public place if such
placement is for the convenience of the collection by the Franchise Hauler and
is not in violation of any other municipal Code, and any such temporary use
shall be limited to the reasonable time needed to complete such renovations or
work not to exceed six months.
      3.   The storage of Discarded Materials in a covered Container for
collection and removal by the Franchise Hauler.
      4.   A person, whose Discarded Materials are collected or removed by the
Franchise Hauler, from placing or maintaining a Container in the manner set
forth in this Chapter within the public place in front of the premises from
which such Discarded Materials emanated; provided, however, no such Container
shall be placed within any public place earlier than 4:00 a.m. on the day
preceding the day for the collection of waste, nor be allowed to remain within
the public place later than 6:00 a.m. on the day following such collection
   (C)   No person shall throw or deposit Discarded Materials in or upon a
public place except in public Containers, in Containers for collection, or at
appropriately permitted facilities.
   (D)   Persons placing Discarded Materials in public Containers shall do so
in such a manner as to prevent it from being carried or deposited by the
elements upon a public place.
   (E)   Every person in possession, charge, or control of any property shall
keep such property free and clean of any accumulation of Discarded Materials.
   (F)   Except as otherwise provided in this Chapter, no person shall deposit,
keep or accumulate or permit or cause to be deposited or to remain on property,
any Discarded Materials.
   (G)   No person shall place, deposit, or dump Discarded Materials or cause
Discarded Materials to be placed, deposited, or dumped upon private property.
   (H)   No person shall sweep into or deposit in a public place, the
accumulation of Discarded Materials from a building or lot or public or private
sidewalk or driveway. Persons owning or occupying property shall keep the
sidewalks in front of their premises or business free of Discarded Materials.
   (I)   If a person within the City has not complied with an order of the City
Code Enforcement Official to remove accumulation of Discarded Materials deemed
dangerous to the public health to delay its removal by the expiration of the
time permitted to do so, the City Code Enforcement Official may enter the
premises and remove the offensive accumulation. The person responsible for such
accumulation and/or the property owner of record shall be liable to the City
for all costs, including without limitation, noticing, removal, collection, and
disposal, in addition to other penalties.
   (J)   In accordance with Health and Safety provisions, it is unlawful for
any person to keep, accumulate or permit to be kept or accumulated, any
Discarded Materials in or upon any public or private place unless the same
shall be in a Container, either standard or detachable, having a close fitting
cover such as herein specified, which Container shall be closed at all times
except when opened to be filled or emptied.
   (K)   No person shall tamper or meddle with any Container. No person other
than the owner thereof, the owner’s agents or employees, or the City, or a
Permitted Self-Hauler shall remove the contents from any Container. No person,
other than the City, or the City’s authorized agent, shall remove Recyclable
Materials which have been segregated from other wastes and placed at a
designated collection location for the purpose of collection and recycling by
the City or the City’s authorized agent. (See Section
3-2-18  “Scavenging”) (Ord. 837-20, 8-18-2020)
3-2-17: BURYING AND BURNING PROHIBITED:
The placement or burial of Discarded Materials upon private property or a
public place or burning of Discarded Materials within the City is prohibited
and is a misdemeanor. (Ord. 837-20, 8-18-2020)
3-2-18: SCAVENGING:
   (A)   Discarded Materials, when placed in Containers by occupants or owners
of the premises upon which the same are located, shall be subject to the
exclusive control of the City, its agents or contractors. No person shall
meddle with Discarded Materials Containers or in any way pilfer or scatter the
contents thereof.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person or persons to remove Source Separated
Recyclable Materials from any Containers. Any person found to be in suspicion
of violating this section, shall prove ownership of said material to the
satisfaction of the City designated official inspecting said material. Failure
to satisfactorily demonstrate ownership of materials shall result in the
immediate seizure of all Recyclable Materials on or with person(s) found to be
in violation of this Section. This provision does not preclude a property owner
from separating and hauling Recyclable Materials generated on the premises.
   (C)   Any person who violates any provisions of this code, as amended from
time to time, or any person who owns property upon which a violation exists,
irrespective of whether that person caused the violation, shall be subject to
an administrative fine and/or penalty up to the maximum amounts set forth in
Title 1, Chapter 3  of the City’s Municipal Code. (Ord. 837-20, 8-18-2020)
3-2-19: ALLEY MANAGEMENT:
No person owning, leasing, or occupying property adjoining any public Alley in
the City shall fail, refuse, or neglect to keep that portion of such Alley
between the centerline thereof, and the property line of such property free
from Discarded Materials. A party’s failure to maintain their portion of a
public Alley shall be in violation of Section
3-2-20 , “Illegal Dumping” and/or Section
3-2-21 , “Relocation or Removal of Encroachment” and subject to any and all
fines, fees, and legal proceedings imposed on said party(ies). (Ord. 837-20, 8-
18-2020)
3-2-20: ILLEGAL DUMPING:
No person shall place, deposit, throw or dump, or cause to be placed,
deposited, thrown or dumped, any Discarded Material, including but not limited
to, swill, cans, bottles, tires, papers, ashes, dirt, sand, rock, cement,
glass, metal, carcass of any dead animal, offal, plants, or cuttings of any
nature whatsoever, or any nauseous, offensive matter in or upon any public or
private road, highway, street, Alley, public way or any public or private
property of any kind whatsoever. Any person found in violation of this Section
shall be subject to the fines and actual costs incurred by City associated with
removal of the illegally dumped item(s). Any person who violates any provisions
of this code, as amended from time to time, or any person who owns property
upon which a violation exists, irrespective of whether that person caused the
violation, shall be subject to an administrative fine and/or penalty up to the
maximum amounts set forth in
Title 1, Chapter 3  of the City’s Municipal Code. (Ord. 837-20, 8-18-2020)
3-2-21: RELOCATION OR REMOVAL OF ENCROACHMENT:
When any encroachment authorized or unauthorized is found to be in conflict
with the use of public property or existing or proposed facilities owned,
maintained, or operated by the City, such encroachment shall, upon one (1)
written notice by the City, be permanently relocated in such a way as to
eliminate the conflict, said relocation shall be at the sole expense of the
party who placed the item. If the party fails to comply with said written
notice within a twenty-four (24) hour period of time, the City may remove
encroaching item(s) at the expense of the party. Party shall receive one (1)
Notice of Violation per identified items. Repeat violations of this Chapter
shall result in additional fines and actual costs incurred by City associated
with removal of the illegally dumped item(s). Any person who violates any
provisions of this code, as amended from time to time, or any person who owns
property upon which a violation exists, irrespective of whether that person
caused the violation, shall be subject to an administrative fine and/or penalty
up to the maximum amounts set forth in
Title 1, Chapter 3  of the City’s Municipal Code. (Ord. 837-20, 8-18-2020)
3-2-22: INSPECTIONS AND INVESTIGATIONS BY CITY:
   (A)   Authority. City Manager or his/her Designee are authorized to conduct
Inspections and investigations, at random or otherwise, of any collection
Container; collection vehicle loads; or transfer, processing, or disposal
facility for materials collected from generators, to confirm compliance with
this ordinance by Organic Material Generators, Commercial Businesses (including
Multi-Family Residential Dwellings) property owners, Commercial Edible Food
Generators, Permitted Self-Haulers, and Food Recovery Services and Food
Recovery Organizations, subject to applicable laws.
      1.   Per
Title 1, Chapter 3, Section 5  on the Municipal Code, these powers include the
power to issue notices of violation, the power to assess and collect civil
fines and penalties as provided in this chapter, and the power to enter and
inspect public and private property as permitted by law. This Section does not
allow City to enter the interior of a private residential property for
Inspection.
   (B)   Regulated entities shall provide or arrange for access during all
Inspections (with the exception of residential property interiors) and shall
cooperate with the City’s employee or its designated entity/Designee during
such Inspections and investigations. As per
Title 1, Chapter 3, Section 5  and in accordance with the requirements of this
Section, the City Manager or his/her Designee is authorized to enter upon any
property or premises to ascertain whether there are violations of this code,
and to make any Inspections and investigations that may include confirmation of
proper placement of materials in Containers, Edible Food Recovery activities,
records, or any other requirement of this ordinance described herein as may be
necessary in the performance of his or her duties.
   (C)   Failure to provide or arrange for: (i) access to an entity’s premises;
or (ii) access to records for any Inspection or investigation is a violation of
this ordinance and may result in a determination that the generator is out of
compliance with one or more requirements of this Chapter.
      1.   If the property owner or other responsible person refuses permission
to enter or inspect, the public official may seek an administrative inspection
warrant pursuant to the California Code of Civil Procedure or as otherwise
authorized by law. Following the obtaining of owner permission to inspect or a
lawful inspection warrant, the public official is authorized to conduct
examinations and surveys that may include, but are not limited to, the taking
of photographs or video recordings and the taking of samples or other physical
evidence or recordings. All inspections, entries, examinations and surveys
shall be done in a reasonable manner and shall at all times comply with
constitutional and statutory requirements (
Title 1, Chapter 3, Section 5 )
   (D)   Any records obtained by a City during its Inspections, and other
reviews shall be subject to the requirements and applicable disclosure
exemptions of the Public Records Act as set forth in Government Code Section
6250 et seq.
   (E)   City representatives and/or its designated entity/Designee are
authorized to conduct any Inspections, or other investigations as reasonably
necessary to further the goals of this ordinance, subject to applicable laws.
   (F)   City shall receive written complaints from persons regarding an entity
that may be potentially non-compliant with SB 1383 regulations, including
receipt of anonymous complaints.
   Any person who violates any provisions of this code, as amended from time to
time, or any person who owns property upon which a violation exists,
irrespective of whether that person caused the violation, shall be subject to
an administrative fine or penalty up to the maximum amounts set forth in
Title 1, Chapter 3  of the City’s Municipal Code. (Ord. 837-20, 8-18-2020)
CHAPTER 3
SEWERAGE CONSTRUCTION AND USE
SECTION:
3-3-1: Administration
3-3-2: General Provisions
3-3-3: Sewerage Construction And Sewer Use
3-3-3-1: Fats, Oils And Grease (FOG) Control
3-3-4: Industrial Wastewaters
3-3-5: Sewer Connection And Use Fees
3-3-6: Fees Set
3-3-1: ADMINISTRATION:
   (A)   Purpose: The purpose of this chapter is to provide for the maximum
possible beneficial public use of the city's sewage collection and treatment
facilities through adequate regulation of sewer construction, sewer use and
industrial wastewater discharges to provide for equitable distribution of the
cost associated with said facilities, and to provide for equitable distribution
of the cost associated with said facilities, and to provide procedures for
complying with requirements placed upon the city by other regulatory agencies.
   (B)   Definitions And Scope Of This Chapter: This chapter shall be
interpreted in accordance with the following definitions which will apply to
the issuance of permits, the making of charges for service, and all other
operations of this chapter, unless another meaning for the word is apparent
from the context. (Ord. 409, 8-7-1978)
    BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (BOD): The measure of decomposable organic
material in domestic or industrial wastewater as represented by the oxygen
utilized over a period of five (5) days at twenty degrees centigrade (20°C).
   CHAPTER: Unless otherwise specified, this chapter.
   CHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (COD): The measure of chemical decomposable material
in domestic or industrial wastewater as represented by the oxygen utilized as
determined by the appropriate test procedure.
   CHLORINE DEMAND: The difference between the amount of chlorine added to the
wastewater sample and the amount remaining at the end of a thirty (30) minute
period.
   CITY: The city of Taft.
   CITY COUNCIL: The city council of the city of Taft.
   CITY HEALTH DEPARTMENT: The county health department acting through their
authorized representatives.
   DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC WORKS: The director of public works of the city of Taft
or his duly authorized agent.
   DISCHARGER: Any person that discharges or causes a discharge to a public
sewer.
   DISSOLVED SOLIDS OR DISSOLVED MATTER: The solid matter in solution in the
wastewater and shall be obtained by evaporation of the sample from which all
suspended matter has been removed by filtration as determined by the
appropriate test procedures.
   DOMESTIC WASTEWATER: The water carried wastes produced from noncommercial or
nonindustrial activities and which result from normal human living processes.
   EFFLUENT: The liquid outflow of any facility designed to treat, convey or
retain wastewater.
   FOOD SERVICE ESTABLISHMENT (FSE): Any facility or representative of a
facility serving food to the public such as, but not limited to, restaurants,
bakeries, coffee shops, sandwich shops, school cafeterias, hospital cafeterias,
delis, etc.
   GRAVITY SEPARATION INTERCEPTOR: Any facility designed, constructed and
operated for the purpose of removing and retaining dangerous, deleterious or
prohibited constituents from wastewater by differential gravity separation
before discharge to the public sewer.
   HOUSE CONNECTION OR BUILDING CONNECTION: The sewer connecting the building
sewer or building waste drainage system to the public sewer for the purpose of
conveying domestic wastewater. Maintenance of any house or building connection
shall be the responsibility of the owner of the building served by such
connection.
   INDUSTRIAL CONNECTION SEWER: The sewer connecting the building sewer or
building waste drainage system to the public sewer for the purpose of conveying
industrial wastewater.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTEWATER: All water carried wastes and wastewater of the
community, excluding domestic wastewater and uncontaminated water and shall
include all wastewater from any producing, manufacturing, processing,
institutional, commercial, agricultural or any other operation where wastewater
discharge includes significant quantities of waste of nonhuman origin.
   INSPECTOR: A person authorized by the director of public works to inspect
wastewater generation, conveyance, processing, and disposal facilities on
private or public property.
   LATERAL SEWER OR COLLECTING SEWER: The public sewer, usually used to collect
wastewater from house connections and industrial connection sewers and
transport same to sewers.
   MUNICIPAL CODE: The city of Taft municipal code.
   PEAK FLOW RATE: The average rate at which wastewater is discharged to a
public sewer during the highest thirty (30) minutes flow period in the
preceding twelve (12) months.
   PUBLIC CORPORATION: This state and any political subdivision thereof, any
incorporated municipality therein, any public agency of the state or any
political subdivision thereof or any corporate municipal instrumentality of
this state.
   PUBLIC SEWER: Any sewer dedicated to public use and whose use is controlled
by a public corporation.
   RADIOACTIVE MATERIAL: Material containing chemical elements that
spontaneously change from their atomic structure by emitting any particles,
rays or energy forms.
   SECTION: A section of this chapter.
   SEWAGE PUMPING PLANT: Any facility designed and constructed to raise
wastewater in elevation or overcome head losses due to pipeline friction.
   SEWERAGE: Any and all facilities used for collecting, conveying, pumping,
treating and disposing of wastewater.
   SEWERAGE SYSTEM: A network of wastewater collection and conveyance
facilities and treatment and disposal facilities owned jointly by the city of
Taft and the Ford City/Taft Heights sanitation district.
   SHALL AND MAY: "Shall" is mandatory and "may" is permissive.
   SOLID WASTES: The nonliquid carried wastes normally considered to be
suitable for disposal with refuse at sanitary landfill refuse disposal sites.
   STANDARD METHODS: The current edition of the "Standard Methods For The
Examination Of Water And Wastewater" as published by the American Public Health
Association.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS OR SUSPENDED MATTER: The insoluble solid matter suspended
in wastewater that is separable by laboratory filtration in accordance with the
procedures described in "standard methods".
   TRUNK SEWER OR MAIN LINE SEWER: A sewer constructed, maintained and operated
by the city that conveys wastewater to the jointly owned treatment facilities
and into which lateral and collecting sewers discharge.
   UNCONTAMINATED WATER: Any wasted water of the community not contaminated or
polluted with wastewater and which is suitable or could readily be made
suitable for discharge to the municipal stormwater drainage system.
   USER: Discharger.
   WASTEWATER: The water carried waste of the community derived from human, or
industrial sources, including domestic wastewater and industrial wastewater.
Rainwater, groundwater or drainage of uncontaminated water is not wastewater.
(Ord. 409, 8-7-1978; amd. Ord. 775-09, 11-3-2009)
The provisions of this chapter shall apply to the direct or indirect discharge
of all liquid carried wastes to facilities of the city and the jointly owned
treatment and disposal facilities. This chapter, among other things, provides
for the regulation of sewer construction in areas within the city, the quantity
and quality of discharge waste, degree of waste retrievement required, the
setting of waste discharge fees to provide for equitable distribution of costs,
development of plans for sewer construction, the issuance of permits for
industrial wastewater discharge and of other miscellaneous permits and
establishment of penalties for violation of this chapter.
   (C)   Liquid Waste Disposal Policy: The city council of the city hereby
finds that the highest and best use of the city's sewerage collection and
jointly owned treatment system is the conveyance, treatment and disposal of
domestic wastewater. The use of the city's sewerage system for industrial
wastewater dischargers is subject to regulation by this code. The city and the
Ford City/Taft Heights sanitation district are committed to a policy of
wastewater renovation and reuse to the greatest extent possible and to reduce
overall costs of wastewater treatment and disposal. The renovation of
wastewater through treatment processes may necessitate more stringent quality
requirements on industrial wastewater dischargers than those required by other
regulatory governmental agencies.
To comply with stated policies of the state and federal government and to
permit the jointly owned treatment plant facilities to meet standards of
effluent quality and to continue to meet such standards in the future,
provisions are made in this chapter for the regulation of industrial wastewater
discharges. This chapter establishes quantity and quality limitations on
industrial wastewater discharges which may adversely affect the city's sewerage
system or effluent quality. Methods of cost recovery from industrial wastewater
discharges are also established where the discharges impose inequitable
collection, treatment, or disposal costs on the city. Recovery and reuse
procedures established by industrial wastewater dischargers to meet the
limitations in their discharges will be preferred by the city over those
procedures designed solely to meet wastewater discharge limitations. Methods
providing for beneficial reuse of otherwise wasted resources shall be the
approved method of industrial wastewater treatment wherever feasible. (Ord.
409, 8-7-1978)
3-3-2: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
   (A)   Administration: Except as otherwise provided herein, the director of
public works shall administer and implement the provisions of this chapter. Any
powers granted to or duties imposed upon the director of public works may be
delegated to his authorized representative. (Ord. 409, 8-7-1978)
   (B)   Penalty For Violation And Civil Liability: Every person violating any
provisions of this chapter, including the failure to pay any fees, charges, or
surcharges imposed hereby or any condition or any limitation of a permit or
plan approval issued pursuant thereto is guilty of an infraction and upon
conviction is punishable by a fine not to exceed one hundred dollars ($100.00).
(Ord. 694-02, 8-20-2002)
Each day during which any violation continues shall constitute a separate
offense, punishable as provided above.
Any person who intentionally or negligently violates any provisions of this
chapter pertaining to the subject matter of either subsection (B)1 or (B)2 of
this section or any condition or limitation of permit or plan approval related
thereto shall be civilly liable to the city for a sum of not to exceed six
thousand dollars ($6,000.00) for each day in which such violation occurs.
      1.   The pretreatment of any industrial wastewater which would otherwise
be detrimental to the treatment works or its proper and efficient operation and
maintenance.
      2.   The prevention of the entry of such wastewater into the collecting
system and treatment works.
The city council may institute procedures to impose property liens for
collection of delinquent charges and to prosecute civil actions to enforce the
provisions of this chapter and to recover any sums due hereunder.
   (C)   Validity: If any provision of this chapter or the application thereof
to any person or circumstance is held invalid, the remainder of this chapter
and the application of such provisions to other persons or circumstances shall
not be affected thereby.
   (D)   Notice: The director of public works shall notify any person found to
be in violation of this chapter or of any limitation or requirement of a permit
issued hereunder.
Unless otherwise provided therein, any notice required to be given by the
director of public works under this chapter shall be in writing and served in
person or by registered or certified mail. If served by mail, the notice shall
be sent to the last known address known to the director of public works. Where
the address is unknown, service may be made upon the owner of record of the
property involved.
Notice shall be deemed to have been given at the time of deposit, postage
prepaid, in a facility regularly serviced by the United States postal service.
Within ten (10) days after the notice is given, the director of public works
shall refer the matter to the city council together with a report setting forth
the particulars and all evidence which is available pertaining to the matter.
The city council, within thirty (30) days of receipt of such notice of
violations, shall consider the matter for possible action under subsection (B)
of this section or subsection
3-3-4(E) of this chapter or may take such other action as the council may deem
appropriate.
   (E)   Time Limits: Any time limit provided in any provisions of this chapter
may be extended only by the city council. Any time limit provided in any
written notice of the director of public works and not otherwise determined by
this chapter or the city council may be extended by written notice of the
director of public works. (Ord. 409, 8-7-1978)
   (F)   Inspection: Inspection of every facility within the city that is
involved directly or indirectly with the discharge of wastewater to the city's
sewerage system and the jointly owned treatment and disposal systems may be
made by the director of public works as he deems necessary. These facilities
shall include, but not be limited to, sewers, sewage pumping plants, all
industrial processes, industrial wastewater generation, conveyance and
pretreatment facilities, devices, grease removal devices and connection to
sewers and all similar sewage facilities. Inspections may be made to determine
that such facilities are maintained and operated properly and are adequate to
meet the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 775-09, 11-3-2009)
Access to all of the above facilities or to other facilities directly or
indirectly connected to the city's sewerage systems shall be given to the
director of public works or his authorized representative at all reasonable
times, including those occasioned by emergency conditions. Any permanent or
temporary obstruction to easy access to the sewerage facility to be inspected
shall promptly be removed by the facility user or the owner at the written or
verbal request of the director of public works and shall not be replaced.
   (G)   Recording Of Fees And Charges: The director of public works shall
cause to be kept a permanent and accurate account of all fees and charges
received under the provisions of this chapter, giving the names and addresses
of the persons on whose account the fees and charges were paid, the date and
amount thereof, and the purpose of which charges were paid.
   (H)   Estimated Quantities And Values: Unless otherwise provided herein,
whenever the fees and charges required by this chapter are based on estimated
values or estimated quantities, the director of public works shall make such
determinations in accordance with established practices.
   (I)   Approval Of Plans, Issuance Of Permits, And Certification Of Final
Inspection: The director of public works shall approve plans for sewerage
construction, issue a permit for industrial wastewater discharge when said
permit issuance has been approved by the City Council or any other permit under
this Chapter, only if it appears to said Director that the sewerage
construction, sewer connection, industrial wastewater discharge or other
procedure conforms to the requirements of this Chapter.
If requested to do so, the Director of Public Works will issue an inspection
certificate indicating satisfactory completion of required work or compliance
of procedures with this Chapter.
All required fees and charges shall be paid before approval of plans or
issuance of a permit or an inspection certificate.
The approval of plans or the issuance of a permit shall not relieve the
discharger of any duty imposed upon him pursuant to this Chapter.
   (J)   Appeal Procedure: Any permit applicant, permit holder, authorized
industrial wastewater discharger or other discharger adversely affected by any
decision, action, or determination made by or in behalf of the City in
interpreting or implementing the provisions of this Chapter or any permit
issued hereto may file with the City Council a written appeal. Said appeal
shall be filed within fourteen (14) days after notice of the action taken and
decision, or determination made.
The written appeal shall state all the pertinent aspects of the matter and
shall be accompanied by a fee of twenty dollars ($20.00) which shall be
refunded if the appeal is sustained. Within forty five (45) days after the
written appeal is received, the City Council shall hold a hearing on the
matter. At this hearing, the discharger may present such other information or
evidence in his behalf which is pertinent to the matter under consideration by
the City Council. Within thirty (30) days after the hearing is closed, the City
Council shall make final ruling on the appeal.
   (K)   Payment Of Charges And Delinquent Charges: All fees and charges
imposed under the provisions of this Chapter are due and payable upon receipt
of the notice of charges. Unpaid charges shall become delinquent thirty (30)
days after mailing or delivering the notice of charges. A basic penalty of ten
percent (10%) of the unpaid amount shall be added to any fee or charge that
becomes delinquent. Interest at the rate of one-half percent (1/2%) per month
shall accrue on the total of all delinquent charges, plus all penalty charges.
(Ord. 409, 8-7-1978)
3-3-3: SEWERAGE CONSTRUCTION AND SEWER USE:
   (A)   No person other than City maintenance personnel, persons contracting
to do work for the City or persons possessing a valid sewer connection
construction permit issued by the City shall construct or cause to be
constructed or altered any public sewer, industrial connection sewer, sewage
pumping plant, pollution control plant or other sewering facility within the
City and under City's jurisdiction which is or will be discharging wastewater
flows directly or indirectly to said City facilities without first obtaining
approval of sewerage construction plans from the Director of Public Works. No
person shall construct a sewer house connection or sewer connection between
commercial or industrial or multiple residential property and the City lateral
sewer or collecting sewer or mainline sewer without first obtaining from the
Director of Public Works a permit for the construction of such connection, the
payment of all fees required by this Chapter and other sections of the Taft
Municipal Code, and obtaining from the Director of Public Works the necessary
permit for excavation within the public rights of way and the payment of all
fees and deposits required in connection with the replacement of public
improvements required to be disturbed by construction of said sewer connection.
The applicant shall submit to the Director of Public Works for approval
construction plans and such specifications and other details as required to
describe fully the proposed sewerage facility. The plans shall have been
prepared under the supervision of and shall be signed by an engineer of
suitable training, registered in the State. Plans for sewerage construction
shall not be approved by the Director of Public Works for any facility which
will convey industrial wastewater through the City's sewerage system unless the
discharger has first obtained a City permit for industrial wastewater
discharger. Plans for sewerage construction shall meet all design standards of
the City. Approval of plans for sewerage construction and permits for
connection to City sewerage system are not transferable from one person to
another person or from one location to another location. Every house and
building required to be connected to the public sewer shall be separately and
independently connected with said public sewer; provided, however, where two
(2) or more buildings are on the same parcel belonging to one owner and if said
parcel cannot legally be subdivided, separate connections need not be made with
the public sewer. No two (2) separate owners of adjacent parcels shall be
permitted to join in the use of the same sewer house connection or other
building connection, except in a planned unit development wherein
responsibilities for maintenance and continuation of such sewer connections are
provided for by written agreement of the respective owners of such property and
sewer connection which specifically absolves the City of any responsibility for
maintenance thereof. In all buildings in which any house connection or building
lateral is too low to permit gravity flow to the public sewer, sanitary sewage
carried by such building lateral may be lifted by artificial means and
discharged to the public sewer.
Construction and maintenance of such facility shall be the responsibility of
the property owner served thereby and no such lifting facility shall be
constructed within public rights of way.
All portions of house connections and building connections between the
connection to the building sewer system and the City lateral sewer, collecting
sewer or mainline sewer shall be maintained by the owner of said connection.
Permission may be granted to any person owning or leasing property outside the
corporate limits of the City to connect his property with the City's sewerage
system under the terms and conditions provided in this Chapter. Plumbing upon
the property of the permittee and in all buildings hereafter constructed shall
comply with the Plumbing Code of the City; said construction shall require a
permit from the Plumbing Department and payment of the permit and inspection
fee. The Plumbing Inspector is hereby authorized to enter upon the premises of
such permittee for the purpose of inspection. All owners of presently existing
bathing, wading or swimming pools with a water capacity of more than two feet
(2') in depth must have completed installation and received approval of said
installation by the Director of Public Works of a wastewater disposal system
for purposes of disposing of wastewater from said pools. Said wastewater
disposal system must conform to the requirements of Appendix G of the current
edition of the Uniform Plumbing Code as adopted by the City.
The City Council does hereby expressly find and determine that it is necessary
in order to protect the health and sanitation of said City and to prevent
erosion and debilitation of the City Streets and alleys to adopt an ordinance
requiring owners and/or users of swimming pools to install and maintain
efficient and sanitary methods of disposal of wastewater from swimming pools.
   (B)   Use Of Public Sewers Required: It shall be unlawful for any person to
place, deposit, or permit to be deposited in an unsanitary manner upon public
or private property within the City or in any area under the jurisdiction of
said City any human or animal excrement, garbage or other objectionable waste.
It shall be unlawful to discharge to any stream or water course any sewage,
industrial wastes or other polluted waters except where suitable treatment has
been provided in accordance with the provisions of this Chapter.
Except as herein provided, it shall be unlawful to construct or maintain any
privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool, seepage pit or other facility
intended or used for the disposal of sewage.
No building, industrial facility or other structure shall be occupied until the
owner of the premises has complied with all applicable rules and regulations
contained in this Chapter or enacted pursuant to authority granted by this
Chapter. The owner of any building situated within the City and abutting on any
street or easement in which there is now located within which public sewer
construction is imminent is hereby required at his expense to connect said
building directly with the proper public sewer in accordance with the
provisions of this Chapter within ninety (90) days after date of official
notice to do so, provided, that said public sewer is within three hundred feet
(300') of the nearest point of the property; provided, however, where territory
is annexed to the City upon which existing improvements are located which are
served by a satisfactorily operating and maintained septic tank, the owner may
continue to dispose of waste to said septic tank as long as it remains in
operating condition to the satisfaction of the Health Department of the City or
until permit application for any additional building, or buildings is made. If
any division of such property is proposed connection to the public sewer may be
required by the City Council
Where a public sewer is not available under the provisions of the foregoing
paragraph, the building sewer shall be connected to a private sewage disposal
system complying with the provisions of this Chapter.
Before commencement of construction of a private sewage disposal system, the
owner shall first obtain a written permit signed by the Director of Public
Works. A permit for a private sewage disposal system shall not become effective
until the installation is completed to the satisfaction of the Director of
Public Works. The Director of public works or his authorized representative
shall be allowed to inspect the work at any stage of the construction and in
any event the applicant for the permit shall notify the city when the work is
ready for final inspection and before any underground portions are covered. The
types and capacities, locations, and layout of a private sewage disposal system
shall comply with all recommendations of the department of public health of the
state and the city health department. No septic tank or cesspool shall be
permitted to discharge to any public sewer or any stream or watercourse.
At any such time as a public sewer becomes available to a property served by a
private sewage disposal system in accordance with paragraphs 3 and 4 of this
subsection, and said private system fails to operate to the satisfaction of the
city health department, a direct connection shall be made to the public sewer
in compliance with this chapter and the construction standards of the city. No
permit for reconstruction or replacement of any private sewage disposal system
or portion thereof shall be issued for any property after a public sewer
becomes available to said property as provided in paragraph 3 of this
subsection. Any septic tanks, cesspools and similar private sewage disposal
facilities which are abandoned shall be filled with a suitable material as
determined by the director of public works.
The owner of any private sewage disposal facilities shall operate and maintain
same in a sanitary manner at all times at no expense to the city.
No statement contained in this section shall be construed to interfere with any
additional requirements that may be imposed by any law, ordinance rule or
regulations or by the city or the city health department or the state.
   (C)   Discharge Of Rainwater Or Uncontaminated Water Prohibited: No person
shall discharge or cause to be discharged any rainwater, stormwater,
groundwater, street drainage, subsurface drainage, yard drainage, water from
yard fountains, ponds or lawn sprays or any other uncontaminated water, either
directly or indirectly into city's sewerage system.
   (D)   Industrial Wastewater Discharges Prohibited: No industrial wastewater
shall be discharged into city's sewerage system either directly or indirectly
until a permit for industrial wastewater discharge has been approved by the
city council.
   (E)   Improper Use Of Connected Sewers: The city hereby reserves the right
to inspect any existing sewer connection from private property or any existing
sewer lateral or collecting sewer which is not part of city's sewerage system,
but which discharges wastewater directly or indirectly to said city sewerage
system. If it is found that such lateral or collecting sewers or private
property connection are improperly used or improperly maintained, thereby
causing discharge of septic wastewater, excessive groundwater, debris or any
other objectionable substance to the city's sewerage system, the director of
public works shall set forth his findings in connection with the unsatisfactory
condition in writing to the city council. The city council upon review of the
matter may direct the director of public works to give notice of the
unsatisfactory condition to the offending discharger and may direct the
condition to be corrected.
In cases of continued noncompliance with the city council's directive, said
city council may direct the director of public works to disconnect the
offending sewer from the city's sewerage system.
   (F)   Excessive Sewer Maintenance Expense: No person shall discharge or
cause to be discharged to the city's sewerage system, either directly or
indirectly any waste that creates a stoppage, plugging, breakage, any reduction
in sewer capacity, or any other damage to sewers or sewer facilities of the
city. Any excessive sewer or sewerage maintenance expenses or any other
expenses attributable thereto will be charged to the offending discharger by
the city. The director of public works shall prepare an itemized listing of the
costs incurred by the city for such excessive sewer or sewerage maintenance
expense for confirmation by the city council. Upon confirmation of such charges
by the city council, said charges shall be transmitted to the offending
discharger and shall be immediately due and payable.
Any refusal to pay excessive maintenance expense duly authorized by the
director of public works and confirmed by the city council, either as submitted
or as modified by them shall constitute a violation of this chapter. (Ord. 409,
8-7-1978)
3-3-3-1: FATS, OILS AND GREASE (FOG) CONTROL:
   (A)   Permit For Fats, Oils And Grease Discharge: The city may require FOG
control permits for the food service establishments (FSEs). The permit for FOG
control may require pretreatment of kitchen wastewaters before discharge,
payment of permitting fees to defray increased cost of the city created by
inspections and such other conditions as may be required to effectuate the
purpose of this chapter.
   (B)   Grease, Oil And Sand Interceptors: Grease, oil and sand interceptors
shall be provided when, in the opinion of the city, they are necessary for the
proper handling of liquid wastes containing grease in excessive amounts or any
flammable wastes, sand, or other harmful ingredients; except that such
interceptors shall not be required for the private living quarters of dwelling
units. All interceptors shall be of a type and capacity approved by the city
and shall be located so as to be readily and easily accessible for cleaning and
inspection.
   (C)   Maintenance Requirements: Grease interceptors shall be maintained in
efficient operating condition by periodic removal of the full content of the
interceptor which includes wastewater accumulated FOG, floating materials,
sludge and solids.
   (D)   Best Management Practice (BMP) Requirements For Food Service
Establishments (FSEs): All FSEs shall implement best management practices in
accordance with the requirements and guidelines established by the city under
its FOG control program in an effort to minimize the discharge of FOG to the
sewer system.
Employees of all FSEs shall be trained by ownership/management periodically in
BMPs which may include, but are not limited to:
      1.   How to dry wipe pots, pans, dishware and work areas before washing
to remove grease.
      2.   The location and use of absorption products to clean under fryer
baskets and other locations where grease may be spilled or dripped.
      3.   How to properly dispose of grease or oil from cooking equipment into
a grease receptacle such as a barrel or drum without spilling.
      4.   Use of proper water temperatures to minimize grease blockages
downstream.
      5.   Recordkeeping.
   (E)   Recordkeeping Requirements: All FSEs shall keep all manifests (if
provided), receipts and invoices of all cleaning, maintenance, grease removal
of/from the grease interceptor, disposal carrier and disposal site location for
no less than three (3) years. The FSEs shall, upon request, make the manifests,
receipts and invoices available to any city representative, or inspector. These
records may include:
      1.   A logbook of grease interceptor, grease trap or grease control
device cleaning and maintenance practices.
      2.   A record of best management practices being implemented including
employee training.
      3.   Records of sampling data and sludge height monitoring for FOG and
solids accumulation in the grease interceptors.
      4.   Records of any spills and/or cleaning of the lateral or sewer
system.
   (F)   Right Of Entry; Inspection And Sampling: The city personnel and/or
other authorized representatives of the city shall have the right to enter the
premises of any user to determine whether the user is complying with all
requirements of this section or order issued hereunder.
      1.   Users shall allow the city ready access to all parts of the premises
for the purposes of inspection, sampling, records examination, and the
performance of any additional duties.
      2.   Should a user have security measures in force which require proper
identification and clearance before entry into its premises, the user shall
make necessary arrangements with its security guards so that, upon presentation
of suitable identification, the city will be permitted to enter without delay
for the purposes of performing specific responsibilities as set forth above.
      3.   The city shall have the right to set up on the user's property, or
require installation of, such devices as are necessary to conduct sampling and/
or metering of the user's operations.
      4.   Any temporary or permanent obstruction preventing safe and easy
access to the facility area to be inspected and/or sampled shall be promptly
removed by the user at the written or verbal request of the city and shall not
be replaced. The costs of clearing such access shall be borne by the user.
      5.   Unreasonable delays in allowing the city access to the user's
premises shall be a violation of this section. (Ord. 775-09, 11-3-2009)
3-3-4: INDUSTRIAL WASTEWATERS:
   (A)   Permit For Industrial Wastewater Discharge: No person shall discharge
or cause to be discharged any industrial wastewaters directly or indirectly to
city's sewerage system without first obtaining a permit for industrial
wastewater discharge from the city.
The permit for industrial wastewater discharge may require pretreatment of
industrial wastewaters before discharge, restriction of peak flow discharges,
discharge of certain wastewaters only to specified sewers of the city,
relocation of point of discharge, prohibition of discharge of certain
wastewater components, restriction of discharge to certain hours of the day,
payment of additional charges to defray increased cost of the city created by
the wastewater discharge and such other conditions as may be required to
effectuate the purpose of this chapter.
No city permit is transferable without prior written approval of the city
council.
No person shall discharge industrial wastewaters in excess of the quantity or
quality limitations set by the permit for industrial wastewater discharge. Any
person desiring to discharge wastewater or use facilities which are not in
conformance with the industrial wastewater permit may apply to the city council
for an amended permit.
   (B)   Procedure For Obtaining A Permit For Industrial Wastewater Discharge:
Applicants for a permit for industrial wastewater discharge shall complete an
application form available at the office of the director of public works. Such
application shall contain all pertinent information relative to the
characteristics and quantity of the wastewater discharge to the city's sewerage
system. Such application shall be reviewed by the director of public works and
transmitted together with his recommendations for any conditions which might be
attached to approval of such application together with his recommendations
thereon to the city council within thirty (30) days of receipt thereof. The
city council upon receipt of such recommendation shall consider the matter in
regularly scheduled meeting and may approve, conditionally approve, or deny the
application. The city council may continue the matter from time to time and
direct the director of public works and/or the applicant to provide additional
information and data or plans pertinent to the application. A condition
precedent to the approval of any such application is the existence of adequate
capacity in the city's sewerage system to convey, treat and dispose of the
wastewaters.
   (C)   Change Of Industrial Wastewater Permit Restrictions: The city may
change the restrictions or conditions of a permit for industrial wastewater
discharge from time to time as circumstances may require. The city shall allow
an industrial discharger a reasonable period of time to comply with any changes
in the industrial wastewater permit required by the city.
   (D)   Suspension Of Permit For Industrial Wastewater Discharge: The director
of public works may suspend a permit for industrial wastewater discharge for a
period of not to exceed forty five (45) days when such suspension is necessary
in order to stop a discharge which presents an imminent hazard to the public
health, safety or welfare or to the local environment or to the city's sewerage
system.
Any discharger notified of a suspension of his industrial wastewater permit
shall immediately cease and desist from the discharge of all industrial
wastewater to the sewerage system. In the event of a failure of the discharger
to comply voluntarily with the suspension order, the director of public works
shall take such steps as are reasonably necessary to ensure compliance.
Any suspended discharger may file with the city manager an appeal to the city
council for hearing, in which event, the city council shall within twenty (20)
days of receipt of such request, consider the matter. The city council shall
after hearing all the evidence submitted, either conform or revoke the action
of the director of public works. Reasonable notice of the hearing shall be
given to the suspended discharger in the manner provided for in subsection
3-3-2(D) of this chapter. At this hearing, the suspended discharger may appear
personally or through counsel and may present evidence in his own behalf.
In the event that the city council fails to meet within the time set forth
above or fails to make a determination within a reasonable time after the close
of the hearing, the order of suspension shall be stayed until a determination
is made either confirming or revoking the action of the director of public
works.
The director of public works shall reinstate the industrial wastewater permit
upon proof of satisfactory compliance with all discharge requirements of the
city.
   (E)   Revocation Of Permit For Industrial Wastewater Discharge: The city
council may revoke any permit for industrial wastewater discharge upon a
finding that the discharger has violated any provision of this chapter. No
revocation shall be ordered until a hearing on the questions has been held by
the city council. At this hearing, discharger may appear personally or through
counsel and present evidence in his own behalf. Notice of the hearing shall be
given to the discharger in accordance with subsection
3-3-2(D) of this chapter at least ten (10) days prior to the date of hearing.
Discharger whose industrial wastewater permit has been ordered revoked shall
immediately stop all discharge of any liquid carried wastes covered by the
permit to city's sewerage system. The director of public works may disconnect
or permanently block the sewer connection from said discharger's property to
ensure compliance with the order of revocation.
Before any further discharge of industrial wastewater may be made by the
discharger, he must apply for a new city permit for industrial wastewater
discharge, pay all charges that would be required upon initial application,
together with all delinquent fees, charges, penalties, and such other sums the
discharger may owe to the city. Costs incurred by the city in revoking the
permit and disconnecting the industrial connection sewer shall be paid for by
the discharger before issuance of a new permit for industrial wastewater
discharge.
   (F)   Prohibited Waste Discharges: In most cases the concentration or amount
of any particular constituent which will be judged to be excessive or
unreasonable cannot be foreseen, but will depend on the results of technical
determinations and the actions of regulatory agencies. The list of constituents
which may be regulated provides specific limits only where they are now
reasonably well established. The other constituents on the list are presented
with the objective of enumerating the types of wastes which will be regulated
from time to time.
Except as provided in subsection (G) of this section, no person shall discharge
or cause to be discharged to a public sewer the following wastes:
      1.   Any gasoline, benzine, naphtha, solvent, fuel oil or any liquid,
solid or gas that would cause or tend to cause flammable or explosive
conditions to result in the sewerage system.
      2.   Any waste containing toxic or poisonous liquids, solids or gases in
such quantities that alone or in combination with other waste substances may
create a hazard for humans, animals or the local environment, interfere
detrimentally with wastewater treatment processes, cause a public nuisance, or
cause any hazardous condition to exist in the sewerage system.
      3.   Any waste having a pH lower than 6 or having any corrosive or
detrimental characteristics that may cause injury to wastewater treatment or
maintenance personnel or may cause damage to structures, equipment or other
physical facilities of the sewerage system.
      4.   Any solids or viscous substances of such size or in such quantity
that they may cause obstruction to flow in the sewer or be detrimental to
proper wastewater treatment plant operations. These objectionable substances
include, but are not limited to, asphalt, dead animals, offal, ashes, sand,
mud, straw, industrial process, shavings, metal, glass, rags, feathers, tar,
plastics, wood, whole blood, paunch manure, bones, hair, and fleshings,
entrails, paper dishes, paper cups, milk containers, or other similar paper
products, either whole or ground.
      5.   Any rainwater, stormwater, groundwater, street drainage, subsurface
drainage, roof drainage, yard drainage, water from yard fountains, ponds, or
lawn sprays, or any other uncontaminated water.
      6.   Any water added for the purposes of diluting wastes which would
otherwise exceed applicable maximum concentration limitations.
      7.   Any nonbiodegradable cutting oils commonly called soluble oil which
form persistent water emulsions.
      8.   Any excessive concentrations of nonbiodegradable oil, petroleum oil
or refined petroleum products. (Ord. 409, 8-7-1978)
      9.   Any dispersed biodegradable oils and fats, such as lard, tallow, or
vegetable oil in excessive concentrations that would tend to cause adverse
effects on the sewerage system. See section
3-3-3-1 of this chapter. (Ord. 775-09, 11-3-2009)
      10.   Any waste with an excessively high concentration of cyanide.
      11.   Any unreasonably large amounts of undissolved or dissolved solids.
      12.   Any wastes with excessively high BOD, COD or decomposable organic
content.
      13.   Any strong odorous waste or waste tending to create odors.
      14.   Any wastes containing over 0.1 mg. per liter of dissolved
sulphides.
      15.   Any wastes with a pH high enough to cause alkaline encrustations on
sewer walls.
      16.   Any substance promoting or causing the promotion of toxic gases.
      17.   Any waste having a temperature of one hundred twenty degrees
Fahrenheit (120°F) or higher.
      18.   Any waste requiring an excessive quantity of chlorine or other
chemical compound used for disinfection purpose.
      19.   Any excessive amounts of chlorinated hydrocarbon or organic type
phosphorous type compounds.
      20.   Any excessive amounts of deionized water, steam condensate, or
distilled water.
      21.   Any waste containing substances that may precipitate, solidify, or
become viscous at temperatures between fifty degrees Fahrenheit (50°F) and one
hundred degrees Fahrenheit (100°F).
      22.   Any waste producing excessive discoloration of wastewater or
treatment plant effluent.
      23.   Any garbage or waste that is not ground sufficiently to pass
through a three-eighths inch (3/8") screen.
      24.   Any waste containing excessive quantities of iron, boron, chromium,
phenols, plastic resins, copper, nickel, zinc, lead, mercury, cadmium, solanum,
arsenic or any other objectionable materials, toxic to humans, animals, the
local environment or to biological or other wastewater treatment processes.
      25.   Any blowdown or bleedwater from cooling towers or other evaporative
coolers, exceeding one-third (1/3) of the make-up water.
      26.   Any single pass cooling water.
      27.   Any excessive quantities of radioactive material wastes.
      28.   Recognizable portions of the human anatomy.
No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged to any public sewer which
is a part of the sewerage system of the City any wastes which may have an
adverse or harmful effect on sewers, maintenance personnel, wastewater
treatment plant personnel, or equipment, treatment plant effluent quality,
public or private property or may otherwise endanger the public, the local
government or create a public nuisance.
The City Council may from time to time establish by resolution quantitative
limitations with respect to the waste referred to in this subsection (F)
subparagraphs 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 15, 18, 19, 20, 22, 24 and 27. Such
limitations shall be designed to maintain compliance with applicable State and
Federal requirements.
   (G)   Hospital Wastes, Hospitals, Clinics, Offices Of Medical Doctors And
Convalescent Homes:
      1.   May discharge through a City-approved grinder installation with
inlet size and design features suitable for its intended use and so constructed
so that all particles pass through a maximum three-eighths inch (3/8") opening,
wastes of the following categories;
         (a)   Wet organic kitchen waste from food preparation and disposal,
but not including all paper and plastic items.
         (b)   Disposal hypodermic needles, syringes, and associated articles
following their use, except as provided in subsection (G)2(a) of this Section.
      2.   Shall not discharge to the sewer by any means:
         (a)   Solid wastes generated in the rooms of patients who are isolated
because of a suspected or diagnosed communicable disease.
         (b)   Recognized portions of the human anatomy.
         (c)   Wastes excluded by other provisions of this Chapter, except as
specifically permitted in subsection (G)1 above.
         (d)   All solid wastes not in included in subsection (G)1 above.
Nothing in this Section shall be construed to limit the authority of the Health
Officer of the City to define wastes as being infections and, with the
concurrence of the Director of Public Works to require that they be discharged
to the sewer.
   (H)   Availability Of City's Sewerage Facilities: If sewerage capacity is
not available, the City may require the industrial wastewater discharger to
restrict his discharge until sufficient capacity can be made available. The
City may refuse service to persons locating facilities in areas where their
proposed quantity or quality of industrial wastewater is unacceptable in the
available treatment facility.
   (I)   Industrial Wastewater Treatment Surcharge: An industrial wastewater
treatment surcharge may be required by the City Council to be paid to the City
annually for the following fiscal year for the service of acceptance and
treatment of industrial waste from those industrial wastewater dischargers
whose contribution of flow, chemical oxygen demand, suspended solids, or peak
flow create costs in excess of that created by average commercial and
residential sewage effluent quantity and quality as determined by the City from
physical flow measurements and laboratory tests of the various components of
sewage discharged to City's sewerage system. The treatment surcharge shall be
based on the sewerage system's total maintenance, operation and capital
expenditures for providing industrial wastewater collection, treatment and
disposal services.
The annual industrial wastewater treatment surcharge for any such discharger
which shall be a charge in addition to the basic charge determination based
upon the recommendation of the Director of Public Works of the average flow,
chemical oxygen demand, and suspended solids component as discharged from the
average residential unit within the City. The annual industrial wastewater
treatment surcharge shall be computed by the following formula:
Surcharge equals a x (V) + b x (COD) + c x (SS).
Where: Surcharge equals the net annual industrial wastewater treatment
surcharge in dollars (no refund will be made if a negative number results).
V equals total annual volume of industrial flow in millions of gallons.
COD equals total annual discharge of chemical oxygen demand in thousands of
pounds.
SS equals total annual discharge of suspended solids in thousands of pounds.
a, b and c equal unit charge rates adopted annually by resolution of the City
Council based upon the projected annual total cost for wastewater collection,
treatment, and disposal in dollars per unit as described in Section 10.
The quantities of yearly total flows, COD and SS, used in above formula may be
established by engineering estimation, short term sampling, analysis, and flow
measurement extrapolated to a yearly total by extensive sampling analysis and
flow measurement, all as approved by the Director of Public Works. The Director
of Public Works shall set the minimum requirements for sampling, analysis and
flow measurement by the discharger necessary to establish quantities to be used
in the above formula.
The industrial discharger may be required to discharge peak rates of industrial
flow during the nighttime hours or between other specific hours of the day.
Costs for treatment of certain components within sewage which can be directly
attributable to certain individual dischargers may be charged directly to the
particular discharger when that component requiring such excessive treatment or
maintenance cost of the sewage system is directly traceable to said discharger.
Said additional costs shall be in addition to the basic charge and any
surcharge computed as set forth in this Section.
   (J)   Unit charge rates "a", "b" and "c" in the industrial wastewater
treatment surcharge shall be established from time to time by resolution of the
City Council. Appropriate unit charge rate parameters for flow chemical oxygen
demand and suspended solids respectively designated "a" (in dollars per million
gallons), "b" (in dollars per one thousand pounds of COD), and "c" (in dollars
per one thousand pounds of suspended solids) - shall be determined by the
following method:
      1.   The total annual operation and maintenance costs of the sewerage
system shall be estimated for each succeeding year and distributed among the
three (3) wastewater charge parameters of flow, chemical oxygen demand and
suspended solids in accordance with the average distribution of such costs
predominantly related to each parameter in accordance with California State
Water Resources Control Board Revenue Program Guidelines for Wastewater
Agencies dated September 1974, Appendix "E" thereof.
      2.   The total annual capital costs of the sewerage system shall be
calculated as (1/30th) of the total capital investment in the operating
sewerage system. These capital costs shall be distributed among the wastewater
charge parameters of flow, chemical oxygen demand and suspended solids in
accordance with a determination of the portion of the capital costs
predominantly related to each parameter; said determination to conform to the
California State Water Resources Control Board Revenue Program Guidelines for
Wastewater Agencies dated September 1974, Appendix "E" thereof.
      3.   The sum of total annual operation and maintenance costs in 1 above
and the total annual capital costs in 2 above as distributed to the three (3)
wastewater charge parameters of flow, chemical oxygen demand, and suspended
solids shall be divided by the projected annual total flow volume and weights
of chemical oxygen demand and suspended solids, respectively, to be treated by
the sewerage system for each succeeding year. The unit wastewater charge rates
so determined will be expressed in dollars per million gallons for (a) and in
dollars per thousand pounds for (b) and (c).
   (K)   Pretreatment Of Industrial Wastewaters: An industrial wastewater
pretreatment system or device may be required by the City Council on the
recommendations of the Director of Public Works to treat industrial flows prior
to discharge to the City's sewerage system when it is necessary to restrict or
prevent the discharge to the sewer of certain waste constituents, to distribute
more equally over a longer period of peak discharges of wastewaters or to
accomplish any pretreatment result recommended by the Director of Public Works
to protect the sewerage system of the City. All such pretreatment systems or
devices shall not absolve the industrial discharger of the responsibility of
meeting any industrial effluent limitation required by the City. All
pretreatment systems shall have plans prepared and signed by an engineer of
suitable discipline licensed in the State.
   (L)   Control Manhole And Separation Of Domestic And Industrial Wastewaters:
All domestic or sanitary wastewaters from restrooms, shower, drinking
fountains, etc., shall be kept separate from all industrial wastewaters until
the industrial wastewaters have passed through any required pretreatment system
or device. A control manhole may be required to be installed by certain
designated industrial wastewater dischargers to which City personnel shall have
unrestricted access for the purposes of inspection, sampling and flow
measurement. Such control manhole may be used as a junction manhole for
domestic sewage and industrial waste provided the junction occurs downstream of
the sampling or flow measuring point.
   (M)   Industrial Wastewater Sampling Analysis And Flow Measurement: Periodic
measurements of flow rates, flow volumes, COD, and suspended solids for use in
determining the annual industrial wastewater treatment surcharge and such
measurements of other constituents believed necessary by the Director of Public
Works shall be made for each industrial wastewater discharger. All sampling,
analysis and flow measurements of industrial wastewaters shall be performed by
City personnel or City authorized personnel unless such discharger elects to
have such testing and measurement done by an independent laboratory in which
case, such laboratory shall be a State certified independent laboratory. All
costs associated with sampling, testings and flow measurement of a dischargers
industrial wastewater shall be chargeable to said discharger.
In lieu of wastewater flow measurement, the Director of Public Works may accept
records of water usage and adjust the flow volumes by suitable factors to
determine peak and average flow rates for specific industrial wastewater
discharges or the Director of Public Works may use any other method of
estimation of wastewater flows deemed by him to be reasonable and consistent
throughout the system.
All wastewater analyses shall be conducted in accordance with the appropriate
procedure contained in the "Standard Methods". If no appropriate procedure is
contained therein, the standard procedure of the industry or a procedure
adjudged satisfactory by the Director of Public Works shall be used to measure
wastewater constituents. Any independent laboratory or discharger performing
tests shall furnish any required test data or information on the test methods
or equipment used if requested to do so by the Director of Public Works.
   (N)   Discrepancies Between Actual And Measured Industrial Wastewater
Discharge Quantities: Should measurements or other investigations reveal that
the industrial discharger is discharging a flow rate or a quantity of flow,
chemical oxygen demand, or suspended solids significantly in excess of that
upon which the industrial wastewater treatment surcharger is based, the
discharger shall be required to apply for an amended permit. An industrial
discharger found to be discharging in excess of predetermined rate shall, in
the absence of other evidence, be presumed to have been discharging at the
amended rate since the preceding date on which measurements and tests were
taken. Should measurements or other investigations indicate that the industrial
wastewater discharger has discharged industrial wastewater, chemical oxygen
demand, suspended solids or other wastewater constituents at rates or in
quantities in excess of those stated by the discharger or established by tests
which establish the basis for industrial wastewater treatment and disposal
charges, the City Council may as a condition to issuance of an amended permit,
require that the discharger pay all the charges for such increased rates in
quantities over those established for the discharger as well as any
supplemental charges due to interest, penalty charges due, and all costs of
additional flow metering, sampling, and analysis performed by City employees or
performed by independent laboratories duly authorized by City.
   (O)   Damage Caused By Prohibited Wastewater Discharge: Any industrial
wastewater discharger who discharges or causes a discharge of a prohibited
wastewater, which causes damage to City's facilities, detrimental effects on
treatment processes, or any other damage resulting in costs to the City shall
be liable to the City for all damages occasioned thereby.
   (P)   Pumpers Discharge Permit: All persons owning "vacuum or cesspool" pump
trucks or other liquid waste transport trucks and desiring to discharge septic,
seepage pit, interceptor or cesspool contents, industrial liquid wastes or
other liquid waste to sewerage facilities of the City or to facilities that
discharge directly or indirectly to such sewerage facilities shall first have a
valid City business license and a pumpers discharge permit. All applicants for
a pumper's discharge permit shall complete the application form, pay the
appropriate fee as established by resolution of the City Council and agree to
comply with City's regulations governing discharge to sewers of liquid wastes
from trucks. Discharge of the contents of such pumpers shall be by only those
holding a pumper's discharge permit and shall be only at those designated
manholes as determined by the City. The City Council may, by resolution,
establish a fee schedule for discharging various quantities of septic tank,
seepage pit, interceptor or cesspool contents to City's sewerage system.
The City may require additional payment for special treatment and disposal
costs or may refuse permission to discharge certain prohibited waste. The
pumper's discharge permit shall be valid for one year from the date of
issuance.
Any person negligently or wilfully violating the City's requirements for liquid
waste discharges from trucks shall be in violation of this Section of the
Municipal Code and may have his permit revoked by the City Council. (Ord. 409,
8-7-1978)
3-3-5: SEWER CONNECTION AND USE FEES:
   (A)   Sewer Connection Fees:
      1.   The City Council hereby establishes a Sewer Fund and declares that
all monies collected under the provisions of this subsection shall be used
solely for the City's sewerage system and joint owned treatment facility
replacement and interest cost. The City Council shall by ordinance establish a
minimum sewer connection fee for the connection of any residential, commercial
or industrial property. (See Section
3-3-6 of this Chapter.)
      2.   Any person desiring a permit to connect property inside the City
limits to the sewer system of the City which has not in the past been so
connected, shall, in addition to all other fees, but subject to the same
limitations imposed herein, pay a connection fee for off-site mainline sewers
and general plant facilities required for the disposal of sanitary sewage in
such an amount as may be established, from time to time, by ordinance of the
City Council. Payment of the above sewer connection fee for all lots within
subdivisions may be made at time of filing of a final subdivision map, but in
no event shall payment be made later than, and payment shall be a precondition
of, issuance of a building permit.
      3.   Any person desiring a permit to connect property outside the City
limits to the sewer system of the City may be granted such permit by the City
Council under terms and conditions established by the City Council. Application
for permission to connect with the City sewers shall be made to the City
Council, in writing, and filed with the City Clerk, and shall show by sketch
the location of structures proposed to be connected and the particular City
sewer line and point of connection. Such application shall be accompanied by a
connection fee in an amount as established, from time to time, by ordinance of
the City Council.
      4.   All off-site expenses incurred in connecting property outside the
corporate limits of the City to the City sewer system shall be borne by the
applicant.
   (B)   Sewer User Fees:
      1.   The city council shall, by ordinance, establish annual sewer user
fees for all premises connected to the sewerage system of the city and the
jointly owned treatment facility. Sewer users, as the term is applied herein,
shall mean any person, public or private corporation, the United States Of
America, the state, any county, municipality and all government agencies and
departments, every officer, agency and employee thereof during the course of
his employment who uses or deposits sewage or waste into the city's sewerage
system. "Property" shall mean all real property, buildings, appurtenances and
other improvements occupied by an owner, lessee or tenant as a dwelling or
business, commercial or industrial enterprise upon any parcel of land undivided
by a street or railroad.
      2.   The fees so established shall be paid by the occupant, tenant,
lessee, person in possession, or owners, but if not otherwise paid when due,
the owner of the property shall, in any case, be liable therefor.
      3.   For any special conditions, not otherwise provided for, in the
ordinance establishing sewer user charges, the city council may investigate and
determine a reasonable fee for the sewer service rendered, and its
determination shall be final and conclusive. (Ord. 494, 7-17-1984)
3-3-6: FEES SET:
The sewer connection and use fees set forth hereinafter are hereby established
pursuant to section
3-3-5 of this chapter.
   (A)   Connection Fees: Any person, prior to connecting a building lateral to
any public sewer which has been constructed at no cost to the abutting
property, shall be required to pay a connection charge in addition to any other
fees or charges required by the building and plumbing codes of the city and by
this chapter. The connection charge for such parcels shall be the sum of five
dollars ($5.00) per assessable front foot. Assessable front footage in the case
of interior rectangular parcels having a depth equal to or greater than one
hundred feet (100') shall be the actual frontage of the parcel on the public
street right of way. The assessable front footage for corner parcels, parcels
having a depth less than one hundred feet (100') and irregularly shaped parcels
shall be a dimension which equitably represents the benefits the parcels
received by virtue of the public sewer in relation to that received by
similarly situated rectangular parcels.
   (B)   Sewer Capacity Fees: The sewer capacity fee for all new construction
requiring new sewer connection shall be charged at the rate of two dollars
eighty five cents ($2.85) per gallon per day or an equivalent single-family
dwelling unit charge, and shall be collected as part of the building permit
fee. (Ord. 641-96, 6-18-1996, eff. 7-1-1996)
   (C)   Sewer User Charges: The service rates will be billed annually on the
County property tax bill for single-family dwellings, duplexes, triplexes,
multi-family dwellings, and mobile home parks. In all other cases, the City
will bill the owner of each parcel directly on a bi-monthly basis.
   Exhibit A of this section shows the updated bi-monthly, per-unit sewer rates
for fiscal years 2021-22 through 2024-25. The rates will adjust on July 1 of
each fiscal year and will be billed on the County Property Tax Bill for such
year. Once in place, the rates for fiscal year 2024-25 will remain in effect
for each successive fiscal year unless an ordinance is adopted amending the
rates.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/66e9a239fd54ccd976f313efbae66f704cbcaff5/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2817.png]
   Exhibit A: Bi-Monthly Sewer Rates
   Further details of the rates shown in Exhibit A of this section for fiscal
year 2021-22:
      1.   Single-Family Units: $67.91 per home per bi-monthly period or
$407.46 per home per year.
      2.   Multi-Family; Two-, Three-, And Four-Units: $50.65 per dwelling unit
per bi-monthly period or $303.90 per dwelling unit per year.
      3.   Apartments: $50.08 per dwelling unit per bi-monthly period or
$300.48 per dwelling unit per year.
      4.   Hotels And Motels: $31.28 per room per bi-monthly period or $187.68
per room per year.
      5.   Mobile Home Parks: $62.00 per space per bi-monthly period or $372.00
per space per year based on yearly average occupancy in the preceding year.
      6.   Restaurants And/Or Bars: $13.50 per seat of seating capacity per bi-
monthly period or $81.00 per seat of seating capacity per year, with a minimum
of twice the single-family residential rate, but not to exceed 4 times the
single-family residential rate.
      7.   Service Stations And Garages With Or Without Car Washes: $139.44 per
bi-monthly period or $836.64 per year.
      8.   Car Wash Facilities: $203.04 per business per bi-monthly period or
$1,218.24 per business per year.
      9.   Commercial Laundries And Launderettes: $22.21 per washer per bi-
monthly period or $133.26 per washer per year.
      10.   Business Not Classified: Where the number of workers is 5 or less,
$52.54 per bi-monthly period or $315.24 per year, and where the number of
workers is more than 5, an additional $10.51 per bi-monthly period or $63.04
per year for each additional worker over 5.
      11.   Theaters: $28.37 per 100 seats per bi-monthly period or $170.22 per
year, plus $2.84 per 10 seats per bi-monthly period over 100 seats or $17.02
per 10 seats per year over 100 seats.
      12.   Offices: $39.39 per office per bi-monthly period or $236.34 per
office per year.
      13.   Churches: $62.47 per parcel per bi-monthly period or $374.82 per
parcel per year.
      14.   Churches With Rectory: $67.91 per parcel per bi-monthly period or
$407.46 per parcel per year.
      15.   Hospitals/Rest Homes/Prison: $33.96 per bed per bi-monthly period
or $139.32 per bed per year.
      16.   Schools/Elementary: $1.69 per student/faculty/staff per bi-monthly
period or $10.14 per student/faculty/staff per year, based on average daily
attendance.
      17.   Schools/High Schools And College: $0.89 per student/faculty/staff
per month or $10.68 per student/faculty/staff per year, based on average daily
attendance.
      18.   Swimming Pool: $1.60 per 10,000 gallons per bi-monthly period or
$9.60 per 10,000 gallons per year.
      19.   Campground: $31.28 per space per bi-monthly period or $187.68 per
space per year, based on average monthly occupancy.
      20.   Commercial Standby Charge: All commercial buildings that are vacant
or not conducting day to day business will be charged a rate equal to the
minimum residential rates as a standby charge. These charges will be added to
the property tax roll and shall be collected at the same time and in the same
manner as ordinary city taxes are collected. It is the responsibility of the
property owner to notify the city if the building becomes occupied with an
operational business, removed or condemned by providing documentation to such
and to request to have the charge removed from the property tax roll; any valid
refund requested will be equal to the lesser of 12 months or when the building
was removed or condemned.
   (D)   The Council of the City of Taft transfers the function of collection
of sewer charge assessments section to the County Tax Collector pursuant to
article 1 (section 51500 et. seq.) of chapter 2, part 2, division I of title 5
of the California Government Code to be billed with property taxes. In all
other cases, the charges shall be collected from the tenant or property owner
by the City on a bi-monthly basis, and should the tenant neglect to pay the
fee, such fee shall be paid by the property owner or become a lien against the
property.
   (E)   For any special conditions not otherwise provided herein, the City
council may investigate and determine a reasonable fee for the sewer service
rendered, and its determination shall be final and conclusive. Special charges
shall be collected from the tenant or property owner by the City on a periodic
basis, and should tenant neglect to pay the fee, such fee shall be paid by the
property owner or become a lien against the property.
   (F)   Penalties: A ten percent (10%) late charge (or $1.00, whichever is
greater) will be added to unpaid bills after thirty (30) days from due date.
Said late charge and additional penalties as specified in the Health and Safety
Code shall be made on the unpaid balance of the bill. (Ord. 799-13, 7-2-2013;
amd. Ord. 841-21, 5-4-2021)
CHAPTER 4
PUBLIC NUISANCES; REAL PROPERTY MAINTENANCE REGULATIONS
SECTION:
3-4-1: Title
3-4-2: Findings And Purpose
3-4-3: Definitions
3-4-4: Authority And Enforcement
3-4-5: Duty To Prevent And Abate Nuisance
3-4-6: Nuisances Specified
3-4-7: Public Nuisance
3-4-8: Substandard Property
3-4-9: Informal Notice Of Substandard Property
3-4-10: Formal Notice Of Substandard Property
3-4-11: Declaration Of Substandard Property
3-4-12: Posting Of Signs
3-4-13: Notice And Order To Abate
3-4-14: Request For And Hearing To Contest Notice And Order To Abate
3-4-15: Administrative Hearing; Procedures
3-4-16: Hearing Decision
3-4-17: Abatement After Hearing Decision Or Failure To Request Hearing Or Other
Waiver Of Contest To Notice And Order To Abate
3-4-18: Emergency Abatement
3-4-19: City Expenses; Recovery Of Costs
3-4-20: Recovery Of Attorneys’ Fees; Prevailing Party
3-4-21: Recovery Of Costs; Lien And Assessment
3-4-22: Triple Costs
3-4-23: Judicial And Other Remedies
3-4-1: TITLE:
This chapter shall be known as the NUISANCE CODE, may be cited as such, and
will be referred to herein as "this chapter". (Ord. 852-23, 7-18-2023)
3-4-2: FINDINGS AND PURPOSE:
This chapter is adopted pursuant to the City's police powers and California
Government Code sections 38771 through 38773.7, including any successor
statutes, for the purpose of defining nuisances and establishing nuisance
abatement procedures. Nothing contained in this chapter is intended to, nor
shall it, preclude the City from pursuing any other available administrative,
civil or criminal remedies concurrently or in addition to the proceedings
established by this chapter to enforce this code or other applicable law.
The City Council has determined that the quality of life in the City of Taft is
directly linked to the character and condition of its agriculture, commercial,
industrial and residential neighborhoods. It is the purpose of this chapter to
provide maintenance standards which shall serve to enhance the value of land
and development within the City, and protect the livability, appearance, social
and economic conditions, integrity, and character of the community, and secure
the public's health, safety and welfare. This chapter aims to ensure that all
properties in the City, whether improved or unimproved, do not reach such a
state of deterioration or disrepair as to cause the depreciation of the value
of surrounding property, be materially detrimental to nearby properties and
improvements, and/or create blight.
It is the expressed purpose of this chapter to declare that property owners
shall be responsible for maintaining the land, all structures, landscaping,
accessory structures, paved areas, appurtenances, fences and personal property
situated on lots and premises in the City, be it improved and unimproved
commercial, residential, industrial and open space land located within the
City, in a manner required to protect the health and safety of users, occupants
and the general public. This responsibility cannot be contracted, transferred,
assigned, or conferred to another person or entity. This chapter is intended to
promote compliance with the goals, policies and implementation measures of the
Taft general plan, specifically by establishing minimum standards and
procedures to allow the enforcement of laws within the City, including the
abatement of nuisance areas within the City. (Ord. 852-23, 7-18-2023)
3-4-3: DEFINITIONS:
The definitions set forth in TMC sections
1-1-5 and
1-3-3 are applicable to this chapter. (Ord. 852-23, 7-18-2023)
3-4-4: AUTHORITY AND ENFORCEMENT:
   (A)   Authorized Representatives: The enforcement officer is authorized to
enforce all provisions of this chapter, including conducting inspections and
taking such actions as may be required by this chapter to abate nuisances.
   (B)   Inspection Of Premises: Whenever there is reasonable cause to believe
that a condition, activity, or use of property exists which constitutes a
public nuisance or hazard or there is a reason to believe that a condition of
nonconformity exists, the enforcement officer may request to enter the property
at a reasonable time for the purpose of inspection. If the property is
occupied, entry shall be requested and appropriate identification shall be
presented. If the property is unoccupied, a reasonable effort, as deemed
appropriate by the enforcement officer shall be made to locate the property
owner and to obtain the right of inspection in accordance with State law. The
City may seek a civil inspection warrant through a court of competent
jurisdiction whether or not having first sought consent to inspect. Inspections
may include taking of photographs, samples, or other physical evidence. No
person attending any inspection of a commercial property shall have a financial
interest, actual or potential, in the outcome of the inspection. (Ord. 852-23,
7-18-2023)
3-4-5: DUTY TO PREVENT AND ABATE NUISANCE:
   (A)   Every owner of real property within the City is required to maintain
such property in a manner so as not to violate the provisions of this chapter
and such owner remains liable for violations thereof regardless of any contract
or agreement with any third party regarding such property.
   (B)   Every responsible party, including occupant, lessee, or holder of any
interest in property, other than as owner thereof, is required to maintain such
property in the same manner as is required of the owner thereof, and the duty
imposed by this section on the owner thereof shall in no instance relieve those
persons herein referred to from the similar duty.
   (C)   This duty includes any vacant lot or undeveloped parcel, which shall
be maintained by the owner or other responsible party especially to prevent the
accumulation of trash, rubbish, garbage, overgrown vegetation or debris. If
such conditions exist:
      1.   Upon written notice to the owner of record, by mail to the last
mailing address as listed in the county tax assessor's records or obtained from
RealQuest, that the lot or parcel is the site of dumping or contains trash,
rubbish or garbage, overgrown vegetation the owner shall remove all such trash,
rubbish, garbage, overgrown vegetation or debris within the time stated in the
notice.
      2.   Upon two (2) or more violations of this subsection within a twenty-
four (24) month period, the property owner shall, at the owner's expense, erect
a fence around the vacant lot or parcel of sufficient height and strength to
prevent illegal dumping and/or the unlawful accumulation of trash, rubbish,
garbage, overgrown vegetation or debris and/or unauthorized entry within thirty
(30) days of the second notice of violation. The second notice of violation
shall include a notice that a fence is required under this subsection.
      3.   If the property owner, after being given written notice that a fence
is required, fails to erect such fence within thirty (30) days of the written
notice, the City may apply for an abatement warrant to erect such fence, and
upon obtaining the warrant shall erect the fence. All costs of obtaining the
warrant and erecting the fence shall, at the City's sole election, be recovered
by the City pursuant to sections
3-4-19 through
3-4-22.
      4.   It is unlawful for any person or entity to remove, damage, breach or
in any way interfere with a fence erected under this subsection. The property
owner shall at all times properly maintain such fence, including repair or
replacement, in the event of damage or deterioration.
   The property owner may apply in writing to the city manager to remove a
fence erected under this subsection in the event the lot is being developed and
all necessary grading or building permits have been obtained. Such permission
shall not be withheld if such permits have been issued or if the lot or parcel
is no longer vacant. (Ord. 852-23, 7-18-2023)
3-4-6: NUISANCES SPECIFIED:
The following are hereby declared to be nuisances within the City of Taft:
   (A)   Nuisances Under Law:
      1.   Any nuisance known at common law or in equity jurisprudence;
      2.   Any nuisance as defined by State law, including California Civil
Code sections 3479 and 3480;
      3.   Any condition caused or permitted to exist in violation of any
provision of the Taft Municipal Code, codes or other laws adopted by the City
of Taft, or State or Federal law enforceable by the City as well as any
condition of approval, permit, or other authorization given by the City of Taft
or other governing jurisdiction;
      4.   Any condition or use of property in violation of the provisions of
the Taft zoning ordinance; and
      5.   Maintenance of property in such condition as to be detrimental to
the public health, safety or general welfare.
   (B)   Nuisances Affecting Land, Landscapes, Lots:
      1.   Any condition of vegetation overgrowth, dirt or land erosion which
encroaches into, over or upon any public right-of-way, including, but not
limited to, streets, alleys or sidewalks, so as to constitute either a danger
to the public safety or an impediment to public travel;
      2.   Excessive overgrowth of vegetation, dead, decayed or diseased trees,
growth of weeds or deposit of garden waste that are likely to harbor rats or
vermin and constitute a fire or health hazard. Weeds include plants which bear
seeds of a downy or wingy nature and any other plants, including tumbleweeds,
which attain such large growth as to become, when dry, a fire menace to
adjacent property, plants which are otherwise noxious or dangerous when the
conditions of growth are such as to constitute a menace to the public health,
dry grass, stubble, brush, refuse or other combustible material which endangers
the public safety by creating a fire hazard;
      3.   Overgrown, dead trees, weed, debris or other vegetation causing
detriment to neighboring properties or property values, creates a condition
considered dangerous to the public health, safety and general welfare due to a
variety of factors, including, but not limited to, obstruction of vehicular
line of sight, impairment of vehicular traffic or the ability to clearly
observe safety signs and signals, or constitute an unsightly appearance that
has the potential to degrade or negatively impact the appearance of surrounding
properties;
      4.   The accumulation of lumber, junk, trash, debris or salvage materials
so as to be visible at ground level from a public street, alley or from
adjoining property, except that nothing herein shall preclude the placement of
firewood when stacked in accordance with applicable health and fire codes for
use on the premises;
      5.   Poison oak and poison ivy when the condition of growth is such as to
constitute a menace to the public health;
      6.   Any dangerous land conditions or land instability;
      7.   The accumulation of animal feces or animal-related wastes;
      8.   Any yard that is in public view, in which the lack of landscaping,
irrigation or maintenance results in the exposure of an area greater than six
(6) square feet of bare dirt or is substantially dissimilar to the condition of
landscape on surrounding properties. This requirement does not apply to that
portion of a lot which is under cultivation of a crop or orchard, or which is
landscaped with shrubs or ornamental plant material;
      9.   The covering of the required landscape area in any yard in public
view, with unnatural or synthetic materials whose general use is not intended
for use as outdoor landscape material, such as but not limited to, carpet,
plastic sheeting, or paper products;
      10.   Storage of landscape debris in any yard in public view, for a
period of time exceeding seven (7) calendar days unless screened from view by a
five-foot-high wall or opaque fence;
      11.   Refuse, rubbish, or nuisance waste due to any construction activity
that accumulates in any yard for a period exceeding seven (7) calendar days,
unless it is screened from public view by a five-foot (5') high wall or opaque
fence;
      12.   Storage of construction equipment, machinery, or building materials
in any yard for a period of time exceeding seven (7) calendar days, unless they
are screened from view by a five-foot (5') high wall or opaque fence. If
building materials are kept for a period of time greater than seven (7) days on
any property, they shall be kept out of public view, and stacked in an orderly
manner at least six inches (6") off the ground so as to reduce the likelihood
of attracting rats, rodents or vermin;
      13.   Any gardening items and related equipment stored in the front yard
or in a side yard or back yard abutting a street for a period in excess of
seven (7) calendar days, unless they are screened by a five-foot (5') high wall
or opaque fence; and
      14.   Any property not maintained in accordance with the following
landscaping requirements: landscaping shall be maintained (watering,
fertilizing, weeding, mowing, pruning, etc.) by the landowner (unless otherwise
noted in a rental agreement and/or contract between the landlord and tenant) in
accordance with the following: sites shall be kept clean and maintained at all
times. Weeds and trash (wind blown or otherwise) shall not be allowed to
accumulate on the site. Vegetation shall receive sufficient water and other
required customary care to maintain health and vigor to the maximum extent
possible. Pruning and mowing shall be used to maintain plant health and vigor
while enhancing its form and structure. Lawn/grass turf blades shall be
maintained to not exceed eight inches (8") from grade in height. All dead or
obviously unhealthy plant material shall be replaced with new material which is
comparable to original installation.
   (C)   Nuisances Affecting Structures And Structural Components: Structures
or buildings, both permanent and temporary, or other improvements, including,
but not limited to, walls, fences, pools, slabs and utility extensions, which
exhibit any of the following conditions are deemed to be nuisances:
      1.   Buildings or structures or significant sections thereof including,
but not limited to, exterior stairs, roof, foundation, walls, fences, signs,
retaining walls, driveways, or walkways which are substantially broken,
deteriorated, or defaced;
      2.   Additions, alterations or modifications to the structure, roof, or
fences and walls which are not compatible with the existing structure or
features such as doors, windows, screens, roofs, rooftop appurtenances, fences,
walls, or architectural treatment, not consistent with existing construction,
or is substantially dissimilar to surrounding property;
      3.   Any roof, or portions thereof, that is damaged, dilapidated, or
inadequately or improperly maintained such that it is structurally unsafe, or
allows penetration of water to the sub-structural elements such as sheathing,
roofing felt, rafters, or ceiling, or exposes sub-structural elements to view,
or is missing roof material, or is substantially dissimilar to surrounding
properties;
      4.   Buildings or structures that have broken, damaged or missing
windows, doors, attic vents, and underfloor vents rendering these items
unusable for their purpose and causing an attractive nuisance;
      5.   Garage doors that are missing, broken, sag or buckle to the extent
that they cannot be either opened or closed, rendering the garage unusable for
its purpose and causing an attractive nuisance;
      6.   Any portion of a building which are structurally unsafe, damaged,
dilapidated, in non-conformance with specific provisions mentioned elsewhere in
the zoning ordinance or approved development plans either entirely or in part,
or which constitute a fire or other hazard;
      7.   Any portion of a building that is unpainted or untreated so as to
expose raw building material to the elements or which is visible from any
public right-of-way, street or alley and have faulty weather protection;
      8.   Have crumbling, cracked, missing, broken or loose exterior stucco or
other siding, roofs, foundations or floors (including lack of paint or other
protective finish), broken or missing windows or doors;
      9.   Unpainted buildings causing dry rot, warping and termite, insects,
or vermin infestation, or have paint which is cracked, peeled or blistered
rendering the building in such a state of disrepair as to be unsightly;
      10.   Broken windows or doors constituting hazardous conditions and
inviting trespassers and malicious mischief;
      11.   Any portion of a building which has damaged woodwork or wall
coverings including, but not limited to, unpainted surfaces, chipped or peeling
paint, damaged brickwork, stonework, stucco, or wood;
      12.   Are abandoned, partially destroyed or left in a state of partial
construction and where the appearance or other conditions of any such building
or structure substantially detracts from the appearance of the immediate
neighborhood, have windows containing broken glass, or no glass at all where
the window is of a type which normally contains glass, thereby creating
hazardous conditions and inviting trespassers and malicious mischief. Plywood
or other similar material (of at least one-half-inch (.5") thickness) shall be
used to cover such window space. When such covering is required for an extended
period of time, the material shall be painted in a color or colors consistent
with the remainder of the structure;
      13.   Are unoccupied and have been left unlocked or otherwise open and
unsecured from intrusion by persons, animals or the elements;
      14.   Have exterior walls, fences, driveways, sidewalks or landscape
elements which do not require a building permit and which are in a hazardous
condition, or hinder free access to public sidewalks, or are in such a state of
disrepair as to be unsightly;
      15.   Any swimming or architectural pools or spas not properly maintained
so as to create a safety hazard or harbor insect infestation, or create a
visible deteriorated or blighted appearance, including but not limited to:
water in such pools or spas which has been allowed to stagnate, or to become
stale or foul through lack of circulation; pools in which the bottom and sides
of the pool or spa are not reasonably free of sediment, dirt, slime and algae;
water not sufficiently clear so that the main drain outlet is clearly visible
to an adult standing on the pool deck; pools that have the presence of garbage,
refuse, debris, papers, or any other foreign matter that creates an unhealthy
or unsafe condition; a lack of fencing or other barriers required for swimming
pool and spa enclosures required by law, and premises constituting a safety
hazard inclusive of, but not limited to, lack of security, water stagnation, or
abandoned pools, regardless of whether or not there is water in the pools;
      16.   Pools, spas, fountains, ponds and tanks which are not maintained in
a safe and sanitary manner;
      17.   Grading which does not meet the minimum standards of the City or
any other County or state law regulating grading; and
      18.   Freestanding mailboxes that are not maintained in good repair or
are not structurally intact.
   (D)   Nuisances Affecting Sanitation And Blight:
      1.   Outdoor storage, so as to be visible at ground level from a public
street or from adjoining property, as a part of a continuing practice, of any
of the following items:
         (a)   Broken or discarded furniture, appliances, boxes and containers,
play equipment, toys and similar household articles;
         (b)   Abandoned, inoperative, wrecked or dismantled autos, trucks,
trailers, motorcycles, camper boats or other recreational vehicles;
         (c)   Discarded, wrecked or inoperable machinery and tools;
         (d)   Salvage materials, scrap metal or other building and
construction materials including, but not limited to, dirt, sand, gravel,
lumber, concrete, tile, rocks, bricks and other similar materials;
         (e)   Waste matter, litter, trash, or refuse;
         (f)   Stagnant water or excavations;
         (g)   Any device, decoration, design, fence, structure, clothesline or
vegetation which is unsightly by reason of its condition; or
         (h)   Commercial equipment maintained on any part of any residential
property.
      This subsection does not prohibit machinery installed in the rear setback
areas for household or recreational use, furniture designed and used for
outdoor activities, trash cans in the front yard during the twenty-four (24)
hour period allowed for garbage pick-up and garbage bins when employed in
construction for which a valid building permit has been issued by the City.
      2.   Inadequate or unsanitary sewerage or plumbing facilities;
      3.   Property that repeatedly has been the situs of nuisance activity,
including but not limited to: disturbing the peace, illegal drug activity,
public drunkenness, harassment of passersby, illegal gambling, prostitution,
sale of stolen goods, acts of violence, public urination, acts of lewd conduct,
unreasonably loud noise, or excessive littering;
      4.   Graffiti which includes, but is not limited to, writings,
inscriptions, figures, scratches, or other markings commonly referred to as
"graffiti";
      5.   Defaced, illegal, unmaintained or unsafe signage;
      6.   Unmaintained or broken irrigation systems;
      7.   Unmaintained garbage or trash cans, dumpsters or receptacles that
are visible from public rights-of-way or which cause offensive odors or
constitute a source of wind-blown trash or debris to adjacent properties or
stored in front or side yards and visible from the public street except when
placed in places of collection at the times permitted;
      8.   Unmaintained grease traps, dirt-filled, oil-filled or debris-filled
loading areas, parking lots and trash enclosures;
      9.   Clothesline in front yard areas;
      10.   Property, including but not limited to, building exteriors which
are maintained in such condition as to become so defective, unsightly, or in
such condition of deterioration or disrepair that the same causes appreciable
depreciation of the property values of surrounding property or is materially
detrimental to proximal properties and improvements; and
      11.   Maintenance of premises so out of harmony or conformance with the
maintenance standards of adjacent properties as to cause substantial diminution
of the enjoyment, use or property values of such adjacent properties.
   (E)   Attractive Nuisances: Any attractive nuisance which may cause an
immediate threat to the health, safety and welfare of the general public and
specifically attractive to children whether in a building, on the premises of a
building, or upon an unoccupied lot. This includes any abandoned wells, shafts,
basements or excavations; abandoned refrigerators and motor vehicles; or any
structurally unsound fences or structures; or trash, garbage, rubbish, refuse,
fences, debris or vegetation which may prove a hazard for inquisitive minors.
These conditions include, but are not limited to the existence of, maintenance
of, or the scattering of any of the following over the property or premises for
any duration of time:
      1.   Hazardous pools, ponds, excavations and piles of dirt;
      2.   Polluted water;
      3.   Neglected, abandoned or unattended machinery or furniture or
household equipment, including abandoned, discarded or unattended objects such
as stoves, refrigerators, freezers, cans, containers or packing boxes;
      4.   Graffiti (permitting or allowing any graffiti to remain on any
building, wall, fence or structure for a duration longer than seventy-two (72)
hours);
      5.   Clotheslines in the front yard;
      6.   Unoccupied buildings or structures not secured and accessible to
persons not authorized to use such structures and which pose a threat to the
safety of the public;
      7.   Excessive amount of oil spillage in driveway;
      8.   Abandoned and broken equipment, or
      9.   Neglected machinery.
   (F)   Nuisances Caused By Vehicles:
      1.   For all residential, recreational, entertainment and tourist
facilities, commercial, industrial, institutional, and other high intensity
uses in any improvement area, the parking or storage of motor vehicles,
trailers, campers, boats, and other mobile equipment shall be surfaced with one
of the following materials on a prepared base:
         (a)   Two inches (2") of asphaltic concrete; or
         (b)   Three and one-half inches (3½") of Portland concrete.
      2.   Parking, storing, or keeping of any motor vehicle within that area
of a residential lot customarily considered to be the front yard. The front
yard area does not include the driveway. For purposes of this subsection, the
driveway shall be limited to:
         (a)   One paved area leading directly from the public right-of-way to
an attached garage or carport (whether one-car, two-car, or more), which paved
area shall be limited in width to the width of the attached garage(s) or
carport(s);
         (b)   Where the only garage or carport is a detached rear yard garage
or carport, to the width of a single lane driveway, which shall not exceed
twelve feet (12') in total width, leading directly in a straight line from the
public right-of-way to the rear portion of the lot;
         (c)   One single-lane paved area not exceeding twelve feet (12') in
width leading directly in a straight line from the public right-of-way to a
side yard parking area as permitted by subsection (A)10(c) of this section on
the same side of the lot as the principle attached front yard garage or
carport; and
         (d)   One circular driveway on a lot with a minimum frontage of eighty
feet (80') with no other driveway leading to an approved garage, carport, rear
yard or side yard parking area, subject to the approval of the City Traffic
Engineer. Any such circular driveway shall not exceed twenty feet (20') in
width between the interior and exterior arcs and shall be abutted by a
maintained landscaping area on both interior and exterior arcs. Parking any
vehicle on any other portion of the front yard, whether paved or unpaved,
including in an area leading to an approved additional paved parking area in a
rear or side yard, is prohibited.
      3.   Parking, storing or keeping of any recreational vehicle, trailer,
boat, or camper within that area of a residential lot customarily considered to
be the front yard. The front yard area does not include the driveway. For
purposes of this subsection only, the driveway shall be limited to:
         (a)   One paved area leading directly from the public right-of-way to
an attached garage or carport (whether one-car, two-car, or more), which paved
area shall be limited in width to the width of the attached garage(s) or
carport(s);
         (b)   Where the only garage or carport is a detached rear yard garage
or carport, to the width of a single lane driveway which shall not exceed
twelve feet (12') in width, leading directly in a straight line from the public
right-of-way to the rear portion of the lot; and
         (c)   One single-lane paved area not exceeding twelve feet (12') in
width leading directly in a straight line from the public right-of-way to a
side yard parking area as permitted by subsection (A)10(c) of this section on
the same side of the lot as the principle attached front yard garage or
carport. Parking any recreational vehicle, trailer, boat, or camper on any
other portion of the front yard, whether paved or unpaved, including in an area
leading to an approved additional paved parking area in a rear or side yard, is
prohibited.
      4.   Parking, storing or keeping of any motor vehicle within that area of
a residential lot customarily considered to be the side yard except when parked
on a rock or paved surface. The side yard area does not include a side yard
driveway to an approved side yard or rear yard garage or carport;
      5.   Parking, storing or keeping of any recreational vehicle, trailer,
boat or camper within that area of a residential lot customarily considered to
be the side yard except when parked on a rock or paved surface. The side yard
area does not include a side yard driveway leading to an approved side yard or
rear yard garage or carport;
      6.   Parking, storing or keeping of any recreational vehicle, trailer,
boat or camper that encroaches on sidewalks or roadways or violates any other
requirement of this code;
      7.   Unmounted campers or camper shells stored in the front yard, side
yard or driveway areas;
      8.   Trailers, campers, boats and other mobile equipment stored for
unreasonable periods in yard areas contiguous to streets or highways and
causing depreciation of nearby property values;
      9.   Inoperable, unregistered, or abandoned motor vehicles stored for
unreasonable periods on the premises and causing depreciation of nearby
property values;
      10.   All vehicles being stored or undergoing repairs, maintenance, or
restoration must be registered to the property address and screened from public
view by a minimum five-foot (5') high wall or opaque fence; and
      11.   Commercial vehicles that are being stored, parked, garaged, or
maintained in a residential zone, unless loading or unloading.
   (G)   Other Nuisances:
      1.   Conditions which, due to their accessibility to the public, may be
hazardous or dangerous, including but not limited to:
         (a)   Unused or broken appliances such as refrigerators, freezers, and
similar storage chests;
         (b)   Excavations, wells, shafts, pits and unsecured cellars or
basements;
         (c)   Machinery that is inadequately secured or protected;
         (d)   Buildings that stand vacant for more than thirty consecutive
days, unless the enforcement officer finds in writing that any of the following
applies:
            (1)   The building is the subject of an active zoning or building
permit application or permit for repair or rehabilitation and the owner is
progressing diligently to obtain such zoning or building permit or to complete
the repair or rehabilitation.
            (2)   The building meets all codes, is ready for occupancy, and is
actively being offered for sale, lease, or rent.
            (3)   The enforcement officer may grant an extension up to twelve
months for properties inherited or under probate.
            (4)   The enforcement officer may waive the time limit to remedy a
blighted building in cases where an event such as fire, flood, or earthquake
interferes with the owner's ability to complete the corrective action within
the specified time.
      2.   Excessive individual ornamentation or architectural elements not in
keeping with the overall character of a neighborhood;
      3.   Portions of any property used in such a manner or neglected to an
extent, which subjects adjacent properties to any of the following: intense
visible light; vibrations; excessive sound; electro-mechanical or
electromagnetic disturbance; radiation; air or water pollution; dust, smoke, or
other emissions of odorous, toxic, or noxious matter; or unsightly refuse or
waste; and
      4.   Any water, activity, or use or property that supports the
development, attraction, or harborage of vectors. (Ord. 852-23, 7-18-2023)
3-4-7: PUBLIC NUISANCE:
Any condition qualifying as a nuisance as defined in section 3-4-6 as well as
any violation of this chapter, any other provision of the Taft Municipal Code,
adopted or uniform codes of the City, or State or Federal law enforceable by
the City shall constitute a public nuisance subject to abatement by any means
available by law. (Ord. 852-23, 7-18-2023)
3-4-8: SUBSTANDARD PROPERTY:
Any property within the City determined to be a nuisance or having nuisance
conditions as defined in this chapter shall also constitute a substandard
property, and subject to the procedures applicable to substandard properties in
this chapter. (Ord. 852-23, 7-18-2023)
3-4-9: INFORMAL NOTICE OF SUBSTANDARD PROPERTY:
When the enforcement officer has determined an property is substandard, as
defined in this chapter, in addition to any notices hereafter provided by this
chapter, the enforcement officer may give to the owner of the substandard
property and to any other person whom he or she deems should be so notified,
information concerning the provisions of this chapter, any violation thereof,
how the person notified may comply and any other information deemed expedient.
The enforcement officer may post such information on the substandard property.
(Ord. 852-23, 7-18-2023)
3-4-10: FORMAL NOTICE OF SUBSTANDARD PROPERTY:
   (A)   If, in the opinion of the enforcement officer, a property is found to
be substandard, as defined in this chapter, the enforcement officer shall give
to the owner and any other responsible party concerned, as identified by the
enforcement officer, written notice stating the conditions which make the
property substandard.
   (B)   The notice may require the owner to remove within thirty (30) days, or
within another time limit which the enforcement officer may determine, the
conditions which cause the property to be substandard, and if, in order to
comply with such notice it is necessary to remove any vehicle or any part
thereof, such notice shall include a description of such vehicle and the
correct identification number and license number, if available at the site.
   (C)   Proper service of the notice shall be by personal service or by
registered or certified mail upon the owner and any other responsible party
concerned, and by posting a copy of the notice on the substandard property.
When no address is available for the owner or any other responsible party
concerned from the county assessor's or county recorder's records or contact
cannot be made at the identified address from the county's records, the service
shall be by posting a copy of the notice on the substandard property.
   (D)   Issuance of this formal notice does not preclude the City from
pursuing any other available administrative, civil or criminal remedies
concurrently or in addition to the formal notice established by this section to
enforce this code or other applicable law. (Ord. 852-23, 7-18-2023)
3-4-11: DECLARATION OF SUBSTANDARD PROPERTY:
The enforcement officer may record on title to the property through the Kern
County Assessor Recorder a declaration that a substandard property has been
inspected and found to be such, as defined in this chapter, and that all
parties concerned have been or will be so notified. The costs incurred by the
enforcement officer in the investigation of such properties, issuance of
notices with respect to such properties, preparation of the declarations under
this section, and notification of concerned parties under this section, shall
be due prior to release of such declaration from title. After the enforcement
officer finds that the nuisances triggering the designation of substandard
property have been abated and either that such abatement has been accomplished
at no cost to the City, or such costs have been placed upon the tax rolls as a
special assessment pursuant to section 25845 of the Government Code, or that
the enforcement officer's jurisdiction has been prompted by government
acquisition of the property, the enforcement officer shall record a document
terminating the declaration through the Department of Registrar-Recorder. (Ord.
852-23, 7-18-2023)
3-4-12: POSTING OF SIGNS:
The enforcement officer shall cause to be posted at such substandard building
or property a notice of substandard property and/or a sign to read:
   SUBSTANDARD PROPERTY: DO NOT ENTER OR DAMAGE, BY ORDER OF THE CODE
ENFORCEMENT DIVISION OR DIVISION OF BUILDING AND SAFETY OF THE CITY OF TAFT.
   Taft Municipal Code 3-4, Regulation of Property Maintenance.
Such sign may contain such additional information and warnings that the
enforcement officer considers expedient. Such notice or sign shall remain
posted until the required repairs, demolition, removal, barricading or property
cleanup is completed. Such notice or sign shall not be removed without
permission of the enforcement officer. No person shall enter except for the
purpose of making the required repairs or of demolishing the substandard
building except as specifically approved. (Ord. 852-23, 7-18-2023)
3-4-13: NOTICE AND ORDER TO ABATE:
   (A)   Whenever an enforcement officer determines that any condition,
building or premises within the City is being maintained in violation of the
provisions of this chapter constituting a nuisance, the enforcement officer
shall give a written notice and order to abate to the owner of record as shown
on the last equalized assessment roll and also to any other owner or
responsible party known to the officer.
   (B)   The notice and order to abate shall notify the owner and if
applicable, other responsible party(s), that the enforcement officer has
determined a nuisance to exist; specify the condition or conditions to be
corrected or remedied or actions required to abate, correct or bring the
condition into compliance; specify a reasonable period within which this must
be accomplished; describe the process to contest the officer's determination by
requesting a hearing; notify that failure to request a hearing will constitute
a waiver of the right to a hearing and an admission that the nuisance does
exist and that the abatement order is reasonable and justified; and notify the
responsible party(s) that in the event of the owner's failure to correct the
nuisance within the time prescribed, the City may cause the nuisance to be
abated and the cost incurred on behalf of the City to become a lien or special
assessment on the property, in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
The notice and order to abate may be served as part of or in conjunction with
an administrative citation.
   (C)   The notice and order to abate may be served in any of each of the
following manners:
      1.   By personal service: on the owner or responsible party for the
property where the nuisance is located; and if applicable, on the person, or
agent who permitted, allowed, created, maintained or authorized the creation or
maintenance of the public nuisance if different from the owner or responsible
party.
      2.   By certified mail: Addressed to the owner or responsible party for
the property where the public nuisance is located, at the address shown on the
last available assessment roll or as otherwise known; and if applicable,
addressed to the known place of business, residence, or dwelling of the person,
or agent who permitted, allowed, created, maintained, or authorized the
creation or maintenance of the public nuisance if different from the owner or
responsible party.
      3.   By posting at a conspicuous place on the property where the nuisance
is located or abutting public right-of-way.
   (D)   Issuance of a notice and order to abate does not preclude the City
from pursuing any other available administrative, civil or criminal remedies
concurrently or in addition to the proceedings established by this chapter to
enforce this code or other applicable law. (Ord. 852-23, 7-18-2023)
3-4-14: REQUEST FOR AND HEARING TO CONTEST NOTICE AND ORDER TO ABATE:
   (A)   The owner or other responsible party who was issued the written notice
and order to abate, as the case may be, may contest the enforcement officer's
determination that a nuisance exists by filing a timely and complete request
for an administrative hearing on a City-approved form with the with the office
of the city manager within twenty (20) calendar days from the issuance date of
a notice and order to abate. Failure to file a request for a hearing in the
office of the city manager within the required period shall have waived the
right to a hearing and admitted that the nuisances described in the notice and
order to abate do exist and that the abatement order is reasonable and
justified. In that event, the notice and order to abate issued by the
enforcement officer is final.
   (B)   A request for a hearing shall state: the date and number of the notice
and order to abate; the address or location of the property; the name, address,
telephone and any facsimile numbers, where the person requesting the hearing
may be contacted; a statement explaining why he or she believes there are no
violations of law constituting a nuisance identified in the notice and order to
abate.
   (C)   The hearing will be conducted within sixty (60) days of the date a
timely and complete request is received by the office of the city manager
unless a later date is agreed by the parties. The City will notify the persons
requesting the hearing in writing by first class mail of the date, time and
place set for the hearing at least ten (10) calendar days prior to the date of
the hearing. Service of this notice is deemed complete at the time of mailing.
The failure to receive a properly addressed notice of hearing shall not
invalidate any hearing, City action or proceeding conducted pursuant to this
chapter. (Ord. 852-23, 7-18-2023)
3-4-15: ADMINISTRATIVE HEARING; PROCEDURES:
   (A)   At least three (3) City business days prior to the date set for the
hearing, the enforcement officer and the persons requesting the hearing (or
their representatives) shall ensure that a copy of all reports, statements or
pictures or other evidence they wish to be considered in connection with the
hearing is exchanged so that such information may be considered by the hearing
officer and all parties to the hearing (by the enforcement officer to each
person requesting the hearing and by each person requesting the hearing to the
office of the city manager. Such exchange is to occur by first class mail.
However, if the parties agree, the enforcement officer and the person
requesting a hearing may exchange copies of their evidence via email in
addition to or in lieu of first-class mail. Failure to receive such documents
shall not invalidate any hearing, City action or proceeding conducted pursuant
to this chapter.
   (B)   The hearing officer designated or appointed by the city manager shall
hear all requests for hearings pursuant to this chapter in accordance with the
procedures established herein.
   (C)   The person requesting a hearing may appear at the hearing in person or
by written declaration executed under penalty of perjury. Said declaration and
any documents in support thereof shall be tendered to and received by the
office of the city manager at least three (3) City business days prior to the
hearing. If such person fails to attend the scheduled hearing and does not
submit a written declaration in a timely manner, he or she shall be deemed to
have waived the right to a hearing. In such an instance, the hearing officer
shall issue an abatement order and order in favor of the City. Notice of such
final abatement order shall be given in accordance with subsection
3-4-13(C).
   (D)   At the hearing, the hearing officer shall accept reliable evidence
from any person if such evidence bears on the issue of whether violations of
law constituting a nuisance as stated in the notice and order to abate exist on
the subject property. The hearing officer is authorized to take testimony and
is authorized to administer oaths or affirmations pursuant to California Code
of Civil Procedure section 2093(a). The City may issue subpoenas requiring
attendance of witnesses or production of books or other documents for evidence
or testimony at the hearing in accordance with section
1-1-12.
   (E)   Administrative hearings are informal and formal rules of evidence and
discovery do not apply. The City bears the burden of proof to establish, by
competent evidence, the existence of the violations of law constituting a
nuisance and responsibility therefor, by a preponderance of evidence. The
person requesting the hearing and enforcement officer (or their
representatives) shall have an opportunity to present evidence and witnesses
and to cross-examine witnesses. A person requesting the hearing may bring an
interpreter to the hearing, provided there is no expense to the City therefor.
The hearing officer may question any person who presents evidence or who
testifies at any hearing.
   (F)   Hearings may be continued once at the request of a person requesting
the hearing or the enforcement officer who issued the notice and order to
abate. The hearing officer may also continue the hearing for cause. (Ord. 852-
23, 7-18-2023)
3-4-16: HEARING DECISION:
Based upon the evidence regarding the violations of law constituting a nuisance
(or lack thereof) submitted in connection with the hearing, the hearing officer
shall determine whether or not the notice and order to abate properly states
violations of law constituting a nuisance. As soon as is practicable following
the close of such hearing, and no later than fourteen (14) business days
following the close of the hearing unless cause exists therefor, the hearing
officer shall render a written decision on the matter. If the notice and order
to abate is upheld, in full or partial, the hearing officer shall issue an
order requiring the abatement of the nuisance conditions in a reasonable time
and manner as set forth in the order and shall also notify the owner(s) that in
the event the responsible party(s) fail to correct the violation of law within
the time prescribed, the City may cause the violation of law to be abated and
the cost of such abatement will be recorded as a lien or special assessment on
the property, in accordance with the provisions of this code. The hearing
officer shall promptly give written notice to the person requesting the hearing
and to the owner(s) and any other interested person who requests, in writing,
notice of such decision, including a copy of the order. The order issued by the
hearing officer shall be deemed a final order and may be judicially reviewed
pursuant to California Code of Civil Procedure section 1094.6. There is no
right to an appeal to the City Council. (Ord. 852-23, 7-18-2023)
3-4-17: ABATEMENT AFTER HEARING DECISION OR FAILURE TO REQUEST HEARING OR OTHER
WAIVER OF CONTEST TO NOTICE AND ORDER TO ABATE:
At no cost to the City, the owner and other responsible party shall comply with
all of the provisions of any final abatement order. If such persons fail, for
any reason, to comply with a final abatement order within the time required in
the order, the city manager, or his or her designee, may cause the nuisance
described in the abatement order to be abated by City forces or by private
contractor. The City is authorized to take such action as needed to gain entry
upon the property where the violations of law exists for purposes of abating
those violations. The City may seek a civil abatement warrant through a court
of competent jurisdiction. (Ord. 852-23, 7-18-2023)
3-4-18: EMERGENCY ABATEMENT:
Notwithstanding any other provision of this code, whenever the city manager, or
his or her designee, determines that a nuisance, as defined in this chapter, or
in any other applicable law, exists, and that such nuisance constitutes an
immediate threat, hazard or danger to persons or property, the city manager, or
his or her designee, without observing the procedures set forth in this chapter
with reference to nuisance abatement, may forthwith immediately cause the
abatement of such nuisance in such manner as the city manager, or his or her
designee, determines is reasonably required. If the city manager, or his or her
designee, deems it feasible, the city manager, or his or her designee, shall
attempt to give the owner and any occupants verbal notice of the existence of
the nuisance, and the proposed timing and method of abatement thereof. The city
manager, or his or her designee, shall, forthwith, report such circumstances to
the City Council. The City shall notify in writing the owner of the property
upon which the nuisance was located, the place or area upon which the nuisance
was abated by the City, and the cost of the abatement. Such notification shall
be given in the same manner described in subsection
1-3-4(C) for service of administrative citations and conspicuously posted on
the property containing the abated nuisance. The City may recover the costs of
abatement as set forth in this chapter. The City may seek a civil abatement
warrant through a court of competent jurisdiction. (Ord. 852-23, 7-18-2023)
3-4-19: CITY EXPENSES; RECOVERY OF COSTS:
   (A)   After the abatement of any nuisance authorized under this chapter, any
provision of this code, adopted codes, or provisions of State or Federal law
that the City may enforce, unless abatement is achieved through court action,
in which case, the City may utilize the procedure in this section if it so
determines necessary as the case may be, the City shall thereupon serve the
owner of the property where the nuisance exists a statement of costs of
abatement. Service shall be made pursuant to subsection
3-4-13(C). The costs shall become a debt against the property upon which the
nuisance existed, as well as a debt in favor of the City and against each
person or entity who permitted, allowed, created, maintained or authorized the
creation or maintenance of the nuisance. Payment of the costs of abatement
shall be due on the date of the statement of costs, unless timely and properly
appealed as provided in this section.
   (B)   "Costs of abatement" means any costs incurred by the City to abate a
nuisance, whether the City causes abatement through civil, administrative or
other action, in which case, the City shall be entitled to recover all costs of
abatement, including actual costs for abatement, staff costs, administrative
costs, and attorneys' fees if applicable, incurred by the City to cause or
otherwise obtain compliance with this municipal code, uniform or adopted codes
by the City, or any provision of State or Federal law that may be enforced by
the City, even if the violation is ultimately corrected by the responsible
party. Costs of abatement do not include the costs of investigation,
prosecution, or appeal of a criminal case. It is the intention of the City to
provide for recovery of all costs of abatement to the maximum extent provided
by law. The City may recover such costs of abatement by any means authorized by
law.
   (C)   Request For Hearing On Reasonableness Of Costs Of Abatement:
      1.   The owner of the property where the nuisance exists may contest the
reasonableness of the costs identified in the City's statement of costs of
abatement by filing a timely and complete request for an administrative hearing
on a City-approved form with the office of the city manager, within twenty (20)
calendar days from the issuance date of the statement of costs of abatement.
Any owner of the property where the nuisance exists who does not file a request
for a hearing in the office of the city manager within the required period
shall have waived the right to a hearing and admitted the reasonableness of the
costs of abatement described in the statement of costs of abatement. In that
event, the statement of costs of abatement is deemed a final order.
      2.   A request for a hearing shall state: the date of the statement of
costs of abatement; the address or location of the property; the name, address,
telephone and any facsimile numbers, where the person requesting the hearing
may be contacted; a statement explaining why the costs of abatement are not
reasonable.
      3.   The timing for the hearing, the notice of the hearing and the
procedures of the hearing, shall be conducted as provided in sections
3-4-14 and
3-4-15. However, in those sections where reference is made to the existence of
a nuisance, for purposes of this section, the references should be understood
as referring to the reasonableness of the costs of abatement.
      4.   Based upon the evidence regarding the reasonableness of the costs of
abatement, the hearing officer shall determine whether the costs of abatement
in the statement of the costs of abatement were reasonable. As soon as is
practicable following the close of such hearing, and no later than fourteen
(14) business days following the close of the hearing unless cause exists
therefor, the hearing officer shall render a written decision on the matter. If
the costs of abatement were found to be reasonable or the hearing officer found
another cost reasonable based on the evidence, the hearing officer shall issue
an order requiring the payment of the costs of abatement in a reasonable time
and manner as set forth in the order and shall also notify the owner that in
the event the owner fails reimburse the City within the time prescribed, the
City will have the option to ensure reimbursement in accordance with the
provisions of chapter 4, title III and other available remedies under the law.
The hearing officer shall promptly give written notice to the person requesting
the hearing and to the owner(s) and any other interested person who requests,
in writing, notice of such decision, including a copy of the order. The order
issued by the hearing officer shall be deemed a final order and may be
judicially reviewed pursuant to California Code of Civil Procedure section
1094.6.
      5.   If the owner fails to reimburse the City after a final order, the
City will have the option to ensure reimbursement in accordance with the
provisions of chapter 4, title III, including sections
3-4-20 through
3-4-21, and other available remedies under the law. (Ord. 852-23, 7-18-2023)
3-4-20: RECOVERY OF ATTORNEYS’ FEES; PREVAILING PARTY:
Any recovery of attorneys' fees for abatement of a nuisance shall be in
accordance with section
1-1-14. (Ord. 852-23, 7-18-2023)
3-4-21: RECOVERY OF COSTS; LIEN AND ASSESSMENT:
   (A)   Lien: Pursuant to California Government Code sections 38773, 38773.1,
and 38773.5, and any successor statutes, persons failing to abate a nuisance as
ordered pursuant to this chapter shall be obligated to reimburse the City for
all of the City's costs of abating the nuisance. A nuisance abatement lien in
favor of the City for such expenses of the City shall be created and recorded
if reimbursement is not made, pursuant to this section. The lien shall specify
the amount of the lien, the name of the City, the date of the abatement order,
the street address, legal description and assessor's parcel number of the
parcel on which the lien is imposed, and the name and address of the recorded
owner of the parcel.
   (B)   Notice Of Proposed Recordings: Prior to the recordation of the lien,
an itemized notice of the lien amount and proposed recording shall be served on
the property owner of record of the parcel of land on which the nuisance was
abated by the City, based on the last equalized assessment roll or the
supplemental roll, whichever is more current. The notice shall be served in the
same manner as a summons in a civil action in accordance with California Code
of Civil Procedure section 415.10, et seq. If the owner of record, after
diligent search, cannot be found, the notice may be served by posting a copy
thereof in a conspicuous place upon the property for a period of ten (10) days,
   and publication thereof in a newspaper of general circulation published in
the county in which the property is located. The notice of lien shall be in the
form substantially as follows:
NOTICE OF LIEN
(Claim of City of Taft)
   Pursuant to the authority vested by the provisions of chapter 4, title III
of the Taft Municipal Code, the City Manager of the City of Taft (or his
designated representative) did, on or about [MONTH] [DAY], [YEAR], cause the
premises hereinafter described to be rehabilitated, or the building or
structure on the property hereinafter described to be repaired or demolished,
in order to abate a public nuisance on said real property; in so doing, the
city incurred costs, expenses, and fees that have not been reimbursed by the
responsible parties; and said costs, expenses, and fees having become final
under chapter 8.28 and not having been paid nor any part thereof; and said City
of Taft does hereby claim a lien against the premises hereinafter described in
the amount of $_______ until this amount is paid in full and discharged of
record.
   The real property above mentioned, and upon which a lien is claimed, is that
certain parcel of land lying and being within the City of Taft, County of Kern,
State of California, and more particularly described as follows:
   Property Address:________________________
   APN: __________________________________
   Legal Description:
   ____________________________________________________________
__________________________________________________________________
____________________
   Dated this [DAY] of [MONTH], [YEAR].
   City of Taft
   _____________________________
   City Manager (or title of his duly authorized representative)
   (C)   Recording: If the owner fails to pay the lien amount within ten (10)
days of the notice, the City's nuisance abatement lien shall then be recorded
in the Kern County recorder's office, and from the date of recording shall have
the force, effect, and priority of a judgment lien and may be collected in any
manner provided by law for collection of judgment liens.
   (D)   Special Assessment: The City's total costs described in this chapter
may, as an alternative to lien procedure provided above, be collected as a
special assessment against the lot or parcel on which the nuisance existed in
accordance with California Government Code section 38773.5.
   (E)   Notice Of Special Assessment: Prior to the special assessment, the
City shall give notice to the owner, by certified mail, if the property owner's
identity can be determined from the county assessor's or county recorder's
records. The notice shall be given at the time of imposing the assessment and
shall specify that the property may be sold after three (3) years by the tax
collector for unpaid delinquent assessments.
   (F)   Recording Of Special Assessment: The special assessment may be
recorded against the lot or parcel on which the nuisance existed. The recording
shall specify that the lot or parcel on which the nuisance existed may be sold
after three (3) years by the tax collector for the unpaid delinquent
assessments. The notice of special assessment shall be in the form
substantially as follows:
NOTICE OF SPECIAL ASSESSMENT
(Claim of City of Taft)
   Pursuant to the authority vested by the provisions of chapter 4, title III
of the Taft Municipal Code, the City Manager of the City of Taft (or his
designated representative) did, on or about [MONTH] [DAY], [YEAR], cause the
premises hereinafter described to be rehabilitated, or the building or
structure on the property hereinafter described to be repaired or demolished,
in order to abate a public nuisance on said real property; in so doing, the
City incurred costs, expenses, and fees that have not been reimbursed by the
responsible parties; and said costs, expenses, and fees having become final
under chapter 4, title III and not having been paid nor any part thereof; and
said City of Taft does hereby claim a special assessment against the premises
hereinafter described in the amount of $_______ until this amount is paid in
full and discharged of record.
   The real property above mentioned, and upon which a special assessment is
claimed, is that certain parcel of land lying and being within the City of
Taft, County of Kern, State of California, and more particularly described as
follows:
   Property Address:________________________
   APN: __________________________________
   Legal Description:
   ____________________________________________________________
__________________________________________________________________
__________________________________
   Dated this [DAY] day of [MONTH], [YEAR].
   City of Taft
   _____________________________
   City Manager (or title of his duly authorized representative)
   (G)   Satisfaction: In the event that the lien or special assessment is
discharged, released, or satisfied, either through payment or foreclosure, a
notice of the discharge containing the information specified in the lien shall
be recorded by the City.
   (H)   Fees: Any fees or costs incurred by the City for processing, recording
of the lien and providing notice to the property owner may be recovered by the
City as part of its foreclosure action to enforce the lien.
   (I)   Cumulative: This mechanism of cost recovery is intended to be
cumulative and may be used in conjunction with or in lieu of each other remedy
available to the City under the law. (Ord. 852-23, 7-18-2023)
3-4-22: TRIPLE COSTS:
Pursuant to California Government Code section 38773.7, and any successor
statutes, upon entry of a second or subsequent civil or criminal judgment
within a two (2) year period finding that an owner of property is responsible
for a condition that may be abated in accordance with this chapter, except
conditions abated pursuant to Health and Safety Code section 17980, the court
may order the owner to pay treble the costs of the abatement. (Ord. 852-23, 7-
18-2023)
3-4-23: JUDICIAL AND OTHER REMEDIES:
   (A)   Nothing in this chapter shall be deemed to prevent the city Attorney
or other designated person from:
      1.   Commencing a civil action in a court of competent jurisdiction to
enforce all or any of the provisions of any abatement order;
      2.   Commencing a civil action in a court of competent jurisdiction to
enjoin any violation of this chapter;
      3.   Commencing a civil action in a court of competent jurisdiction to
abate a public nuisance as an alternative to, in conjunction with, or after an
administrative proceeding pursuant to this chapter;
      4.   Commencing a civil action in a court of competent jurisdiction to
recover the costs of abatement of a nuisance(s) incurred pursuant to this
chapter or other applicable law;
      5.   Filing a criminal action in a court of competent jurisdiction to
enforce this code; or
      6.   Issuing an administrative citation to enforce this code.
   (B)   Where a civil action is filed, if the court issues an order or a
judgment which finds a nuisance to exist, and orders or approves the abatement
of the nuisance, or where the court validates the City's claim for
reimbursement for costs of abatement of a nuisance, the court may also award
the City its actual and reasonable costs of abatement, including, without
limitation, reasonable attorneys' fees incurred by the City in such judicial
proceeding as provided in section
3-4-20.
   (C)   The City may enforce any violation of this chapter by any and all
means available by law, including, but not limited to, civil enforcement
through such means as a restraining order and nuisance abatement action for
relief such as preliminary or permanent injunction, criminal enforcement, and
administrative enforcement. These remedies are intended to be cumulative and
may be used in conjunction with or in lieu of each other remedy. (Ord. 852-23,
7-18-2023)
CHAPTER 4.1
PUBLIC NUISANCES; ABANDONED, WRECKED, DISMANTLED
OR INOPERATIVE VEHICLES
SECTION:
3-4.1-1: Title
3-4.1-2: Purpose
3-4.1-3: Findings And Declarations
3-4.1-4: Definitions
3-4.1-5: Exclusions
3-4.1-6: Chapter Not Exclusive Regulation
3-4.1-7: Authority And Enforcement
3-4.1-8: Administrative Costs
3-4.1-9: Abatement Procedure
3-4.1-10: Hearing
3-4.1-11: Removal Of Vehicle Or Parts
3-4.1-12: Notice To Department Of Motor Vehicles
3-4.1-13: Collection And Assessment Of Costs
3-4.1-14: Storage Prohibited
3-4.1-15: Failure To Remove
3-4.1-16: Violations And Penalties
3-4.1-1: TITLE:
This chapter shall be known as the ABANDONED, WRECKED OR INOPERATIVE VEHICLES
and may be cited as such, and will be referred to herein as "this chapter".
(Ord. 770-08, 10-7-2008)
3-4.1-2: PURPOSE:
   (A)   It is the intent of the council in adopting this chapter to provide a
comprehensive method for the identification and abatement of abandoned,
wrecked, dismantled or inoperative vehicles or parts thereof within the city.
   (B)   Provisions of this chapter are to be supplementary and complementary
to all of the provisions of this code, state law, and any law cognizable at
common law or in equity, and nothing herein shall be read, interpreted or
construed in any manner so as to limit any existing right of power of the city
to abate any and all nuisances. (Ord. 770-08, 10-7-2008)
3-4.1-3: FINDINGS AND DECLARATIONS:
In addition to and in accordance with the determination made and the authority
granted by the state under section 22660 of the Vehicle Code to remove
abandoned, wrecked, dismantled or inoperative vehicles or parts thereof as
public nuisances, the city council makes the following findings and
declarations:
The accumulation and storage of abandoned, wrecked, dismantled or inoperative
vehicles or parts thereof on private or public property not including highways
is found to create a condition tending to reduce the value of private property,
to promote blight and deterioration, to invite plundering, to create fire
hazards, to constitute an attractive nuisance creating a hazard to the health
and safety of minors, to create a harborage for rodents and insects and to be
injurious to the health, safety and general welfare. Therefore, the presence of
an abandoned, wrecked, dismantled or inoperative vehicle or parts thereof, on
private or public property not including highways, except as expressly
permitted, is declared to constitute a public nuisance which may be abated as
such in accordance with the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 770-08, 10-7-
2008)
3-4.1-4: DEFINITIONS:
The definitions contained in division 1 of the California Vehicle Code shall
govern the interpretation of the words used in this chapter except for the
following:
ABANDONED VEHICLE: (A) Any vehicle left on the property of another without the
property owner's permission;
   (B)   Any vehicle which does not have up to date registration and is found
on the property of another or on public property.
CHIEF OF POLICE: Also means any officer of the police department.
DISMANTLED VEHICLE: A vehicle or any significant collection of vehicle parts
incapable of moving or being hauled by the means of which it was designed with
its own power or otherwise and will remain so without major repair or assembly.
INOPERATIVE VEHICLE: Any vehicle which is unable to move under its own power or
which cannot be legally operated on California streets and highways. The term
"inoperative vehicle" includes:
   (A)   Any vehicle from which the engine has been removed;
   (B)   Any vehicle which does not start when the ignition switch is turned
on;
   (C)   Any vehicle which has had one or more tires removed;
   (D)   Any vehicle which does not have up to date registration.
NUISANCE: As defined in section 370 of the California Penal Code.
OWNER OF LAND: The owner of the land on which the vehicle, or parts thereof, is
located, as shown on the last equalized assessment roll.
OWNER OF THE VEHICLE: Means "owner" as that term is defined in the California
Vehicle Code.
PUBLIC PROPERTY: Does not include "highway".
VEHICLE: Any device by which any person or property may be propelled, moved or
drawn upon a highway, off road or in the water or through the air, including,
but not limited to, cars, trucks, airplanes, motor homes, recreational
vehicles, trailers, watercraft (on or off its hauler) excepting a device
intended to be moved exclusively by human power.
WRECKED VEHICLE: (A) Any vehicle which has sustained external body damage or
internal engine damage which exceeds the value of the vehicle;
   (B)   Any vehicle determined to be a "total loss salvage vehicle" as that
term is defined in the California Vehicle Code; or
   (C)   Any vehicle designated as a salvage vehicle by the department of motor
vehicles. (Ord. 770-08, 10-7-2008)
3-4.1-5: EXCLUSIONS:
This chapter shall not apply to:
   (A)   A vehicle or parts thereof which is completely enclosed within a
building in a lawful manner or completely enclosed within a nontransparent
solid fence six feet (6') in height so that such vehicle or parts thereof are
not plainly visible from the street or other public or private property.
   (B)   Inoperable vehicles located upon a parcel that is (1) not zoned for
agricultural use or (2) improved with a residential structure containing one or
more dwelling units as provided in Government Code 22661. All other inoperable
vehicles may be addressed as provided by the other regulatory codes, statutes
and ordinances heretofore or hereafter enacted by the City, or the state, or
any other legal entity.
   (C)   Nothing in this section shall authorize the maintenance of a public or
private nuisance as defined under provisions of law other than chapter 10
(commencing with section 22650) of division 11 of the Vehicle Code and this
chapter.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for a licensed automotive dismantler, licensed
vehicle dealer, automotive repair shop, body shop, tow company or junk dealer
to park, store, or leave or permit the parking, storing, or leaving of any
licensed or unlicensed vehicle or parts thereof which is in a wrecked,
dismantled, or inoperative condition upon any private property, including
dealer's own property, unless such vehicle or parts thereof is completely
enclosed within a building in a lawful manner or completely enclosed with a
nontransparent solid fence six feet (6') or more in height so that such vehicle
or parts thereof is not plainly visible from a street or public or private
property. (Ord. 770-08, 10-7-2008; amd. Ord. 852-23, 7-18-2023)
3-4.1-6: CHAPTER NOT EXCLUSIVE REGULATION:
This chapter does not constitute the exclusive regulation of abandoned,
wrecked, dismantled or inoperative vehicles within the city, and it shall
supplement and be in addition to the other regulatory codes, statutes and
ordinances heretofore or hereafter enacted by the city, or the state, or any
other legal entity. (Ord. 770-08, 10-7-2008)
3-4.1-7: AUTHORITY AND ENFORCEMENT:
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in this section, the provisions of this
chapter shall be administered and enforced by the chief of police or some other
regularly salaried employee of the city designated by the chief of police as
his representative. In the enforcement of this chapter, the chief of police and
said chief's representatives may enter upon private or public property to
examine a vehicle or parts thereof, or obtain information as to the identity of
a vehicle and to remove or cause the removal of a vehicle or parts thereof
which have been declared to be a nuisance pursuant to this chapter.
   (B)   When the city council has contracted with or granted a franchise to
any person or persons for the removal of vehicles and parts thereof pursuant to
this chapter, such person or persons shall be authorized to enter upon private
property or public property to remove or cause the removal of a vehicle or
parts thereof declared to be a nuisance provided that said entry is performed
pursuant to the written authorization of the chief of police. (Ord. 770-08, 10-
7-2008)
3-4.1-8: ADMINISTRATIVE COSTS:
The city council shall, by resolution, determine and fix an amount to be
assessed as administrative costs (excluding the actual cost of removal of any
vehicle or parts thereof) under this chapter. (Ord. 770-08, 10-7-2008)
3-4.1-9: ABATEMENT PROCEDURE:
   (A)   Upon discovering the existence of an abandoned, wrecked, dismantled or
inoperative vehicle, or parts thereof, on private property or public property
within the city, the chief of police shall have the authority to cause the
abatement and removal thereof in accordance with the procedure prescribed in
this chapter.
   (B)   A ten (10) day notice of intention to abate and remove the vehicle, or
parts thereof, as a public nuisance shall be mailed by certified mail to the
owner of the land and to the owner of the vehicle; unless the vehicle is in
such condition that identification numbers are not available to determine
ownership. The notices of intention shall be in substantially the following
forms:
      1.   NOTICE OF INTENTION TO ABATE AND REMOVE AN ABANDONED, WRECKED,
DISMANTLED, OR INOPERATIVE VEHICLE OR PARTS THEREOF AS A PUBLIC NUISANCE
(Name and address of owner of the land)
As owner shown on the last equalized assessment roll of the land located at
(address), you are hereby notified that the undersigned pursuant to this
Chapter of the Taft City Code has determined that there exists upon said land
an (or parts of an) abandoned, wrecked, dismantled or inoperative vehicle
registered to         , license number        , which constitutes a public
nuisance pursuant to the provisions of this Chapter.
You are hereby notified to abate said nuisance by the removal of said vehicle
(or said parts of a vehicle) within 10 days from the date of mailing of this
notice, and upon your failure to do so the same will be abated and removed by
the City and the costs thereof, together with administrative costs, assessed to
you as owner of the land on which said vehicle (or said parts of a vehicle) is
located. You are hereby notified that you may, within 10 days after the mailing
of this notice of intention, request a public hearing and if such a request is
not received by the Code Enforcement Officer within such 10-day period, the
Chief of Police shall have the authority to abate and remove said vehicle (or
said parts of a vehicle) as a public nuisance and assess the costs as aforesaid
without a public hearing. You may submit a sworn written statement within such
10-day period denying the responsibility for the presence of said vehicle (or
said parts of a vehicle) on said land, with your reasons for denial, and such
statement shall be construed as a request to waive the hearing. If such request
for a hearing is not received within such period, the public official shall
have the authority to remove said vehicle upon authorization of a department
head.
Notice Mailed                    
Date
s/                  
Code Enforcement Officer
      2.   NOTICE OF INTENTION TO ABATE AND REMOVE AN ABANDONED, WRECKED,
DISMANTLED OR INOPERATIVE VEHICLE OR PARTS THEREOF AS A PUBLIC NUISANCE
(Name and address of last registered and/or legal owner of record of vehicle -
- notice should be given to both if different)
As last registered (and/or legal) owner of record of (description of vehicle -
- make, model, license, etc.) you are hereby notified that the undersigned
pursuant to this Chapter of the Taft City Code has determined that said vehicle
(or parts of a vehicle) exists as an abandoned, wrecked, dismantled or
inoperative vehicle at (describe location on public or private property) and
constitutes a public nuisance pursuant to the provisions of this Chapter.
You are hereby notified to abate said nuisance by the removal of said vehicle
(or said parts of a vehicle) within 10 days after the mailing of this notice.
As registered (and/or legal) owner of record of said vehicle (or said parts of
a vehicle), you are hereby notified that you may, within 10 days after the
mailing of this notice of intention, request a public hearing and if such a
request is not received by the Code Enforcement Officer within such 10-day
period, the Chief of Police shall have the authority to abate and remove said
vehicle (or said parts of a vehicle) without a hearing.
Notice Mailed                        
(date)
s/                          
Code Enforcement Officer
   (C)   Upon request by the owner of the vehicle or owner of the land received
by the code enforcement officer or chief of police within ten (10) days after
the mailing of the notices of intention to abate and remove, a public hearing
shall be held by the city council on the question of abatement and removal of
the vehicle or parts thereof as an abandoned, wrecked, dismantled or
inoperative vehicle, and the assessment of the administrative costs and the
cost of removal of the vehicle or parts thereof against the property on which
it is located.
   (D)   The owner of the land may appear in person at a hearing or may submit
a sworn written statement denying responsibility for the presence of such
vehicle on the land, with his reasons for such denial, in lieu of appearing.
The notice of intention to abate shall be mailed, by registered or certified
mail, to the owner of land as shown on the last equalized assessment roll and
to the last registered legal owner of record unless such vehicle is in such
condition that identification numbers are not available to determine ownership.
If such a request for hearing is not received within ten (10) days after
mailing of the notice of intention to abate and remove, the city shall have the
authority to abate and remove the vehicle or parts thereof as a public nuisance
without holding a public hearing. (Ord. 770-08, 10-7-2008)
3-4.1-10: HEARING:
   (A)   All hearings under this chapter shall be held before the city council
who shall hear all facts and testimony deemed pertinent. The facts and
testimony may include testimony on the condition of the vehicle or parts
thereof and the circumstances concerning its location on the private property
or public property. The city council shall not be limited by the technical
rules of evidence. The owner of the land may appear in person at the hearing or
present a sworn written statement in time for consideration at the hearing, and
deny responsibility for the presence of the vehicle on the land, with his
reasons for such denial.
   (B)   The city council may impose such conditions and take such other action
as deemed appropriate under the circumstances to carry out the purpose of this
chapter. The council may delay the time for removal of the vehicle or parts
thereof if, in the council's opinion, the circumstances justify it. At the
conclusion of the public hearing, the city council may find that a vehicle or
parts thereof has been abandoned, wrecked, dismantled, or is inoperative on
private or public property and order the same removed from the property as a
public nuisance and disposed of as hereinafter provided and determine the
administrative costs and the cost of removal to be charged against the owner of
the land. The city clerk shall prepare and mail to the vehicle owner and the
owner of the land a written version of the order. Any order requiring removal
shall include a description of the vehicle or parts thereof and the correct
identification number and license number of the vehicle, if available at the
site.
   (C)   If it is determined at the hearing that the vehicle was placed on the
land without the consent of the owner of the land and that he has not
subsequently acquiesced in its presence, the city council shall not assess the
costs of administration or removal of the vehicle against the property upon
which the vehicle is located or otherwise attempt to collect such costs from
such owner of the land.
   (D)   If the owner of the land submits a sworn written statement denying
responsibility for the presence of the vehicle on his land but does not appear,
or if an interested party makes a written presentation to the code enforcement
officer but does not appear, he shall be notified in writing of the decision.
(Ord. 770-08, 10-7-2008)
3-4.1-11: REMOVAL OF VEHICLE OR PARTS:
Ten (10) days after the mailing of the notice of intention to abate specified
in this chapter; ten (10) days after the date of mailing of the order of the
code enforcement officer specified in this chapter; or ten (10) days after the
action of the city council authorizing removal following an appeal as specified
in this chapter, the vehicle or parts thereof may be disposed of by removal to
a scrap yard or automobile dismantler's yard. After a vehicle has been removed
it shall not thereafter be reconstructed or made operable unless it is a
vehicle which qualifies for either horseless carriage license plates or
historical vehicle license plates pursuant to section 5004 of the California
Vehicle Code, in which case the vehicle may be reconstructed or made operable.
(Ord. 770-08, 10-7-2008)
3-4.1-12: NOTICE TO DEPARTMENT OF MOTOR VEHICLES:
Within five (5) days after the date of removal of the vehicle or parts thereof,
notice shall be given to the department of motor vehicles of the state of
California identifying the vehicle or parts thereof removed. At the same time
there shall be transmitted to the department of motor vehicles any evidence of
registration available, including registration certificates, certificates of
title and license plates. (Ord. 770-08, 10-7-2008)
3-4.1-13: COLLECTION AND ASSESSMENT OF COSTS:
If the administrative costs and the cost of removal which are charged against
the owner of a parcel of land pursuant to this chapter are not paid within
thirty (30) days of the removal of the vehicle or parts thereof, the costs
shall, by resolution of the city council, be assessed; become a lien against
the parcel of land and be collected by the tax collector in the same manner as
taxes upon real property. (Ord. 770-08, 10-7-2008)
3-4.1-14: STORAGE PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful and an infraction for any person to abandon, park, store
or leave or permit the abandonment, parking, storing or leaving of any licensed
or unlicensed abandoned, wrecked, dismantled or inoperative vehicle or parts
thereof upon any private property or public property not including highways
within the city unless the vehicle or parts thereof is excluded from regulation
pursuant to the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 770-08, 10-7-2008)
3-4.1-15: FAILURE TO REMOVE:
It is unlawful and an infraction for any person to fail or refuse to remove an
abandoned, wrecked, dismantled or inoperative vehicle or parts thereof or
refuse to abate such nuisance when ordered to do so in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter or state law where the state law is applicable.
(Ord. 770-08, 10-7-2008)
3-4.1-16: VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES:
Any person violating section
3-4.1-14 or
3-4.1-15 of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of an infraction and upon
conviction thereof shall be punished by a fine pursuant to section
1-1-11 of this code. (Ord. 770-08, 10-7-2008)
CHAPTER 4.2
PUBLIC NUISANCES; DANGEROUS BUILDINGS CODE
SECTION:
3-4.2-1: Title
3-4.2-2: Purpose And Scope
3-4.2-3: Requirements And Standards
3-4.2-4: Cumulative Remedies, Procedures And Penalties
3-4.2-5: Enforcement
3-4.2-6: Abatement Of Dangerous Buildings
3-4.2-7: Violations And Penalties
3-4.2-8: Inspection Of Work
3-4.2-9: Appeals
3-4.2-10: Definitions
3-4.2-11: Dangerous Building
3-4.2-12: Immediately Dangerous Building Or Structure
3-4.2-13: Notices And Orders
3-4.2-14: Standards
3-4.2-15: Notice To Vacate
3-4.2-16: Hazardous Utilities
3-4.2-17: Appeal
3-4.2-17.1:Effect Of Failure To Appeal
3-4.2-17.2:Scope Of Hearing On Appeal
3-4.2-17.3:Staying Of Order Under Appeal
3-4.2-17.4:Compliance; Finality Of Decision
3-4.2-17.5:Effective Date Of Decision
3-4.2-18: Enforcement Of Orders
3-4.2-19: Extension Of Time To Perform Work
3-4.2-20: Interference With Securing Or Demolition Work Prohibited
3-4.2-21: City Abatement; Recovery Of Costs
3-4.2-22: [Reserved]
3-4.2-23: Abatement Of Immediately Dangerous Buildings Or Structures; Emergency
Abatement
3-4.2-24: Judicial And Other Remedies
3-4.2-1: TITLE:
This chapter shall be known as the DANGEROUS BUILDINGS CODE, may be cited as
such, and will be referred to herein as "this chapter". (Ord. 771-08, 10-7-
2008)
3-4.2-2: PURPOSE AND SCOPE:
   (A)   Purpose: It is the purpose of the provisions of this chapter to
provide a just, equitable and practicable method, to be cumulative with and in
addition to, any other remedy provided by the California building code,
chapters 1-2, California plumbing code, California mechanical code, California
electrical code and California fire code, or otherwise available at law,
whereby buildings or structures which from any cause endanger the life, limb,
health, property, safety or welfare of the general public or their occupants,
may be required to be vacated, demolished or secured.
   (B)   Scope: The provisions of this chapter shall apply to all dangerous
buildings, as herein defined, which are now in existence or which may hereafter
be constructed within this city.
   (C)   Historical Structures: It is the further purpose of the provisions of
this chapter to foster the preservation of buildings and structures of
historical value by discouraging their demolition and to protect against the
unintentional damaging or destruction of structures of historical value through
the demolition of buildings or structures structurally connected to such
historical structures. (Ord. 771-08, 10-7-2008)
3-4.2-3: REQUIREMENTS AND STANDARDS:
Except as provided herein, all buildings or structures which are required to be
secured or demolished under the provisions of this chapter shall be subject to
the requirements and standards set forth in title V, "Building Regulations", of
this code. (Ord. 771-08, 10-7-2008)
3-4.2-4: CUMULATIVE REMEDIES, PROCEDURES AND PENALTIES:
Unless otherwise expressly provided, the remedies, procedures and penalties
provided by this chapter are cumulative to each other and to any others
available under state law or other city ordinances. (Ord. 771-08, 10-7-2008)
3-4.2-5: ENFORCEMENT:
   (A)   Authority And Administration: The building official shall be
authorized and directed to administer and enforce all provisions of this
chapter, including, but not limited to, the classification of buildings as
dangerous or immediately dangerous. As used herein, the term "building
official" shall include his or her authorized representatives and/or designee,
except as specifically provided otherwise.
   (B)   Inspections: The building official is authorized to make such
inspections and take such actions as may be required to enforce the provisions
of this chapter.
   (C)   Right Of Entry: Those persons entitled to make inspections may enter
on premises to make inspections to the extent authorized by law. (Ord. 771-08,
10-7-2008)
3-4.2-6: ABATEMENT OF DANGEROUS BUILDINGS:
All buildings or portions thereof which are determined after inspection by the
building official to be dangerous, as defined in this chapter, are declared to
be public nuisances and shall be abated by rehabilitation, demolition,
securement or removal in accordance with the procedure specified in this
chapter. (Ord. 771-08, 10-7-2008)
3-4.2-7: VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES:
   (A)   Criminal And Civil Actions: No responsible party, whether as owner,
lessee, sublessee, or occupant, shall erect, construct, enlarge, alter, repair,
move, improve, remove, demolish, equip, use, occupy, or maintain any building
or premises, or cause or permit the same to be done, contrary to or in
violation of any of the provisions of this chapter or any order issued by the
building official hereunder. For purposes of this chapter "person" includes
individuals, partnerships, corporations, or other business forms.
Notwithstanding any other law, any violation of the provisions of this section
or any other provision of this chapter shall be an infraction for each day such
violation continues. Any person violating the provisions of this section or any
other provision of this chapter shall also be liable for civil penalties of not
less than two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) or more than twenty five thousand
dollars ($25,000.00) for each day the violation continues. The city attorney
may seek civil penalties in any civil action brought to enforce any provision
of this chapter.
   (B)   Reasonable Period To Correct Violations: No fee or penalty shall be
assessed for violations of title V (Building Regulations) or the title VI
(Planning and Zoning) unless the owner has been provided a reasonable period of
time to correct the violation before imposition of the citation, except in
those cases in which there is an immediate danger to health or safety. The
reasonable period for purposes of this chapter shall be no more than thirty
(30) days determined in the discretion of the building official, or his or her,
designee.
      1.   Notwithstanding the foregoing, immediate imposition of
administrative fines or penalties for the violation of title V (Building
Regulations) or the title VI (Planning and Zoning) may be had if the violation
exists as a result of, or to facilitate, the illegal cultivation of cannabis.
However, a reasonable period of time for the correction or remedy of the
violation prior to the imposition of administrative fines or penalties is
required in such circumstance if all of the following are true: (i) a tenant is
in possession of the property that is the subject of the administrative action;
(ii) the rental property owner or agent can provide evidence that the rental or
lease agreement prohibits the cultivation of cannabis; (iii) the rental
property owner or agent did not know the tenant was illegally cultivating
cannabis and no complaint, property inspection, or other information caused the
rental property owner or agent to have actual notice of the illegal cannabis
cultivation.
   (C)   Prior Violations: The increased civil penalties, and modification of
the crime classification from an infraction to a misdemeanor, shall apply to
all violations where a notice and order or other official notice from the City
has not been sent to the person in violation prior to the effective date
hereof. The civil penalties and crime classification as provided in this code
prior to the effective date hereof shall continue to apply to all violations
where a notice and order or other official notice of violation was sent by the
City prior to the effective date hereof. (Ord. 771-08, 10-7-2008; amd. Ord.
852-23, 7-18-2023)
3-4.2-8: INSPECTION OF WORK:
All buildings or structures within the scope of this chapter and all
construction or work for which a permit is required shall be subject to
inspection in accordance with and in the manner provided by applicable
provisions of this code. (Ord. 771-08, 10-7-2008)
3-4.2-9: APPEALS:
All appeals provided for hereunder shall follow the processes and procedures of
sections
3-4-14 and
3-4-17. However, in those sections where reference is made to the existence of
a nuisance, for purposes of this section, the references should be understood
as referring to the findings and orders provided in a notice and order or
notice to vacate issued under this chapter. (Ord. 771-08, 10-7-2008; amd. Ord.
852-23, 7-18-2023)
3-4.2-10: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, certain phrases and terms and their
derivatives shall be construed as specified in this chapter. Words, phrases,
and terms used in this chapter, but not specifically defined herein shall have
the meanings defined elsewhere in this code. Where not defined in this code,
such words, phrases, and terms shall have the meanings stated therefor in
"Webster's New International Dictionary Of The English Language, Unabridged,
Second Edition". (Ord. 771-08, 10-7-2008)
3-4.2-11: DANGEROUS BUILDING:
For the purpose of this chapter, any building or structure which has any or all
of the conditions or defects hereinafter described shall be deemed to be a
dangerous building, provided that such conditions or defects exist to the
extent that the life, health, property, or safety of the public or its
occupants are endangered:
   (A)   Whenever any door, aisle, passageway, stairway or other means of exit
is not of sufficient width or size, or is not so arranged as to provide safe
and adequate means of exit in case of fire or panic.
   (B)   Whenever the stress in any materials, member or portion thereof, due
to all dead and live loads, is more than one and one-half (11/2) times the
working stress or stresses allowed in the city building code for new buildings
of similar structure, purpose or location.
   (C)   Whenever any portion thereof has been damaged by fire, earthquake,
wind, flood, or by any other cause, to such an extent that the structural
strength or stability thereof is materially less than it was before such
catastrophe and is less than the minimum requirements of the city building code
for new buildings of similar structure, purpose or location.
   (D)   Whenever any portion or member of a building or appurtenance thereof
is likely to fall, or to become detached or dislodged, or to collapse and
thereby injure persons or damage property.
   (E)   Whenever any portion of a building or any member, appurtenance or
ornamentation on the exterior thereof is not of sufficient strength or
stability, or is not so anchored, attached or fastened in place so as to be
capable of resisting a wind pressure of one-half (1/2) of that specified in the
Taft city building code, for new buildings of similar structure, purpose or
location without exceeding the working stresses permitted in the Taft city
building code, for such buildings.
   (F)   Whenever any portion thereof has wracked, warped, buckled or settled
to such an extent that walls or other structural portions have materially less
resistance to winds or earthquakes than is required in the case of similar new
construction.
   (G)   Whenever the building or structure, or any portion thereof, because
of: 1) dilapidation, deterioration, or decay; 2) faulty construction; 3) the
removal, movement or instability of any portion of the ground necessary for the
purpose of supporting such building; 4) the deterioration, decay or inadequacy
of its foundation; or 5) any other cause, is likely to partially or completely
collapse.
   (H)   Whenever, for any reason, the building or structure, or any portion
thereof, is manifestly unsafe for the purpose for which it is being used.
   (I)   Whenever the exterior walls or other vertical structural members list,
lean or buckle to such an extent that a plumb line passing through the center
of gravity does not fall inside the middle one-third (1/3) of the base.
   (J)   Whenever the building or structure, exclusive of the foundation, shows
thirty three percent (33%) or more damage or deterioration of its supporting
member or members, or fifty percent (50%) damage or deterioration of its
nonsupporting members, enclosing or outside walls or coverings.
   (K)   Whenever the building or structure has been so damaged by fire, wind,
earthquake or flood, or has become so dilapidated or deteriorated as to become:
1) an attractive nuisance to children; 2) a harbor for vagrants, criminals or
immoral persons; or as to 3) enable persons to resort thereto for the purpose
of committing unlawful or immoral acts.
   (L)   Whenever any building or structure has been constructed, exists or is
maintained in violation of any specific requirement or prohibition applicable
to such building or structure provided by regulations specified in this code or
of any law or ordinance of this state or city relating to the condition,
location, or structure of buildings.
   (M)   Whenever any building or structure which, whether or not erected in
accordance with all applicable laws and ordinances, has in any nonsupporting
part, member or portion, less than fifty percent (50%), or in any supporting
part, member, or portion less than sixty six percent (66%), of the: 1)
strength, 2) fire resisting qualities or characteristics, or 3) weather
resisting qualities or characteristics required by law in the case of a newly
constructed building of like area, height and occupancy in the same location.
   (N)   Whenever a building or structure, used or intended to be used for
dwelling purposes, because of inadequate maintenance, dilapidation, decay,
damage, faulty construction or arrangement, inadequate light, air or sanitation
facilities, insects, rodents, pests or other vectors, or otherwise, is
determined by the city building official to be unsanitary, unfit for human
habitation or in such a condition that is likely to cause sickness or disease.
   (O)   Whenever the fire marshal has determined that a building, structure,
or the premises thereof constitute a fire hazard for any of the following
reasons:
      1.   Dangerous or unlawful amounts of combustible or explosive or
otherwise hazardous materials;
      2.   Hazardous conditions arising from defective or improperly installed
equipment for handling or using combustible or explosive or otherwise hazardous
materials;
      3.   Dangerous accumulations of rubbish, wastepaper, boxes, shavings or
other highly flammable materials;
      4.   Accumulations of dust or waste material in air conditioning or
ventilating systems or of grease in kitchen or other exhaust ducts;
      5.   Obstructions to or on fire escapes, stairs, passageways, doors or
windows, liable to interfere with the operations of the fire department or
egress of occupants in case of fire;
      6.   Other conditions including, but not limited to, want of repairs,
lack of adequate exit facilities, automatic or other fire alarm apparatus or
fire extinguishing equipment, which create a hazardous condition.
   (P)   Whenever any building or structure, because of faulty electrical
wiring, or other cause, is determined by the building official to be an
electrical or fire hazard to life, health or property.
   (Q)   Whenever any building or structure, because of faulty gas connections,
heating apparatus or water and sewer systems, or other cause, is determined by
the building official to be a hazard to life, health or property.
   (R)   Whenever any building or structure is in such condition as to
constitute a public nuisance known to the common law or inequity jurisprudence.
   (S)   Whenever any portion of a building or structure remains on a site
after the demolition or destruction of the building or structure or whenever
any building or structure is vacant, unoccupied, or abandoned for a period in
excess of six (6) months such that the building or portion thereof is an
attractive nuisance or hazard to the health, safety and welfare of the public.
   (T)   Whenever any well, septic tank or other excavation appurtenant to any
existing or demolished structure has been abandoned. (Ord. 771-08, 10-7-2008)
3-4.2-12: IMMEDIATELY DANGEROUS BUILDING OR STRUCTURE:
For the purpose of this chapter, an "immediately dangerous building or
structure" shall be defined as any building or structure which has been so
damaged by fire, infestation, seismic disturbance, or by any other cause to the
extent that its structural integrity is irreparably damaged or destroyed and is
in imminent danger of collapsing or where the condition of the structure poses
an immediate and present threat to life, health or safety of the public. (Ord.
771-08, 10-7-2008)
3-4.2-13: NOTICES AND ORDERS:
   (A)   Commencement Of Proceeding: Whenever the building official has
inspected or caused to be inspected any building and has found and determined
that such building is a dangerous building, he or she shall commence
proceedings to repair, vacate, or demolish the building.
   (B)   Notice And Order: The building official shall issue a notice and order
directed to the record owner of the building. The notice and order shall
contain:
      1.   The street address and a legal description sufficient for
identification of the premises upon which the building is located.
      2.   A statement that the building official has found the building to be
dangerous with a brief and concise description of the conditions found to
render the building dangerous under the provisions of this chapter.
      3.   A statement that the building official has determined that the
building must be repaired or demolished at the option of the owner in the
manner and within the time limitations hereinafter specified.
         (a)   If the owner elects to repair the building, all required permits
for repair shall be secured therefor and the work physically commenced thirty
(30) days from the date of the order and completed within such time as the
building official shall determine is reasonable under all of the circumstances,
or
         (b)   If the owner elects to demolish the building, that all required
demolition permits shall be secured therefor and demolition commenced not later
than thirty (30) days from the date of the order, and that demolition be
completed within such time as the building official shall determine is
reasonable.
      4.   Statements advising that the building official:
         (a)   If any required repair or demolition work is not commenced
within the time specified, may order the building vacated and posted to prevent
further occupancy until the work is completed;
         (b)   May order the immediate disconnection of hazardous utility
services (electricity, gas, sewer or water); and
         (c)   May proceed to secure or demolish the building and charge the
costs thereof against the property or its owner.
   Statements advising: a) that any person having any record title or legal
interest in the building may appeal, from the notice and order or any action of
the building official, provided the appeal is made in writing, as provided in
this chapter, within thirty (30) days from the date of the order; and b) that
failure to appeal will constitute a waiver of all rights to an administrative
hearing and a final determination of the matter. The final order is subject
only to judicial review pursuant to California Code of Civil Procedure section
1094.5.
   (C)   Service Of Notice And Order: The notice and order, and any amended or
supplemental notice and order, shall be served upon the record owner, and
posted on the property, and one copy thereof shall be served on each of the
following if known to the building official or disclosed from official public
records: 1) the holder of any mortgage or deed of trust or other lien or
encumbrance of record; and 2) the owner or holder of any lease of record. The
failure of the building official to serve any person required herein to be
served shall not invalidate any proceedings hereunder as to any other persons
duly served or relieve any such person from any duty or obligation imposed on
him or her by the provisions of this section.
   (D)   Method Of Service: Service of the notice and order may be made upon
all persons entitled thereto under this chapter. Service may be made upon the
record owner at his or her or their address as it appears on the latest
equalized assessment roll of Kern County, or as known to the building official.
   (E)   Proof Of Service: Proof of service of the notice and order shall be
certified to at the time of service by a written declaration under penalty of
perjury executed by the person effecting service, declaring the time, date and
manner in which service was made. The declaration, together with any receipt
returned in acknowledgment of receipt by certified mail shall be affixed to the
copy of the notice and order retained by the building official.
   (F)   Substandard Property Declaration; Expungement Notice: The building
official may also issue a declaration of substandard property as provided in
section
3-4-10 and/or an expungement notice as circumstances warrant. (Ord. 771-08, 10-
7-2008; amd. Ord. 852-23, 7-18-2023)
3-4.2-14: STANDARDS:
   (A)   Any building declared a dangerous building under this chapter shall
either be repaired or demolished by the owner in accordance with the applicable
provisions of this code.
   (B)   If the building or structure is in such condition as to make it
immediately dangerous to the life, limb, property, or safety of the public or
its occupants, it shall be ordered to be vacated as provided in this chapter.
(Ord. 771-08, 10-7-2008)
3-4.2-15: NOTICE TO VACATE:
   (A)   Posting: Every notice to vacate shall, in addition to being served as
provided in this chapter, be posted at or upon each exit of the building or
upon any individual unit to be vacated, and shall be in substantially the
following form:
DANGEROUS BUILDING
DO NOT ENTER
UNSAFE TO OCCUPY
This structure is substandard and shall be vacated until certified by the City
of Taft Code Enforcement Division. No person shall enter this structure except
for the purpose of making required repairs or demolishing the structure. It is
a misdemeanor pursuant to Taft City Code Section
1-1-11 to occupy this building or to remove or deface this notice.
IT IS A MISDEMEANOR TO ENTER THIS STRUCTURE OR REMOVE OR DEFACE THIS NOTICE
Signed:                  City address and phone number
Date:                        
   (B)   Compliance: Whenever a notice to vacate is posted, the building
official shall include facts in the notice and order specifying the conditions
which necessitate an immediate notice to vacate.
   (C)   Requirements: No person shall remain in or enter any building which
has been so posted, except that entry may be made to repair, demolish or remove
such building under permit without the consent of the building official. No
person shall remove or deface any such notice after it is posted until the
required repairs, demolition, or removal have been completed and a certificate
of occupancy issued pursuant to the provisions of this code. Any person
violating this subsection shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
   (D)   Occupancy: The building official may permit occupancy of the building
or individual units if the owner corrects those problems which pose an
immediate danger to life, limb, property and safety of the public or occupants.
(Ord. 771-08, 10-7-2008)
3-4.2-16: HAZARDOUS UTILITIES:
Whenever a notice to vacate has been posted and served in accordance with this
chapter, the building official may order the immediate disconnection of any
utility services determined to be hazardous by the building official. If the
sewer service is ordered disconnected pursuant to this section, city water
service to such building shall also be disconnected in order to prevent the
accumulation of sewage on such premises. It shall be unlawful and a misdemeanor
for any person to fail to disconnect utility services when ordered to do so
pursuant to the provisions of this section. (Ord. 771-08, 10-7-2008)
3-4.2-17: APPEAL:
   (A)   Form Of Appeal: Any person entitled to service under this chapter, and
any person who is a tenant may appeal from any notice and order or notice to
vacate issued under this chapter by following the procedures of section
3-4-14 within thirty (30) days of the date of the notice and order or notice to
vacate, but the written appeal under this section shall additionally contain:
      1.   A brief statement setting forth the legal interest of each of the
appellants in the building or the land involved in the notice and order;
      2.   A brief statement in ordinary and concise language of the specific
order or action protested, together with any material facts claimed to support
the contentions of the appellant;
      3.   A brief statement in ordinary and concise language of the relief
sought, and the reasons why it is claimed the protested order or action should
be reversed, modified, or otherwise set aside;
      4.   The signatures of all parties named as appellants, and their
official mailing addresses; and
      5.   A declaration under penalty of perjury of at least one appellant
setting forth the truth of the matters stated in the appeal.
   (B)   Appeal Timing, Notice, And Procedures: The timing for the hearing, the
notice of the hearing and the procedures of the hearing, shall be conducted as
provided in sections
3-4-14 and
3-4-17. However, in those sections where reference is made to the existence of
a nuisance, for purposes of this section, the references should be understood
as referring to the findings and orders provided in a notice and order or
notice to vacate issued under this chapter. (Ord. 771-08, 10-7-2008; amd. Ord.
852-23, 7-18-2023)
3-4.2-17.1: EFFECT OF FAILURE TO APPEAL:
Failure of any person to file an appeal in accordance with the provisions of
this chapter shall constitute an irrevocable waiver of the right to an
administrative hearing and a final adjudication of the building official's
order, or any portion thereof, subject only to review pursuant to California
Code of Civil Procedure section 1094.5. (Ord. 771-08, 10-7-2008)
3-4.2-17.2: SCOPE OF HEARING ON APPEAL:
Only those matters or issues specifically raised by the appellant in the appeal
notice shall be considered in the hearing of the appeal. (Ord. 771-08, 10-7-
2008)
3-4.2-17.3: STAYING OF ORDER UNDER APPEAL:
Except for orders to vacate made pursuant to this chapter, and utility
disconnection orders made pursuant to this chapter, enforcement of any notice
and order of the building official issued under this code shall be stayed
during the pendency of an appeal therefrom which is properly and timely filed.
(Ord. 771-08, 10-7-2008)
3-4.2-17.4: COMPLIANCE; FINALITY OF DECISION:
In addition to the provisions of sections
3-4-14 and
3-4-17:
   (A)   If it is shown by a preponderance of the evidence that the owner has
violated provisions of this chapter, then the hearing officer shall order the
owner to correct the dangerous conditions or demolish the building within a
reasonable time. The hearing officer shall also order that if the owner fails,
refuses or neglects to correct the dangerous conditions or demolish the
building within the time set forth in its order that the City may repair,
demolish or secure the building pursuant to this chapter or institute an action
to compel compliance with its order. The decision is a final decision and shall
be in the form of an order and shall contain findings of fact, a determination
of the issues presented, and the requirements to be complied with. A copy of
the order shall be delivered to the appellant personally or sent to him or her
by certified mail, postage prepaid, return receipt requested. Alternatively, if
agreement is made in writing, the decision may be emailed to the appellant.
   (B)   The order shall also inform the appellant that the decision of the
hearing officer is a final decision and that the time for judicial review is
governed by California Code of Civil Procedure section 1094.5. (Ord. 852-23, 7-
18-2023)
3-4.2-17.5: EFFECTIVE DATE OF DECISION:
The effective date of the decision and the period or periods within which the
appellant must comply with the requirements of said decision shall be as stated
therein. (Ord. 852-23, 7-18-2023)
3-4.2-18: ENFORCEMENT OF ORDERS:
   (A)   General: After any order of the building official or decision of a
hearing officer made pursuant to this chapter is final, no person to whom any
such order is directed shall fail, neglect, or refuse to obey any such order or
decision. Any such person who fails to comply with any such order or decision
is guilty of a misdemeanor.
   (B)   Failure To Obey Order: If, after any order or decision made pursuant
to this chapter has become final, the person(s) to whom such order is directed
shall fail, neglect or refuse to obey such order, the building official may: 1)
cause such person to be prosecuted under subsection (A) of this section; 2)
institute any appropriate action to abate such building as a public nuisance;
or 3) demolish or secure the building in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter or as provided in the order of the hearing officer. In any action
brought by the City to enforce the provisions of this chapter, the prevailing
party shall be entitled to recover its reasonable attorney fees and costs
whether or not the matter proceeds to judgment.
   (C)   Failure To Commence Work: Whenever the required repair or demolition
is not commenced within the time limits prescribed in any final notice and
order or decision of the hearing officer issued under this chapter, the
following shall apply:
      1.   The building official shall cause the building(s) described in such
notice and order to be vacated by posting at each entrance to the building and
on the front door of each unit in violation a notice reading:
      DANGEROUS BUILDING
      DO NOT ENTER
      UNSAFE TO OCCUPY
      This structure is substandard and shall be vacated until certified by the
City of Taft Code Enforcement Division. No person shall enter this structure
except for the purpose of making required repairs or demolishing the structure.
It is a misdemeanor pursuant to Taft City Code Section
1-1-11 to occupy this building or to remove or deface this notice.
      IT IS A MISDEMEANOR TO ENTER THIS STRUCTURE OR REMOVE OR DEFACE THIS
NOTICE
      Signed:                   City address and phone number
      Date:                    
      2.   No person shall occupy any building which has been posted as
specified in this subsection. No person shall remove or deface any such notice
so posted until the repairs, demolition, or removal ordered by the building
official or the housing board shall have been completed.
      3.   The building official may, in addition to any other remedy herein
provided, cause the building to be repaired to the extent necessary to correct
the conditions that render the building dangerous as set forth in the notice
and order; may cause the building to be secured as set forth in the order; or
may cause the building to be demolished and the materials, rubble and debris
therefrom removed and the lot cleaned and filled. Any such repair, demolition
or securement work shall be accomplished and the cost thereof paid and
recovered in the manner hereinafter provided in this chapter. Any surplus
realized from the demolition thereof, over and above the cost of demolition and
of cleaning the lot, shall be paid over to the person or persons lawfully
entitled thereto. (Ord. 771-08, 10-7-2008; amd. Ord. 852-23, 7-18-2023)
3-4.2-19: EXTENSION OF TIME TO PERFORM WORK:
Upon receipt of a building permit application accompanied by the required
permit fees from the person required to conform to a final order and an
agreement by such person that he or she will comply with the order if allowed
additional time, the building official may, in his or her discretion, grant an
extension of time, not to exceed an additional one hundred twenty (120) days,
within which to complete said repair, rehabilitation, or demolition, if the
building official determines that such an extension of time will not create or
perpetuate a situation imminently dangerous to life or property. The building
official's authority to extend time is limited to the physical repair,
rehabilitation, or demolition of the building and will not in any way affect or
extend the time to appeal a final notice and order or challenge any order of
the city council. (Ord. 771-08, 10-7-2008)
3-4.2-20: INTERFERENCE WITH SECURING OR DEMOLITION WORK PROHIBITED:
It is unlawful and a misdemeanor for any person to obstruct, impede or
interfere with any officer, employee, contractor or authorized representative
of the city, or with any person who owns or holds any estate or interest in any
building which has been ordered secured, vacated or demolished under the
provisions of this chapter whenever such officer, employee, contractor or
authorized representative of the city, person having an interest or estate in
such building or structure, or purchaser is engaged in the work of vacating and
repairing, securing or demolishing any such building, pursuant to the
provisions of this chapter, or is performing any necessary act preliminary to
or incidental to such work or authorized or directed pursuant to this chapter.
(Ord. 771-08, 10-7-2008)
3-4.2-21: CITY ABATEMENT; RECOVERY OF COSTS:
   (A)   Procedure: When any demolition, securement or other abatement is done
or to be done under this chapter by the City, the building official may request
city personnel or private contractor(s) to undertake such work. Any and all
work to be done by private contract shall be done in compliance with city
purchasing requirements.
   (B)   Costs Of Abatement: The cost of such demolition, securement, or other
abatement work and other authorized costs may be recovered by the City as
provided in sections 3-4-19 through 3-4-21. (Ord. 771-08, 10-7-2008; amd. Ord.
852-23, 7-18-2023)
3-4.2-22: [RESERVED]:
3-4.2-23: ABATEMENT OF IMMEDIATELY DANGEROUS BUILDINGS OR STRUCTURES; EMERGENCY
ABATEMENT:
   (A)   If, in the opinion of the building official, there exists a condition
on any building or structure and the building official has found and determined
that such building or structure is an "immediately dangerous building or
structure" as defined in this chapter, and if not abated, would, during the
pendency of the abatement procedures set forth in this chapter, subject any
persons or property to imminent threat, hazard, or danger, the building
official, without observing the procedures set forth in this chapter may cause
the abatement of the condition in such manner as the building official
determines is reasonably required. Such abatement may include demolition,
securing, fencing, and vacating the building or structure. If the building
official deems it feasible, the building official shall attempt to give the
owner and any occupants verbal notice of the existence of the condition, and
the proposed timing and method of abatement thereof. The building official
shall, forthwith, report such circumstances to the City Council. The City shall
notify in writing the owner of the property upon which the condition was
located, the place or area upon which the condition was abated by the City, and
the cost of the abatement. Such notification shall be given in the same manner
described in subsection
1-3-4(C) for service of administrative citations and conspicuously posted on
the property containing the abated condition. The City may recover the costs of
abatement as set forth in this chapter. The City may seek a civil abatement
warrant through a court of competent jurisdiction.
   (B)   The city attorney's office or its authorized representative may have
the opportunity to review and advise regarding the undertaking of any summary
abatement, prior to the commencement of any summary abatement.
   (C)   The cost of summary abatement including all administrative costs of
any action taken under this chapter may be assessed against the subject
property as a lien or made a personal obligation of the owner as provided in
this chapter. (Ord. 771-08, 10-7-2008; amd. Ord. 852-23, 7-18-2023)
3-4.2-24: JUDICIAL AND OTHER REMEDIES:
All judicial and other remedies provided for in section
3-4-23 apply to this chapter, unless otherwise prohibited by law. (Ord. 852-23,
7-18-2023)
CHAPTER 4.3
PUBLIC NUISANCES; VACANT DWELLINGS OR BUILDINGS
SECTION:
3-4.3-1: Title
3-4.3-2: Findings And Purpose
3-4.3-3: Definitions
3-4.3-4: Application
3-4.3-5: Authority
3-4.3-6: Right Of Entry
3-4.3-7: Property Maintenance; Duty To Maintain
3-4.3-8: Violations; Enforcement
3-4.3-9: Nuisances Specified
3-4.3-10: Vacant Or Abandoned Building Registration
3-4.3-11: Permit Required For Securing Building
3-4.3-12: Standards For Securing Building
3-4.3-13: Abatement Procedure - Notice Of Violation
3-4.3-14: Appeal Procedure
3-4.3-15: Abatement By City
3-4.3-16: Assessment Of Costs Of Abatement
3-4.3-17: Emergency Abatement
3-4.3-18: Judicial And Other Remedies
3-4.3-1: TITLE:
This chapter shall be known as the CODE FOR REGULATION OF VACANT DWELLINGS AND
BUILDINGS, may be cited as such, and will be referred to in this chapter as
"this chapter". (Ord. 803-14, 5-20-2014)
3-4.3-2: FINDINGS AND PURPOSE:
   (A)   The city council finds, determines and declares that buildings which
remain vacant and unoccupied for any appreciable period of time become an
attractive nuisance to children, a harborage for rodents, an invitation to
derelicts, vagrants and criminals as a temporary abode and as a place to engage
in illegal conduct, frequently including illegal drug related activity, and an
increased fire hazard; that unkept and unsecured grounds surrounding such
buildings invite the dumping of garbage and trash thereon and the congregation
of unauthorized persons who use the property for illegal activity; that such
buildings contribute to the growth of blight within the city, depress market
values of surrounding properties, thereby reducing tax revenues, necessitate
additional governmental services, significantly interfere with the use and
enjoyment of neighboring properties, create an unhealthy and unsafe condition
affecting the public and constitute an unreasonable use of property and a
public nuisance.
   (B)   Protection of the public health, safety and welfare requires the
establishment and enforcement of the means by which such nuisance conditions
may be prevented and abated. (Ord. 803-14, 5-20-2014)
3-4.3-3: DEFINITIONS:
The following words and phrases, whenever used in this chapter, shall be
construed as defined in this section:
BOARD OF APPEALS: The city council.
OWNER: The person identified and listed as having title to the property by the
latest equalized assessment roll of the county.
PROPERTY: Any real property interest or estate which may be granted or devised
by deed. The word "property" includes tracts, lots, easements, or parcels of
land and any and all improvements thereon.
VACANT AND UNOCCUPIED BUILDING: Any building or other structure which is
neither occupied nor used by persons authorized by the owner of the property on
which such building or structure is located. (Ord. 803-14, 5-20-2014)
3-4.3-4: APPLICATION:
   (A)   The provisions of this chapter shall apply generally to all property
throughout the city of Taft wherein any of the conditions, specified in this
chapter, are found to exist.
   (B)   Provisions of this chapter are to be supplementary and complementary
to all of the provisions of this code, state law, and any law cognizable at
common law or in equity, and nothing in this chapter shall be read, interpreted
or construed in any manner so as to limit any existing right or power of the
city of Taft to abate any and all nuisances. (Ord. 803-14, 5-20-2014)
3-4.3-5: AUTHORITY:
The building official is authorized and directed to use the provisions of this
chapter for the purpose of abating those conditions defined by this chapter as
a public nuisance or abating any conditions in violation of this chapter. (Ord.
803-14, 5-20-2014)
3-4.3-6: RIGHT OF ENTRY:
To the extent authorized by law, whenever necessary to enforce any provisions
of this chapter or whenever the building official has reasonable cause to
believe that there exists on any property any condition which is in violation
of this chapter, the building official may enter on such property at reasonable
times to make inspections and/or for the purpose of abatement of such violation
(s). (Ord. 803-14, 5-20-2014)
3-4.3-7: PROPERTY MAINTENANCE; DUTY TO MAINTAIN:
   (A)   Every owner of real property within the City is required to maintain
such property in a manner so as not to violate the provisions of this chapter
and such owner remains liable for violations thereof regardless of any contract
or agreement with any third party regarding such property.
   (B)   Every responsible party, including occupant, lessee, or holder of any
interest in property, other than as owner thereof, is required to maintain such
property in the same manner as is required of the owner thereof, and the duty
imposed by this section on the owner thereof shall in no instance relieve those
persons herein referred to from the similar duty. (Ord. 803-14, 5-20-2014; amd.
Ord. 852-23, 7-18-2023)
3-4.3-8: VIOLATIONS; ENFORCEMENT:
   (A)   In addition to all other remedies and penalties available under this
chapter, under other sections of this code or under other laws, any person,
firm or corporation who violates the provisions of this chapter is guilty of a
misdemeanor, subject to the conditions and requirements of section
1-1-11 of this code, and shall be subject to the penalties set forth in this
code.
   (B)   In addition to all other remedies and penalties available under this
chapter, under other sections of this code or under other laws, any violation
of this chapter may be enforced by injunction issued by the superior court upon
a suit brought by the city. (Ord. 803-14, 5-20-2014)
3-4.3-9: NUISANCES SPECIFIED:
It is declared unlawful and a public nuisance for any owner of any property in
this city to maintain such property or to permit such property to be maintained
in such a manner that any one or more of the conditions described in the
following subsections are found to exist:
   (A)   Any vacant and unoccupied building whose doors, windows or other
openings are broken or missing, so as to allow access to the interior, or
boarded and which is not secured;
   (B)   Any vacant and unoccupied building whose doors, windows or other
openings are secured by boarding, at any time at which there is no current and
valid boarding permit. (Ord. 803-14, 5-20-2014)
3-4.3-10: VACANT OR ABANDONED BUILDING REGISTRATION:
   (A)   A building shall be defined as vacant or abandoned if it:
      1.   Is unoccupied or unsecured; or
      2.   Is unoccupied and secured by boarding or other similar means; or
      3.   Is unoccupied and unsafe as defined in section
3-4.2-11 of this title; or
      4.   Is unoccupied and has multiple code violations; or
      5.   Has been unoccupied for over thirty (30) days; or
      6.   Has an expired business license for over thirty (30) days.
   (B)   A building shall not be considered vacant or abandoned if:
      1.   There is a valid building permit for repair, rehabilitation, or
construction of a building on the parcel and the owner completes the repair,
rehabilitation, or construction within one year from the date the initial
permit was issued; or
      2.   The building complies with all codes, does not contribute to blight,
is ready for occupancy, and is actively being offered for sale, lease, or rent.
   (C)   The owner of a building defined as vacant or abandoned shall register
that building with the planning and community development department within
thirty (30) days after it has become vacant or abandoned on a form provided by
the department. The form shall describe the methods by which the owner has
secured the property against unauthorized entry, declare any future plans for
the property, state whether or not there is fire and liability insurance
coverage, and provide such other information as the department may require. A
registration fee shall be paid at the time of registration and annually
thereafter.
   (D)   Whenever the director has probable cause to believe, based upon an
inspection, complaint, or report from another agency of the city of Taft or
other governmental agency, that a building is vacant or abandoned and it has
not been registered as required by this section, the director shall serve the
owner of record, as shown on the assessor's records, or authorized agent with a
written notice requiring the owner to register the building with the department
as vacant or abandoned and pay the registration fee within the period of time
specified in the notice, which shall be no greater than thirty (30) days.
   (E)   The owner of record of the vacant or abandoned building is required to
post a sign at the front of the building, in a conspicuous location protected
from the weather, which provides the current name, address, and phone number of
the owner of record and authorized agent if different from the owner. If a
notice of default or foreclosure has been recorded for the property, the
lender's name, address, and telephone number must also be provided. The sign
shall be no smaller than eight and one-half inches by eleven inches (8 1/2" x
11").
   (F)   The following maintenance and security requirements shall apply to a
vacant or abandoned building. The director has the discretion to modify these
requirements in the case of a partially vacant building, and to modify or waive
some or all of these requirements in the case of a building that has been
damaged by fire, a natural disaster, or other calamity.
      1.   The property owner shall actively maintain and monitor the exterior
of the building and the grounds so that they remain in compliance with all
applicable codes and regulations, and do not contribute to and are not likely
to contribute to blight. Active exterior maintenance and monitoring shall
include, but not be limited to:
         (a)   Maintenance of landscaping and plant materials in good
condition;
         (b)   Regular removal of all exterior trash, debris, and graffiti;
         (c)   Maintenance of the exterior of the building in a good condition
that is structurally safe and preserves the physical integrity of the
structure, including, but not limited to, paint and finishes, foundation, roof,
chimneys, flues, gutters, downspouts, scuppers, flashing, skylights, windows,
exterior stairs and decks;
         (d)   Removal of business identification signs; repair, patch and
paint sign area; and replace existing cabinet sign faces with a black face so
electrical and lighting is not exposed;
         (e)   Prevention of criminal activity on the premises and trespass by
unauthorized persons;
         (f)   Turning off all utilities that are not necessary for the upkeep
and maintenance of the building.
      2.   The property owner shall preserve the interior of the building from
damage by the elements or plumbing leaks, and keep it free from accumulation of
garbage and other debris, and from infestation by rodents, insects, or other
pests. Active interior maintenance shall include, but not be limited to:
         (a)   Removal of interior furnishings, racks, displays, trash, debris,
vehicles, business identification signs, and other potential combustible
materials to reduce the risk of a potential fire and provide clear paths of
travel for emergency personnel;
         (b)   Maintenance of the interior of the building in a good condition
that is structurally safe and preserves the physical integrity of the
structure, including, but not limited to, paint, wall and floor finishes,
lighting fixtures and switches, plumbing fixtures, heating and air conditioning
systems, and doorways and openings;
         (c)   Prevention of criminal activity and trespass within the interior
of the vacant or abandoned building by unauthorized persons;
         (d)   The personal use of or leasing to other individuals for use of a
vacant or abandoned buildings for storage of personal items, commercial goods,
personal or commercial vehicles, and other similar items, as determined by the
director, are prohibited.
      3.   The building shall be secured against unauthorized entry. The
methods of security shall be as approved by the director, who shall take into
consideration whether the property has been cited for nuisance activities or
criminal conduct by another department of the city of Taft or other government
agency.
   (G)   The owner of record shall maintain a minimum fire and liability
insurance coverage. The insurance policy shall be required to provide notice to
the department in the event of cancellation of insurance or a reduction in
coverage.
   (H)   A property in violation of the provisions of this section is deemed to
be a public nuisance and subject to enforcement by the department and other
departments, as necessary. The property owner may be subject to violation fees
in addition to the building registration fee. (Ord. 803-14, 5-20-2014)
3-4.3-11: PERMIT REQUIRED FOR SECURING BUILDING:
   (A)   No person, firm, association or corporation shall erect, install,
place or maintain boards over the doors, windows or other openings of any
building or structure or otherwise secure such openings by a means other than
the conventional method used in the original construction and design of the
building or structure without first applying for and, within thirty (30) days
of application, completing all steps necessary to the issuance of a boarding
permit and thereafter having a valid and current boarding permit therefor from
the building official.
   (B)   The building official shall issue a boarding permit required by
subsection (A) of this section upon the submission of a written application by
the owner of the property or his/her authorized representative or contractor,
upon the payment of the required fee and upon the confirmation through
inspection by a city building inspector that the boarding or other method of
securing the building or structure has been done in compliance with this
chapter.
   (C)   The boarding permit issued pursuant to this section shall authorize
the boarding or other securing of a building or structure for a period of no
greater than six (6) months from the date of issuance. The boarding permit may
be renewed after the initial six (6) months for an additional six (6) months,
upon the submission of a written application by the owner of the property or
his/her authorized representative or contractor with the submission of the
application occurring no later than ten (10) business days prior to the
expiration of the original permit, upon the payment of the required fee and
upon the confirmation through inspection by a city building official that the
boarding or other method of securing the building or structure has been done in
compliance with this chapter. The issuance of a renewal boarding permit shall
also be subject to all of the following conditions:
      1.   The owner shall submit a detailed plan for correction, repair or
rehabilitation of violations of state or local building and housing standards
and for the securing of the doors, windows and other openings by the
conventional method used in the original construction and design of the
building or structure or, alternatively, a detailed plan for sale of the
property to another person or entity with provision in the sale for correction,
repair or rehabilitation;
      2.   The owner shall submit a time line for applying for appropriate
permits for such work and for completing such work prior to the expiration of
the renewal permit, or, alternatively, a time line for sale of the property;
and
      3.   The renewal permit may be revoked by written notice of the building
official if the owner fails to comply with the plan for such work or fails to
comport to the time line submitted.
   (D)   A boarding permit may not be extended beyond the renewal period nor
may a new application for the same property be accepted by the building
official within one year of the date of expiration of the prior permit, except
upon the submission of a written application by the owner of the property or
his/her authorized representative or contractor, upon the payment of the
required fee, upon the confirmation through inspection by a city building
inspector that the boarding or other method of securing the building or
structure has been done in compliance with this chapter and upon demonstration
that "good cause" for the renewal exists. "Good cause" shall require a showing
by the owner that the permit renewal is made necessary by conditions or events
beyond the owner's control, such as inability to obtain financing for repair or
rehabilitation, inability to locate a suitable buyer, unanticipated delays in
construction or rehabilitation, or unanticipated damage to the property. In
addition, where appropriate, "good cause" shall also require a showing by the
owner that he/she has exercised reasonable and due diligence in attempting to
complete the needed repair, rehabilitation or correction or in attempting to
sell the property. In the event that the building official determines that
there exists good cause to renew the permit and that all other conditions are
met, the permit may be renewed by the building official for a period of up to,
but not more than, an additional six (6) months, subject to all of the same
conditions imposed on the original renewal permit.
   (E)   The fee for the initial boarding permit shall be fifty eight dollars
($58.00) and the fee for any renewal boarding permit shall be fifty eight
dollars ($58.00). Review of and any increase or decrease in these fees shall be
governed by the provisions of section
1-20-4 of this code. (Ord. 803-14, 5-20-2014)
3-4.3-12: STANDARDS FOR SECURING BUILDING:
   (A)   Minimum Standards: The boarding of the doors, windows or other
openings of any building or structure or any means of securing such openings,
other than by the conventional method used in the original construction and
design of the building or structure, shall comply with the following minimum
standards:
      1.   Securing By Boarding Windows: Windows and similar openings shall be
boarded with exterior grade plywood of a minimum thickness of three-fourths
inch (3/4") or its equivalent. Vent holes may be required, as deemed necessary
by the building official. The plywood shall be secured in place by two inch by
four inch (2"x4") or four inch by four inch (4"x4") crossmembers, secured to
the plywood by three-eighths inch (3/8") plated carriage bolts with large
washers at each end and with the crossmember turned so that the carriage bolt
goes through the larger dimension. Bolts used to secure the crossmember shall
be threaded to the correct length. A minimum of two (2) crossmembers shall be
used on each window and, depending on the size of the opening, additional
crossmembers may be required. Each crossmember shall be a continuous piece of
lumber, and each must extend at least one foot (1') past the window opening in
each direction. Bolts and nuts used to secure the crossmembers to the plywood
must be tightened enough to slightly deflect the wood. Bolt heads must fit
tightly against the wood and not give a purchase for pliers or pry bars.
         (a)   Exterior Doors: Exterior doors shall be boarded with exterior
grade plywood of a minimum thickness of three-fourths inch (3/4") or its
equivalent, fitted to the entry doorjamb with maximum one- eighth inch (1/8")
clearance each edge. The existing door should be removed and stored inside the
building. The plywood shall be attached to three (3) horizontal two inch by
four inch (2"x4") wooden crossbars with two (2) each three-eighths inch (3/8")
carriage bolts and matching hardware. The plywood shall be attached to the door
entry with three (3) case hardened strap hinges of the type specified by the
building official and the plywood shall be secured by a case hardened steel
hasp and minimum two inch (2") case hardened padlock also of the type specified
by the building official.
         (b)   Painting Of Boarded Openings: All boarded openings shall be
painted with a minimum of one coat of exterior paint which is of a dark gray or
similar earthy color or a color compatible with the exterior color of the
building or structure.
      2.   Alternative Methods Of Securing A Building: Upon application for a
boarding permit, the building official may approve alternative methods of
securing a vacant and unoccupied building or structure. In making the
determination to approve any alternative method, the building official shall
consider the aesthetic and other impacts of such method on the immediate
neighborhood and the extent to which such method provides adequate and long
term security against the unauthorized entry to the property.
   (B)   Additional Requirements: In connection with the boarding of the doors,
windows or other openings of any building or structure or any means of securing
such openings, other than by the conventional method used in the original
construction and design of the building or structure, the owner shall also
comply with all of the following requirements:
      1.   All utility service to the building or structure shall be terminated
by removal of the meters and termination of electric power at the pole.
Compliance with this subsection may be waived in writing by the building
official as to the electric utility service, in the event that electricity is
needed to power exterior security lighting, an alarm system or equipment to be
used in connection with rehabilitation of the building or structure for which
there is an active and current building permit;
      2.   The sewer shall be capped in a manner approved by the building
official so as to prevent the accumulation of methane gas in the building or
structure;
      3.   The interior of the building or structure shall be cleaned of all
trash, junk, garbage, debris, and solid wastes, and personal possessions shall
be removed from the interior of the building or structure, so as to eliminate
any fire or health hazard and prevent hindrance to firefighting equipment or
personnel in the event of a fire. (Ord. 803-14, 5-20-2014)
3-4.3-13: ABATEMENT PROCEDURE - NOTICE OF VIOLATION:
   (A)   Whenever the building official has inspected or caused to be inspected
any property and has found and determined that such property is in violation of
this chapter, the building official shall commence proceedings to cause
abatement of the nuisance as provided in this section.
   (B)   Upon determining that property located in the City of Taft is
improperly secured or boarded or secured without a boarding permit obtained
through the Building Department is in violation of this chapter, the building
official shall issue a notice of violation directed to the owner of the
property. The notice shall contain:
      1.   The street address and such other description as is required to
identify the property;
      2.   A statement which specifies the conditions which constitute the
violation;
      3.   An order that the owner obtain a boarding permit from the Building
Department and properly board the property or, as appropriate, secure the
openings in the building or structure by the conventional method used in the
original construction and design of the building or structure within a
specified time period, not to exceed thirty (30) days;
      4.   A statement that, if the conditions which constitute the violation
are not abated by the owner within the time specified, the City shall have the
right to abate such conditions by properly securing the property and issuing a
boarding permit in the owner's name, with the cost of the boarding and the
permit fee to be assessed against the owner or the property; and
      5.   A statement that the owner has the right to request a hearing, and
that such request must be made in writing and must be made within the time
period within which the owner has been ordered to abate the violation.
   (C)   The written notice shall be served upon the owner of the property at
least five (5) days before the abatement deadline date specified in the notice.
The written notice shall be served either by personal delivery upon the record
owner or by mailing a copy to the record owner by first class mail at the
owner's last known address as it appears on the latest equalized assessment
roll of the county.
   (D)   After the written notice has been served, it shall be the duty of the
owner to abate such violation within the time specified by the notice. (Ord.
803-14, 5-20-2014; amd. Ord. 852-23, 7-18-2023)
3-4.3-14: APPEAL PROCEDURE:
   (A)   The owner of property may request an appeal of any notice of
violation. The form of the appeal, timing for the hearing, the notice of the
hearing and the procedures of the hearing, shall be conducted as provided in
sections
3-4-14 and
3-4-15. However, in those sections where reference is made to the existence of
a nuisance, for purposes of this section, the references should be understood
as referring to the existence of a violation.
   (B)   Based upon the evidence submitted for the appeal, the hearing officer
shall determine whether there was the existence of a violation, existence of
grounds for denying, revoking, or not renewing a boarding permit, as the case
may be. As soon as is practicable following the close of such hearing, and no
later than fourteen (14) business days following the close of the hearing
unless cause exists therefor, the hearing officer shall render a written
decision on the matter including the basis for the decision based on the
evidence provided and any directives. The hearing officer shall promptly give
written notice to the person requesting the hearing and to the owner(s) and any
other interested person who requests, in writing, with a copy of the decision
by first class mail, unless otherwise agreed to for email or other service
method. The decision issued by the hearing officer shall be deemed a final
order and may be judicially reviewed pursuant to California Code of Civil
Procedure section 1094.6. (Ord. 803-14, 5-20-2014; amd. Ord. 852-23, 7-18-2023)
3-4.3-15: ABATEMENT BY CITY:
   (A)   In the event the violation is not abated within the time specified in
the notice of violation or, if a hearing is held, within the time specified in
the hearing decision, the City may take all necessary action to abate such
violation, including the proper boarding of the property and the issuance of a
boarding permit in the name of the owner. In addition to incurring penalties as
provided in this chapter, the owner shall become personally indebted to the
City of Taft for the costs of the boarding, the boarding permit fee, and the
reasonable administrative costs of abatement and enforcement and other
allowable costs and fees incurred by the City by reason of the existence of the
violation. These costs are recoverable as provided and subject to the processes
specified in sections
3-4-19 through
3-4-21.
   (B)   After the City has boarded the property and issued a boarding permit
in the name of the owner, pursuant to the terms of subsection (A) of this
section, the building official shall cause a notice to be sent to the owner of
the subject property advising the owner of the abatement action by the City.
The notice shall also inform the owner that the boarding permit shall remain
effective for six (6) months, after which the windows, doors and other openings
to the building or structure on the subject property must be secured by the
conventional method used in the original construction and design of the
building or structure within a specified time period. The notice shall also
inform the owner that it is his/her responsibility to maintain the boarding in
a condition which complies with this chapter. The notice shall be sent to the
owner by first class mail at the owner's last known address as it appears on
the latest equalized assessment roll of the county. (Ord. 803-14, 5-20-2014;
amd. Ord. 852-23, 7-18-2023)
3-4.3-16: ASSESSMENT OF COSTS OF ABATEMENT:
The building official shall keep an itemized account of all costs incurred by
the City in abating violations under this chapter. These costs are recoverable
as provided by and subject to the processes specified in sections
3-4-19 through
3-4-21. (Ord. 803-14, 5-20-2014; amd. Ord. 852-23, 7-18-2023)
3-4.3-17: EMERGENCY ABATEMENT:
   (A)   If, in the opinion of the building official, there exists a condition
on any property which is of such a nature as to be imminently dangerous to the
public health, safety or welfare, which, if not abated, would, during the
pendency of the abatement procedures set forth in this chapter, subject any
persons or property to imminent threat, hazard, or danger, the building
official, without observing the procedures set forth in this chapter may cause
the abatement of the condition in such manner as the building official
determines is reasonably required. If the building official deems it feasible,
the building official shall attempt to give the owner and any occupants verbal
notice of the existence of the condition, and the proposed timing and method of
abatement thereof. The building official shall, forthwith, report such
circumstances to the City Council. The City shall notify in writing the owner
of the property upon which the condition was located, the place or area upon
which the condition was abated by the City, and the cost of the abatement. Such
notification shall be given in the same manner described in subsection
1-3-4(C) for service of administrative citations and conspicuously posted on
the property containing the abated condition. The City may recover the costs of
abatement as set forth in this chapter. The City may seek a civil abatement
warrant through a court of competent jurisdiction.
   (B)   The city attorney's office or its authorized representative may have
the opportunity to review and advise regarding the undertaking of any summary
abatement, prior to the commencement of any summary abatement.
   (C)   The cost of summary abatement including all administrative costs of
any action taken under this chapter may be assessed against the subject
property as a lien or made a personal obligation of the owner as provided in
this chapter. (Ord. 803-14, 5-20-2014; amd. Ord. 852-23, 7-18-2023)
3-4.3-18: JUDICIAL AND OTHER REMEDIES:
All judicial and other remedies provided for in section
3-4-23 apply to this chapter, unless otherwise prohibited by law. (Ord. 852-23,
7-18-2023)
CHAPTER 5
ABATEMENT OF WEEDS AND DEBRIS
SECTION:
3-5-1: Weeds Constituting A Public Nuisance
3-5-2: Waste Material Constituting A Public Nuisance
3-5-3: Means Of Abatement
3-5-4: Duty Of The Property Owner To Abate
3-5-5: Notice To Abate; Generally
3-5-6: Notice To Abate; Form
3-5-7: Notice To Abate; Mailing And Posting
3-5-8: Abatement By Owner; Approval Required To Burn Weeds Or Waste Material
3-5-9: Costs Of Abatement; Accounting And City Recovery
3-5-10: Contesting Notice To Abate; Administrative Hearing Procedures; Decision
3-5-11: Abatement After Hearing Decision Or Failure To Request Hearing Or Other
Waiver Of Contest To Notice To Abate
3-5-12: Emergency Abatement
3-5-13: Cumulative Remedies, Procedures And Penalties
3-5-14: Judicial And Other Remedies
3-5-1: WEEDS CONSTITUTING A PUBLIC NUISANCE:
   (A)   All weeds which are described in this section growing upon any private
property or in any public street, sidewalk, parkway, or alley within the City,
are declared to be a public nuisance, which nuisance shall be abated as
provided in this chapter.
   (B)   The term "weeds" shall include:
      1.   Weeds which bear seeds of a downy or wingy nature;
      2.   Sagebrush and any other brush or weeds which attain such large
growth as to become, when dry, a fire menace to adjacent improved property;
      3.   Weeds which are otherwise noxious or dangerous; and
      4.   Dry grasses, stubble, brush, dead shrubs, dead trees, litter, or
other flammable material which endangers the public safety by creating a fire
hazard. (Ord. 511, 9-3-1985; amd. Ord. 852-23, 7-18-2023)
3-5-2: WASTE MATERIAL CONSTITUTING A PUBLIC NUISANCE:
   (A)   Waste material" is unused or discarded material having no substantial
market value, which is exposed to the elements and is not enclosed in any
structure or otherwise concealed from public view, and which consists, without
limitation or exclusion by enumeration, or such matter and material as:
      1.   Rubble, asphalt, concrete, plaster, tile;
      2.   Rubbish, crates, cartons, metal, and glass containers.
   (B)   Waste material which, by reason of its location and character, is
unsightly and interferes with the reasonable enjoyment of property by neighbors
or would materially hamper or interfere with the suppression or prevention of a
fire upon the premises, or the abatement of a nuisance as defined by section
3-5-1 is also a public nuisance. (Ord. 511, 9-3-1985; amd. Ord. 852-23, 7-18-
2023)
3-5-3: MEANS OF ABATEMENT:
The abatement of each nuisance described in this chapter shall be accomplished
by complete removal of all weeds and waste material to which reference is made
in sections
3-5-1 and
3-5-2 of this chapter. The enforcement officer, as defined in section
1-3-3 at his discretion, at his discretion may determine and direct the method
and manner of abatement of the nuisance. (Ord. 511, 9-3-1985; amd. Ord. 852-23,
7-18-2023)
3-5-4: DUTY OF THE PROPERTY OWNER TO ABATE:
It shall be the duty of every property owner to abate any public nuisance as
described in this chapter upon his private property and upon the abutting half
of the street and/or alley, and between the sidelines thereof as extended. The
word "street" as used in this section shall be deemed to include the sidewalk
and parkway space thereof. (Ord. 511, 9-3-1985; amd. Ord. 852-23, 7-18-2023)
3-5-5: NOTICE TO ABATE; GENERALLY:
Whenever any such weeds or waste material are growing or existing upon any
private property or on the abutting half of any street, sidewalk space, and/or
alley within the City, it shall be the duty of the enforcement officer to
notify the owner of the property upon which the nuisance exists, and inform the
owner that unless the nuisance is abated without delay, the work of abating
such nuisance will be done by the City, and the expense thereof assessed upon
the abated lots and lands. (Ord. 511, 9-3-1985; amd. Ord. 852-23, 7-18-2023)
3-5-6: NOTICE TO ABATE; FORM:
The notice to be sent by the enforcement officer shall be substantially in the
following form:
      NOTICE TO CLEAN PREMISES
      NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN, under the provisions of title III, chapter 5 of
the City of Taft Code that weeds, grasses, dead shrubs and dead trees upon
property owned by you and/or on the abutting half of the street, sidewalk space
and/or alley, in the City of Taft are a public nuisance in that they are a fire
hazard and any rubble, discarded asphalt and concrete and other waste material
thereon that might interfere with the abatement of the aforementioned public
nuisance, are also a public nuisance.
      YOU ARE HEREBY NOTIFIED that said public nuisances are required to be
abated within ten (10) days from the date of this notice. If not abated by
destruction and removal on or before such time, the City of Taft will abate the
public nuisance or cause the same to be abated, in which case the costs thereof
will be assessed against the land via lien or special assessment as provided in
title III, chapter 5 of the Taft City Code.
      YOU ARE FURTHER NOTIFIED that you may request a hearing to show cause, if
any, why said nuisance should not be found to exist and the same ordered
abated.
      DATED:__________________________
      _________________________________
      Enforcement officer of the City of Taft
(Ord. 511, 9-3-1985; amd. Ord. 852-23, 7-18-2023)
3-5-7: NOTICE TO ABATE; MAILING AND POSTING:
   (A)   The enforcement officer shall mail a copy of the notice to abate to
each and every owner of real property on which and/or on the abutting half of
the street, sidewalk space and/or alley on which such a nuisance exists, whose
name and address appears on the latest equalized county assessment roll, or as
known to the enforcement officer, mailing the copies of notices to the
addresses given or as otherwise known to him.
   (B)   If the name and address of such owner does not appear on such
assessment roll or is not otherwise known to him, he shall cause a copy of such
notice to be conspicuously posted on the property affected.
   (C)   The failure of any property owner to receive such notice shall not
deprive the City to proceed, or affect in any manner the validity of the
proceedings taken or to be taken to abate the nuisance or any assessment of
costs for the abatement levied under this chapter. (Ord. 511, 9-3-1985; amd.
Ord. 852-23, 7-18-2023)
3-5-8: ABATEMENT BY OWNER; APPROVAL REQUIRED TO BURN WEEDS OR WASTE MATERIAL:
   (A)   Any owner of real property on which or in front, side and/or rear of
which such public nuisance exists, may cause the same to be abated, providing
it is done prior to the arrival of the enforcement officer or the entering of a
contract by the enforcement officer to do the work; provided in all cases the
work shall be done to the satisfaction of the enforcement officer.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any property owner or other person to burn, or
attempt to burn, any such weeds or waste material without first obtaining
written permission, permit, or other approval to do so from the City, Kern
County Fire Department, or other governing jurisdiction and showing
satisfactory evidence of said permission to the City. (Ord. 852-23, 7-18-2023)
3-5-9: COSTS OF ABATEMENT; ACCOUNTING AND CITY RECOVERY:
   (A)   When the work is done or caused to be done by the enforcement officer,
he shall keep an account of the cost of abating such nuisances, including any
administrative charge set by resolution of the City Council and apportioned by
the enforcement officer as the case may be, upon any separate lot or parcel of
land and in front and alley, if any, in the rear thereof between the sidelines
of such lot as extended. The accounting shall refer to each separate lot or
parcel of land by a description sufficient to identify it, and state separately
the cost of abating the nuisance upon each parcel of land, including the
apportioned administrative charge.
   (B)   All costs of abatement shall be recovered in accordance with sections
3-4-19 through
3-4-21, including the scope of costs recoverable by the City, the statement of
the costs of abatement to be provided to the responsible parties, hearing
rights to contest the reasonableness of the costs incurred by the City for
abatement, and lien and special assessment procedure. (Ord. 852-23, 7-18-2023)
3-5-10: CONTESTING NOTICE TO ABATE; ADMINISTRATIVE HEARING PROCEDURES;
DECISION:
Any owner of property issued a notice to abate under this chapter, may request
a hearing to show cause why said nuisance should not be found to exist and the
same ordered abated. Such request must be made within ten (10) days of the date
of the notice to abate. All other processes for the hearing, including how to
submit a request for a hearing, the notice for the hearing, procedures for the
hearing, and decision for the hearing, shall be as provided in sections
3-4-14 and
3-4-16. (Ord. 852-23, 7-18-2023)
3-5-11: ABATEMENT AFTER HEARING DECISION OR FAILURE TO REQUEST HEARING OR OTHER
WAIVER OF CONTEST TO NOTICE TO ABATE:
At no cost to the City, the owner shall comply with all of the provisions of
any final abatement order. If such persons fail, for any reason, to comply with
a final abatement order within the time required in the order, the city
manager, or his or her designee, may cause the nuisance described in the
abatement order to be abated by City forces or by private contractor. The City
is authorized to take such action as needed to gain entry upon the property
where the violations of law exists for purposes of abating those violations.
The City may seek a civil abatement warrant through a court of competent
jurisdiction. (Ord. 852-23, 7-18-2023)
3-5-12: EMERGENCY ABATEMENT:
Notwithstanding any other provision of this code, whenever the enforcement
officer determines that a nuisance, as defined in this chapter, or in any other
applicable law, exists, and that such nuisance constitutes an immediate threat,
hazard or danger to persons or property, the enforcement officer without
observing the procedures set forth in this chapter with reference to nuisance
abatement, may forthwith immediately cause the abatement of such nuisance in
such manner as the enforcement officer determines is reasonably required. If
the enforcement officer deems it feasible, the enforcement officer shall
attempt to give the owner and any occupants verbal notice of the existence of
the nuisance, and the proposed timing and method of abatement thereof. The code
enforcement officer shall, forthwith, report such circumstances to the City
Council. The City shall notify in writing the owner of the property upon which
the nuisance was located, the place or area upon which the nuisance was abated
by the City, and the cost of the abatement. Such notification shall be given in
the same manner described in subsection
1-3-4(C) for service of administrative citations and conspicuously posted on
the property containing the abated nuisance. The City may recover the costs of
abatement as set forth in this chapter. The City may seek a civil abatement
warrant through a court of competent jurisdiction. (Ord. 852-23, 7-18-2023)
3-5-13: CUMULATIVE REMEDIES, PROCEDURES AND PENALTIES:
Unless otherwise expressly provided, the remedies, procedures and penalties
provided by this chapter are cumulative to each other and to any others
available under state law or other city ordinances. (Ord. 852-23, 7-18-2023)
3-5-14: JUDICIAL AND OTHER REMEDIES:
All judicial and other remedies provided for in section
3-4-23 apply to this chapter, unless otherwise prohibited by law. (Ord. 852-23,
7-18-2023)
CHAPTER 6
ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE WARNING SIGNS
SECTION:
3-6-1: Duty To Post Signs Or Notices
3-6-2: Placement Of Notice
3-6-3: Language
3-6-4: Enforcement
3-6-1: DUTY TO POST SIGNS OR NOTICES:
Any person or entity who owns, operates, manages, leases or rents a premises
offering wine, beer or other alcoholic beverages for sale or dispensing for
consideration to the public, shall cause a sign or notice to be posted on the
premises as provided in this Chapter. The sign or notice shall read as follows:
   WARNING, DRINKING ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES,
   INCLUDING BEER AND WINE, DURING PREGNANCY
   CAN CAUSE BIRTH DEFECTS.
It shall also contain the telephone number of the County Department to call for
more information.
The sign or notice as required herein shall not be smaller than ten inches wide
by ten inches (10" x 10"), nor shall the lettering for the required wording be
less than one inch (1") in height. (Ord. 551, 3-1-1988)
3-6-2: PLACEMENT OF NOTICE:
The required sign or notice shall be placed as follows:
   (A)   Where the sale or dispensing of wine, beer or other alcoholic beverage
to the public is primarily intended for consumption off the premises, at least
one sign shall be so placed as to assure that it is conspicuously displayed so
as to be readable from all locations at which said sale or dispensing occurs.
   (B)   Where the sale of wine, beer or other alcoholic beverages to the
public is primarily provided through over the counter service at least one sign
shall be placed to assure that it is readable from all counter locations
available to the public.
   (C)   Where the sale or dispensing of wine, beer or other alcoholic
beverages to the public is primarily provided for consumption on the premises
at tables served by food or beverage service persons, at least one sign shall
be placed to assure that it is conspicuously displayed so as to be readable in
each public restroom. (Ord. 551, 3-1-1988)
3-6-3: LANGUAGE:
In the event a substantial number of the public patronizing a premises offering
for sale or dispensing wine, beer or other alcoholic beverages, uses one
language other than English as a primary language, any sign or notice required
by Section
3-6-1 above shall be worded in both English and the primary language or
languages involved. (Ord. 551, 3-1-1988)
3-6-4: ENFORCEMENT:
   (A)   Primary enforcement of the provisions of this Chapter will be with the
Kern County Health Department.
   (B)   Anyone subject to the provisions of Section
3-6-1 above who fails to post the required warning is guilty of an infraction.
(Ord. 551, 3-1-1988)
CHAPTER 7
REGULATION OF PSYCHOACTIVE BATH SALTS, PSYCHOACTIVE HERBAL INCENSE,
AND OTHER SYNTHETIC DRUGS
SECTION:
3-7-1: Purpose And Intent
3-7-2: Definitions
3-7-3: Provision, Display For Sale, Sale Or Distribution Of Synthetic Drugs
Prohibited
3-7-4: Provision, Display For Sale, Sale Or Distribution Of Substances Claimed
Or Represented To Be Synthetic Drugs Prohibited
3-7-5: Possession Of Synthetic Drugs Prohibited
3-7-6: Public Nuisance
3-7-7: Emergency Abatement
3-7-8: Revocation Of Business License
3-7-9: Penalties
3-7-10: Seizure Of Evidence
3-7-11: Exclusions
3-7-12: County Regulations Adopted
3-7-1: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
Recreational or other use of psychoactive bath salts, psychoactive herbal
incense and similar products commonly known as "synthetic drugs" has been
documented to cause hallucinations, agitation, psychosis, aggression, suicidal
and homicidal thoughts, and death. While state and federal laws and regulations
prohibit some synthetic drugs, the makers of these drugs continually alter the
composition of the compounds in their products so as to escape the purview of
these laws and regulations. The purpose and intent of this chapter is to
provide the city of Taft with reasonable measure to address the dangers to the
community posed by synthetic drugs that are not regulated by state or federal
law. (Ord. 808-15, 2-17-2015)
3-7-2: DEFINITIONS:
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning:
BUSINESS: Any commercial enterprise subject to requirements that a business
license be obtained from the city of Taft.
CONSUME, CONSUMING OR CONSUMPTION: To ingest, inhale, inject, smoke or snort
(insufflate).
DISTRIBUTE, DISTRIBUTING OR DISTRIBUTION: To furnish, give away, exchange,
transfer, deliver or supply, whether or not for monetary gain.
PERSON: Includes any natural person, business, firm, company, corporation,
public corporation, club, trust, partnership, association or similar
organization.
POSSESS, POSSESSING OR POSSESSION: To have for consumption, distribution, or
sale in one's actual or constructive custody or control, or under one's
authority or power, whether such custody, control, authority or power be
exercised solely or jointly with others.
PROVIDE, PROVIDING OR PROVISION: Offering to distribute or sell a product or
substance to any person, whether or not for monetary gain.
PSYCHOACTIVE BATH SALTS: Any crystalline or powder product that contains a
synthetic chemical compound that, when consumed, elicits psychoactive or
psychotropic stimulant effects. The term psychoactive bath salts includes,
without limitation:
   (A)   Products that elicit psychoactive or psychotropic stimulant effects
and contain any of the following intoxicating chemical compounds:
      1.   Cathinone (2-amino-1-phenyl-1-propanone), 4- methylmethcathinone (2-
methylamino-1-(4- methylphenyl)propan-1-one), 4-methoxymethcathinone (1-(4-
methoxyphyenyl)-2-(methylamino)propan-1- one), MDPV
(methylenedioxypyrovalerone), MDMA (3, 4-methylenedioxy-N-methylamphetamine),
methylene (3,4-methylenedioxy-N-methylcathinone), methcathinone (2-
(methylamino)-1-phenyl-propan-1- one), flephedrone (4-fluoromethcathinone), 3-
FMC (3-fluoromethcathinone), ethcathinone (2- ethylamino-1-phenyl-propan-1-
one), butylone (13- keto-N-methylbenzodioxolylbutanamine), a-PPP (a-
pyrrolidinopropiophenone), MPPP (4'-methyl-a- pyrrolidinopropiophenone), MDPPP
(3',4'- methylenedioxy-a-pyrrolidinoprio-piophenone), a- PVP (1-phenyl-2-(1-
pyrrolidinyl)-1-pentanone) or naphyrone (1-naphthalen-2-yl-2-pyrrolidin-1-
ylpentan-1-one);
      2.   Any derivative of the above listed intoxicating chemical compounds;
      3.   Any synthetic substance and its isomers with a chemical structure
similar to the above listed compounds;
      4.   Any chemical alteration of the above listed intoxicating chemical
compounds; or
      5.   Any other substantially similar chemical structure or compound; and
   (B)   Products that elicit psychoactive or psychotropic stimulant effects
and are marketed under any of the following trade names: Bliss, Blizzard, Blue
Silk, Bonzai Grow, Charge Plus, Charlie, Cloud Nine, Euphoria, Hurricane, Ivory
Snow, Ivory Wave, Lunar Wave, Ocean, Ocean Burst, Pixie Dust, Posh, Pure Ivory,
Purple Wave, Red Dove, Scarface, Snow Leopard, Stardust, Vanilla Sky, White
Dove, White Night and White Lightning. This list of names is not all inclusive
and is intended only as a guide which is contemporaneous with passage of this
chapter. It is in no way intended to limit enforcement of these provisions to
the trade names listed herein.
   (C)   The term psychoactive bath salts shall not include any product,
substance, material, compound, mixture or preparation that is specifically
excepted by the California uniform controlled substances act 1 ("UCSA"), listed
in one of the UCSA's schedules of controlled substances 2 , regulated by one of
the UCSA's synthetic drug laws 3 , regulated by the federal controlled
substances act (the "CSA") (21 USC section 81 et seq.) or approved by the food
and drug administration ("FDA").
PSYCHOACTIVE HERBAL INCENSE: Any organic product consisting of plant material
that contains a synthetic stimulant compound that, when consumed, elicits
psychoactive or psychotropic euphoric effects. The term psychoactive herbal
incense includes, without limitation:
   (A)   Products that elicit psychoactive or psychotropic euphoric effects and
contain any of the following chemical compounds:
      1.   Cannabicyclohexanol (2-[(1R,3S)-3- hydroxycyclohexyl]-5-(2-
methylnonan-2-yl)phenol), JWH-018 (naphthalene-1-yl-(1-pentylindol-3-
yl)methanone), JWH-073 (napththalen-1-yl-(1- butylindol-3-yl)methanone), JWH-
200 ((1-(2- morpholin-4-ylethyl)indol-2-yl)-naphthalen-1- ylmethanone), HU-210
((6aR,1OaR)-9- (hydroxymethyl)-6,6-dimethyl-3-(2-methyloctan-2- yl)-
6a,7,10,1Oa-tetrahydrobenzo [c]chromen-1-ol), CP 47, 497 (2-[(1R,3S)-3-
hydroxycyclohexyl]-5-(2- methyloctan-2-yl)phenol) CP 47,497 (2-[1R,3S)-3-
hydroxycyclohexyl]-5-(2-methyloctan-2-yl)phenol) or AM-2201 (1-[(5-
fluoropentyl)-1H-indol-3-yl]- (nap-thalen-1-yl)methanone);
      2.   Any derivative of the above listed intoxicating chemical compounds;
      3.   Any synthetic substance and its isomers with a chemical structure
similar to the above listed intoxicating chemical compounds;
      4.   Any chemical alteration of the above listed intoxicating chemical
compounds; or
      5.   Any other substantially similar chemical structure or compound; and
   (B)   Products that elicit psychoactive or psychotropic euphoric effects and
are marketed under any of the following names: K2, K3, Spice, Genie, Smoke,
Potpourri, Buzz, Spice 99, Voodoo, Pulse, Hush, Mystery, Earthquake, Stinger,
Ocean Blue, Serenity, Fake Weed and Black Mamba. This list of names is not all
inclusive and is intended only as a guide which is contemporaneous with passage
of this chapter. It is in no way intended to limit enforcement of these
provisions to the trade names listed herein.
   (C)   The term psychoactive herbal incense shall not include any product,
substance, material, compound, mixture, or preparation that is psychoactive
herbal incense, and other synthetic drugs specifically excepted by the UCSA 1 ,
listed in one of the UCSA's schedules of controlled substances 2 regulated by
one of the UCSA's synthetic drug laws 3 , regulated by the CSA (21 USC section
81 et seq.) or approved by the FDA.
PSYCHOACTIVE OR PSYCHOTROPIC EUPHORIC EFFECTS: Affecting the central nervous
system or brain function to change perception, mood, consciousness, cognition
or behavior in ways that are similar to the effects of cannabis.
PSYCHOACTIVE OR PSYCHOTROPIC STIMULANT EFFECTS: Affecting the central nervous
system or brain function to change perception, mood, consciousness, cognition
or behavior in ways that are similar to the effects of cocaine, methylphenidate
or amphetamines.
SELL, SELLING OR SALE: To furnish, exchange, transfer, deliver or supply for
monetary gain.
SYNTHETIC DRUG: Includes "psychoactive bath salts" and "psychoactive herbal
incense", as those terms are defined herein. (Ord. 808-15, 2-17-2015)
 
Notes
1 1. HSC § 11000 et seq.
2 2. HSC §§ 11053 - 11058.
3 3. HSC §§ 11357.5, 11375.5, 11401.
1 1. HSC § 11000 et seq.
2 2. HSC §§ 11053 - 11058.
3 3. HSC §§ 11357.5, 11375.5, 11401.
3-7-3: PROVISION, DISPLAY FOR SALE, SALE OR DISTRIBUTION OF SYNTHETIC DRUGS
PROHIBITED:
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to provide, display for sale, distribute
or sell any synthetic drug within the city of Taft.
   (B)   Including a disclaimer in any form or in any location that a synthetic
drug is "not safe for human consumption", or any similar disclaimer, will not
avoid the application of this section. (Ord. 808-15, 2-17-2015)
3-7-4: PROVISION, DISPLAY FOR SALE, SALE OR DISTRIBUTION OF SUBSTANCES CLAIMED
OR REPRESENTED TO BE SYNTHETIC DRUGS PROHIBITED:
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to claim or represent that a product
that person is providing, displaying for sale, distributing or selling is a
synthetic drug within the city of Taft.
   (B)   To determine if a person is claiming or representing that a product is
a synthetic drug, the enforcing officer may consider any of the following
evidentiary factors:
      1.   The product is not suitable for its marketed use (such as a
crystalline or powder product being marketed as "glass cleaner");
      2.   The business providing, displaying for sale, distributing or selling
the product does not typically provide, distribute or sell products that are
used for that product's marketed use (such as a liquor store selling "plant
food");
      3.   The product contains a warning label that is not typically present
on products that are used for that product's marketed use (such as "not for
human consumption", "not for purchase by minors", or "does not contain
chemicals banned by Health And Safety Code section 11357.5");
      4.   The product is significantly more expensive than products that are
used for that product's marketed use (such as half of a gram of a substance
marketed as "glass cleaner" costing $50.00);
      5.   The product resembles an illicit street drug (such as cocaine,
methamphetamine or marijuana); or
      6.   The product's name or packaging uses images or slang referencing an
illicit street drug (such as "Eight Ballz" or "Green Buddha").
   (C)   Including a disclaimer in any form or in any location that a synthetic
drug is "not safe for human consumption", or any similar disclaimer, will not
avoid the application of this section. (Ord. 808-15, 2-17-2015)
3-7-5: POSSESSION OF SYNTHETIC DRUGS PROHIBITED:
It is unlawful for any person to possess any synthetic drug within the city of
Taft. (Ord. 808-15, 2-17-2015)
3-7-6: PUBLIC NUISANCE:
   (A)   It is a public nuisance for any person to provide, display for sale,
distribute or sell any synthetic drug within the city of Taft.
   (B)   It is a public nuisance for any person to allow the provision, display
for sale, distribution or sale of any synthetic drug on property owned,
controlled or managed by such person within the city of Taft.
   (C)   It is a public nuisance for any person to provide, display for sale,
distribute or sell any substance claimed or represented to be a synthetic drug
within the city of Taft.
   (D)   It is a public nuisance for any person to allow the provision, display
for sale, distribution or sale of any substance claimed or represented to be a
synthetic drug on property owned, controlled or managed by such person within
the city of Taft.
   (E)   To determine if a person is claiming or representing that a substance
or product is a synthetic drug, the enforcing officer may consider any of the
evidentiary factors set forth in section
3-7-4 of this chapter. (Ord. 808-15, 2-17-2015)
3-7-7: EMERGENCY ABATEMENT:
Because the use of synthetic drugs has been documented to cause hallucinations,
agitation, psychosis, aggression, suicidal and homicidal thoughts, and death,
any violation of this chapter presents an immediate threat and grave and
imminent danger not only to the person consuming the synthetic drug, but also
to the public at large. If the code compliance officer, city manager, or other
designated official, based on the facts then known, determines that a violation
of this chapter presents an immediate threat, imminent danger or hazard or is
imminently injurious to the public health or safety, then that violation is
punishable by the emergency abatement procedures set forth in section
3-4-11 of this title. (Ord. 808-15, 2-17-2015)
3-7-8: REVOCATION OF BUSINESS LICENSE:
No person holding a city business license and owning or operating a business in
the city of Taft may use that business to provide, distribute or sell any
synthetic drug or any substance claimed or represented to be a synthetic drug.
Along with other applicable penalties, a violation of this section by the
holder of a city of Taft business license, or their employees or agents, shall
constitute grounds for immediate modification, suspension, revocation, or any
combination thereof, of said license. (Ord. 808-15, 2-17-2015)
3-7-9: PENALTIES:
Established by resolution of the city of Taft city council.
   (A)   Misdemeanor Violation: Failure to comply with any of the requirements
of this chapter is a misdemeanor punishable by imprisonment in the city or
county jail for a period not exceeding six (6) months or by fine not exceeding
one thousand dollars ($1,000.00), or by both, provided that where the city
attorney determines that such action would be in the interest of justice, he or
she may specify in the accusatory pleading that the offense shall be an
infraction.
   (B)   Infraction Violation: Where the city attorney determines that, in the
interest of justice, a violation of this chapter is an infraction, such
infraction is punishable by a fine not exceeding one hundred dollars ($100.00)
for a first violation, a fine not exceeding two hundred dollars ($200.00) for a
second violation of the same provision within one year, and a fine not
exceeding five hundred dollars ($500.00) for each additional infraction
violation of the same provision within one year. An infraction is not
punishable by imprisonment. A person charged with an infraction shall not be
entitled to a trial by jury and shall not be entitled to have the public
defender or other counsel appointed at public expense to represent him or her,
unless he or she is arrested and not released on his or her written promise to
appear, his or her own recognizance or a deposit of bail. However, any person
who has previously been convicted two (2) or more times during any twelve (12)
month period for any violation of this chapter for a crime made punishable as
an infraction shall be charged with a misdemeanor upon the third violation.
   (C)   Fines Set By Resolution: The fine amounts set forth above may be
modified, from time to time, by city council resolution. In no event shall such
fine amounts exceed the amounts authorized by state law. (Ord. 808-15, 2-17-
2015)
3-7-10: SEIZURE OF EVIDENCE:
Any product(s) or substance(s) possessed, provided, distributed or sold in
violation of any provision of this chapter shall be seized by the enforcing
officers and removed, stored and disposed of in accordance with law. (Ord. 808-
15, 2-17-2015)
3-7-11: EXCLUSIONS:
   (A)   This chapter shall not apply to drugs or substances lawfully
prescribed or to intoxicating chemical compounds that have been approved by the
federal food and drug administration or which are specifically permitted by
California law, including, without limitation, intoxicating chemical compounds
that are specifically excepted by the California uniform controlled substances
act 1 .
   (B)   This chapter shall not apply to drugs or substances that are
prohibited by state or federal law, including, without limitation, California
Health And Safety Code sections 11357.5, 11375.5, and 11401 and the federal
controlled substances act.
   (C)   This chapter shall not be deemed to prescribe any act that is
positively permitted, prohibited or preempted by any state or federal law or
regulation. (Ord. 808-15, 2-17-2015)
 
Notes
1 1. HSC § 11000 et seq.
3-7-12: COUNTY REGULATIONS ADOPTED:
   (A)   Intent: Recreational or other use of psychoactive bath salts,
psychoactive herbal incense (commonly referred to as "spice" or "synthetic
marijuana") and similar products commonly known as "synthetic drugs", has been
documented to cause hallucinations, agitation, psychosis, aggression, suicidal
and homicidal thoughts, and death. While state and federal laws and regulations
prohibit some synthetic drugs, the makers of these drugs continually alter the
composition of the compounds in their products so as to escape the purview of
such laws and regulations. The purpose and intent of this chapter is to protect
the public health and safety within the county of Kern from the dangers and ill
effects of all synthetic drugs by declaring certain activities involving
synthetic drugs to be a public nuisance and subject to all available civil
remedies and, to provide the county of Kern with reasonable measures to address
the dangers to the community posed by synthetic drugs that are not regulated by
state or federal law.
   (B)   Incorporation By Reference: Pursuant to Government Code section
50022.1 et seq., ordinance G-8602 of the board of supervisors of the county of
Kern, state of California which adds chapter 9.44 to title 9 of the Kern County
ordinance code concerning psychoactive bath salts, psychoactive herbal incense
(spice) and other synthetic drugs and each and every term, provision, rule, and
regulation therein is hereby incorporated by this reference as if fully set
forth herein verbatim. Provided, however, that all references to
"unincorporated areas of the county of Kern" are hereby replaced with "the
county of Kern" and this section shall apply within the city's boundaries.
   (C)   Environmental Quality Act: This section is exempt from the
requirements of the California environmental quality act (CEQA) pursuant to
section 15061(b)(3) of the CEQA guidelines and is not a project which has the
potential for causing a significant effect on the environment.
   (D)   Severability: If any subsection, sentence, clause or phrase of this
section is for any reason held to be unconstitutional, such decision shall not
affect the validity of the remaining subsections of this section. The city
council of the city of Taft hereby declares that it would have passed this
section, and each subsection, clause and phrase thereof, irrespective of the
fact that any one or more subsections, sentences, clauses or phrases be
declared invalid or unconstitutional.
   (E)   Effective Date; Publication: This section shall take effect thirty
(30) days after the date of its adoption, and within fifteen (15) days after
its adoption shall be published at least once in the "Daily Midway Driller", a
newspaper of general circulation, published and circulated in the city of Taft
together with the names of members of the city council voting for and against
same.
   (F)   Supplement: This section and all its subsections, shall supplement
sections
3-7-1 through
3-7-11 of this chapter, and shall neither override nor contradict any part of
this chapter. (Ord. 819-16, 8-2-2016)
CHAPTER 8
TOBACCO RETAILER'S PERMIT
SECTION:
3-8-1: Intent
3-8-2: Incorporation By Reference
3-8-3: Environmental Quality Act
3-8-4: Severability
3-8-5: Effective Date; Publication
3-8-1: INTENT:
The purpose of this chapter is to prohibit any person from acting as a tobacco
retailer without first obtaining and maintaining a valid tobacco retailer's
permit and to set forth the terms and conditions of obtaining the permit. (Ord.
821-16, 8-16-2016)
3-8-2: INCORPORATION BY REFERENCE:
Pursuant to Government Code section 50022.1 et seq., ordinances G-7724, G-8006,
G-8495, and G-8586 of the board of supervisors of the county of Kern, state of
California which amended chapter 8.60 of title 8 of the Kern County ordinance
code regarding tobacco retailer's permits and each and every term, provision,
rule, and regulation therein is hereby incorporated by this reference as if
fully set forth herein verbatim, except those portions which would prohibit
anyone under the age of twenty one (21) from retailing tobacco products. It is
the express intent of the city of Taft to preserve employment opportunities for
current and future employees under the age of twenty one (21) to sell tobacco
products if employed by a tobacco retailer. (Ord. 821-16, 8-16-2016)
3-8-3: ENVIRONMENTAL QUALITY ACT:
This chapter is exempt from the requirements of the California environmental
quality act (CEQA) pursuant to section 15061(b)(3) of the CEQA guidelines and
is not a project which has the potential for causing a significant effect on
the environment. (Ord. 821-16, 8-16-2016)
3-8-4: SEVERABILITY:
If any section, subsection, sentence, clause or phrase of this chapter is for
any reason held to be unconstitutional, such decision shall not affect the
validity of the remaining sections of this chapter. The city council of the
city of Taft hereby declares that it would have passed this chapter, and each
section, subsection, clause and phrase thereof, irrespective of the fact that
any one or more sections, subsections, sentences, clauses or phrases be
declared invalid or unconstitutional. (Ord. 821-16, 8-16-2016)
3-8-5: EFFECTIVE DATE; PUBLICATION:
This chapter shall take effect thirty (30) days after the date of its adoption,
and within fifteen (15) days after its adoption shall be published at least
once in the "Daily Midway Driller", a newspaper of general circulation,
published and circulated in the city of Taft together with the names of members
of the city council voting for and against same. (Ord. 821-16, 8-16-2016)
TITLE IV
BUSINESS REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
SALES AND USE TAX
SECTION:
4-1-1: Short Title
4-1-2: Rate
4-1-3: Operative Date
4-1-4: Purpose
4-1-5: Contract With State
4-1-6: Sales Tax
4-1-7: Place Of Sale
4-1-8: Use Tax
4-1-9: Adoption Of Provisions Of State Law
4-1-10: Limitations On Adoption Of State Law
4-1-11: Permit Not Required
4-1-12: Exclusions And Exemptions
4-1-13: Exclusions And Exemptions
4-1-14: Application Of Provisions Relating To Exclusions And Exemptions (Rep.
by Ord. 481, 1-3-1984)
4-1-15: Amendments
4-1-16: Enjoining Collection Forbidden
4-1-17: Penalties
4-1-1: SHORT TITLE:
This Ordinance shall be known as the "Uniform Local Sales and Use Tax
Ordinance". (Ord. 373, 1974)
4-1-2: RATE:
The rate of sales tax and use tax imposed by this Chapter shall be one percent
(1.00%). (Ord. 430, 2-4-1981, eff. 7-1-1981)
4-1-3: OPERATIVE RATE:
This Ordinance shall be operative on January 1, 1974. (Ord. 373, 1974)
4-1-4: PURPOSE:
The City Council hereby declares that this Ordinance is adopted to achieve the
following, among other, purposes, and directs that the provisions hereof be
interpreted in order to accomplish those purposes.
   (A)   To adopt a Sales and Use Tax Ordinance which complies with the
requirements and limitations contained in Part 1.5 of Division 2 of the Revenue
and Taxation Code;
   (B)   To adopt a Sales and Use Tax Ordinance which incorporates provisions
identical to those of the Sales and Use Tax Law of the State of California
insofar as those provisions are not consistent with the requirements and
limitations contained in Part 1.5 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation
Code;
   (C)   To adopt a Sales and Use Tax Ordinance which imposes a tax and
provides a measure therefor that can be administered and collected by the State
Board of Equalization in a manner that adopts itself as fully as practicable
to, and requires the least possible deviation from the existing statutory and
administrative procedures followed by the State Board of Equalization in
administering and collecting the California State Sales and Use Taxes;
   (D)   To adopt a Sales and Use Tax Ordinance which can be administered in a
manner that will, to the degree possible consistent with the provisions of Part
1.5 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, minimize the cost of
collecting City Sales and Use Taxes and at the same time minimize the burden of
record keeping upon persons subject to taxation under the provisions of this
Ordinance. (Ord. 373, 1974)
4-1-5: CONTRACT WITH STATE:
Prior to the operative date this City shall contract with the State Board of
Equalization to perform all functions incident to the administration and
operation of this Sales and Use Tax Ordinance; provided, that if this City
shall not have contract with the State Board of Equalization prior to the
operative date, it shall nevertheless so contract and in such a case the
operative date shall be the first day of the first calendar quarter following
the execution of such a contract rather than the first day of the first
calendar quarter following the adoption of this Ordinance. (Ord. 373, 1974)
4-1-6: SALES TAX:
For the privilege of selling tangible personal property at retail a tax is
hereby imposed upon all retailers in the City at the rate stated in Section
4-1-2 of this Chapter of the gross receipts of the retailer from the sale of
all tangible personal property sold at retail in this City on and after the
operative date. (Ord. 373, 1974)
4-1-7: PLACE OF SALE:
For the purposes of this Ordinance, all retail sales are consummated at the
place of business of the retailer unless the tangible personal property sold is
delivered by the retailer or his agent to an out of State destination or to a
common carrier for delivery to an out of State destination. The gross receipts
from such sales shall include delivery charges, when such charges are subject
to the State Sales and Use Tax, regardless of the place to which delivery is
made. In the event a retailer has no permanent place of business in the State
or has more than one place of business, the place or places at which the retail
sales are consummated shall be determined under rules and regulations to be
prescribed and adopted by the State Board of Equalization. (Ord. 373, 1974)
4-1-8: USE TAX:
An excise tax is hereby imposed on the storage, use or other consumption in
this City of tangible personal property purchased from any retailer on and
after the operative date for storage, use or other consumption in this City at
the rate stated in Section
4-1-2 of this Chapter of the sales price of the property. The sales price shall
include delivery charges when such charges are subject to State sales or use
tax regardless of the place to which delivery is made. (Ord. 373, 1974)
4-1-9: ADOPTION OF PROVISIONS OF STATE LAW:
Except as otherwise provided in this Ordinance and except insofar as they are
inconsistent with the provisions of Part 1.5 of Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code, all of the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code are hereby adopted and made a part of this Ordinance as though
fully set forth herein. (Ord. 373, 1974)
4-1-10: LIMITATIONS ON ADOPTION OF STATE LAW:
In adopting the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation
Code, wherever the State of California is named or referred to as the taxing
agency, the name of this City shall be substituted therefor. The substitution,
however, shall not be made when the word "State" is used as part of the title
of the State Controller, the State Treasurer, the State Board of Control, the
State Board of Equalization, the State Treasury, or the Constitution of the
State of California, the substitution shall not be made when the result of that
substitution would require action to be taken by or against the City, or any
agency thereof rather than by or against the State Board of Equalization, in
performing the functions incident to the administration or operation of this
Ordinance; the substitution shall not be made in those sections, including, but
not necessarily limited to, sections referring to the exterior boundaries of
the State of California, where the result of the substitution would be to
provide an exemption from this tax with respect to certain sales, storage, use
or other consumption of tangible personal property which would not otherwise be
exempt from this tax while such sales, storage, use or other consumption remain
subject to tax by the State under the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code, or to impose this tax with respect to certain sales,
storage, use or other consumption of tangible personal property which would not
be subject to tax by the State under the said provisions of this Code; the
substitution shall not be made in sections 6701, 6702 (except in the last
sentence thereof), 6711, 6715, 6737, 6797 or 6828 of the Revenue and Taxation
Code; and the substitution shall not be made for the word "State" in the phrase
"retailer engaged in business in this State" in section 6203 or in the
definition of that phrase in section 6203. (Ord. 373, 1974)
4-1-11: PERMIT NOT REQUIRED:
If a seller's permit has been issued to a retailer under Section 6067 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code, an additional seller's permit shall not be required
by this Ordinance. (Ord. 373, 1974)
4-1-12: EXCLUSIONS AND EXEMPTIONS:
There shall be excluded from the gross receipts by which the tax is measured:
   (A)   The amount of any sales or use tax imposed by the State of California
upon a retailer or consumer.
   (B)   The gross receipts from the sale of tangible personal property to
operators of aircraft to be used or consumed principally outside the city in
which the sale is made and directly and exclusively in the use of such aircraft
as common carriers of persons or property under the authority of the laws of
this State, the United States, or any foreign government 1 . (Ord. 481, 1-3-
1984)
 
Notes
1 1. This Section shall be operative January 1, 1984.
4-1-12: EXCLUSIONS AND EXEMPTIONS:
There shall be excluded from the gross receipts by which the tax is measured:
   (A)   The amount of any sales or use tax imposed by the State of California
upon a retailer or consumer.
   (B)   The gross receipts from the sale of tangible personal property to
operators of waterborne vessels to be used or consumed principally outside the
City in which the sale is made and directly and exclusively in the carriage of
persons or property in such vessels for commercial purposes.
   (C)   The gross receipts from the sale of tangible personal property to
operators of aircraft to be used or consumed principally outside the city in
which the sale is made and directly and exclusively in the use of such aircraft
as common carriers of persons or property under the authority of the laws of
this State, the United States, or any foreign government 1 . (Ord. 481, 1-3-
1984)
 
Notes
  1. This Section shall be operative on the operative date of any act of the
  Legislature of the State of California which amends or repeals and reenacts
  section 7202 of the Revenue and Taxation Code to provide an exemption from
1 city sales and use taxes for operators of waterborne vessels in the same, or
  substantially the same, language as that existing in subdivisions (i)(7) and
  (i)(8) of section 7202 of the Revenue and Taxation Code as those subdivisions
  read on October 1, 1983.
4-1-13: EXCLUSIONS AND EXEMPTIONS:
There shall be exempt from the tax due under this Section:
   (A)   The amount of any sales or use tax imposed by the State of California
upon a retailer or consumer.
   (B)   The storage, use or other consumption of tangible personal property,
the gross receipts from the sale of which has been subject to sales tax under a
sales and use tax ordinance enacted in accordance with Part 1.5 of Division 2
of the Revenue and Taxation Code by any city and county, county, or city in
this State.
   (C)   In addition to the exemptions provided in sections 6366 and 6366.1 of
the Revenue and Taxation Code, the storage, use, or other consumption of
tangible personal property purchased by operators of aircraft and used or
consumed by such operators directly and exclusively in the use of such aircraft
as common carriers of persons or property for hire or compensation under a
certificate of public convenience and necessity issued pursuant to the laws of
this State, the United States, or any foreign government 2 . (Ord. 481, 1-3-
1984)
 
Notes
2 2. This Section shall be operative January 1, 1984.
4-1-13: EXCLUSIONS AND EXEMPTIONS:
There shall be exempt from the tax due under this Section
   (A)   The amount of any sales or use tax imposed by the State of California
upon a retailer or consumer.
   (B)   The storage, use or other consumption of tangible person property, the
gross receipts from the sale of which has been subject to sales tax under a
sales and use tax ordinance enacted in accordance with Part 1.5 of Division 2
of the Revenue and Taxation Code by any city and county, county, or city in
this State.
   (C)   The storage, use or other consumption of tangible personal property
purchased by operators of waterborne vessels and used or consumed by such
operators directly and exclusively in the carriage of persons or property in
such vessels for commercial purposes.
   (D)   In addition to the exemptions provided in sections 6366 and 6366.1 of
the Revenue and Taxation Code, the storage, use, or other consumption of
tangible personal property purchased by operators of aircraft and used or
consumed by such operators directly and exclusively in the use of such aircraft
as common carriers of persons or property for hire or compensation under a
certificate of public convenience and necessity issued pursuant to the laws of
this State, the United States, or any foreign government 1 . (Ord. 481, 1-3-
1984)
 
Notes
  1. This Section shall be operative on the operative date of any act of the
  Legislature of the State of California which amends or repeals and reenacts
  section 7202 of the Revenue and Taxation Code to provide an exemption from
1 city sales and use taxes for operators of waterborne vessels in the same, or
  substantially the same, language as that existing in subdivisions (i)(7) and
  (i)(8) of section 7202 of the Revenue and Taxation Code as those subdivisions
  read on October 1, 1983.
4-1-14: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS RELATING TO EXCLUSIONS AND EXEMPTIONS:
(Rep. by Ord. 481, 1-3-1984)
4-1-15: AMENDMENTS:
All subsequent amendments of the Revenue and Taxation Code which relate to the
sales and use tax and which are not inconsistent with Part 1.5 of Division 2 of
the Revenue and Taxation Code shall automatically become a part of this
Ordinance. (Ord. 373, 1974)
4-1-16: ENJOINING COLLECTION FORBIDDEN:
No injunction or writ of mandate or other legal or equitable process shall
issue in any suit, action or proceeding in any court against the State or this
City, or against any officer of the State of this City, to prevent or enjoin
the collection under this Ordinance, or Part 1.5 of Division 2 of the Revenue
and Taxation Code, of any tax or any amount of tax required to be collected.
(Ord. 373, 1974)
4-1-17: PENALTIES:
Any person violating any of the provisions of this Ordinance shall be deemed
guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction thereof shall be punishable by a
fine of not more than five hundred dollars ($500.00) or by imprisonment for a
period of not more than six (6) months, or by both such fine and imprisonment.
(Ord. 373, 1974)
CHAPTER 2
BUSINESS LICENSE TAX
SECTION:
4-2-1: Definitions
4-2-2: Revenue Measure
4-2-3: Payment of Business Tax Does Not Relieve Other Taxes Required In Code Or
By Ordinance
4-2-4: Collector; Promulgation Of Rules And Regulations
4-2-5: Collector; Enforcement Duties
4-2-6: Business Tax Certificate, Business Tax Payment And Business License
Review Fees Requirement And State Mandated Fee
4-2-7: Appeals
4-2-8: Application
4-2-9: Compliance; Suspension; Revocation
4-2-10: Branch Establishments
4-2-11: Evidence Of Doing Business
4-2-12: Constitutional Apportionment
4-2-13: Exemptions
4-2-14: Effect Of Other Fees Paid
4-2-15: Business Tax Certificate; Contents
4-2-16: Business Tax Certificate; Applicant For First Certificate
4-2-17: Business Tax Certificate; Renewal
4-2-18: Business Tax Certificate; Nontransferable; Change In Location And
Ownership
4-2-19: Business Tax Certificate; Issuance Of Duplicate; Fee
4-2-20: Business Tax Certificate; Posting And Keeping
4-2-21: Statements And Records
4-2-22: Information Confidential; Types Of Disclosures Permitted
4-2-23: Failure To File Statement Of Corrected Statement; Hearing
4-2-24: Appeal
4-2-25: Additional Power Of Collector
4-2-26: Business Tax; Manner And Schedule Of Payments
4-2-27: Business Tax; Delinquency; Penalties; Installment Payment
4-2-28: Flat Rate Business Classification And Fees
4-2-29: Gross Receipts; Business Classification And Fees
4-2-29-1: Recreation And Entertainment
4-2-29-2: Sales And Services
4-2-30: Effective Date
4-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter and unless otherwise more particularly defined,
the following terms are hereby defined:
BUSINESS: Includes all trades, professions, vocations, occupations, callings,
operation, rendering service, conduct of affairs, trade or commerce, of
whatever kind or nature, whether or not carried on for profit.
BUSINESS TAX CERTIFICATE: The same as business license and shall be that
document issued as evidence of payment of business fees provided by this
chapter.
COLLECTOR: The city manager or city officer designated by the city manager for
the administration of this chapter.
COUNCIL: The city council of the city of Taft.
ESTABLISHED PLACE OF BUSINESS: A permanent store, market or other place of
business within the corporate limits of the city where business is regularly
transacted from month to month in such a manner as business of like nature is
generally conducted, and where the circumstances show a bona fide intention to
become an established, fixed and continuous part of the regular and legitimate
business life of the city, and not otherwise temporarily on the public streets
or highways, or in any hotel, lodging house or any place whatsoever where only
a temporary accommodation is established and not where any temporary expedient
is resorted to for a temporary purpose as distinguished from the bona fide
intention to become an established, fixed and continuous business within the
city.
GROSS RECEIPTS: The gross total amount of receipts from the sales and/or
services of any kind or nature received in the conduct or operation of such
business or rendering of services. Sales tax and receipts from sales includes
the total of amounts actually received or receivable from sales and the total
amounts actually received or receivable for the performance of any act or
service, of whatever nature it may be, for which a charge is made or credit
allowed, whether or not such act or service is done as a part of or in
connection with the sale of materials, goods, wares or merchandise. Included in
"gross receipts" shall be all receipts, cash, credits and property of any kind
or nature, without any deduction therefrom on account of the cost of the
property sold, the cost of materials used, labor or service costs, interest
paid or payable, or losses or other expenses whatsoever. Excluded from gross
receipts shall be the following:
   (A)   Cash discounts allowed and taken on sales;
   (B)   Credit allowed on property accepted as part of the purchase price and
which property may later be sold;
   (C)   Any tax required by law to be included in or added to the purchase
price and collected from the consumer or purchaser;
   (D)   Such part of the sale price of property returned by purchasers upon
rescission of the contract of sale as is refunded either in cash or by credit;
   (E)   Amounts collected for others where the business is acting as an agent
or trustee to the extent that such amounts are paid to those for whom
collected, provided the agent or trustee has furnished the collector with names
and addresses of the others and the amounts paid to them;
   (F)   Receipts of refundable deposits, except that refundable deposits
forfeited and taken into income of the business shall not be excluded;
   (G)   As to a real estate agent or broker, the sales price of real estate
sold for the account of others except that portion which represents commission
or other income to the agent or broker;
   (H)   A portion of the retail gasoline dealer's receipts from the sale of
motor vehicles fuels equal to the motor vehicle fuel license tax imposed by and
previously paid under the provisions of part 2 of division 2 of the Revenue And
Taxation Code of the state;
   (I)   The special motor fuel tax imposed on a retail gasoline dealer by
section 4041 of title 26 of the United States code if paid by the dealer or
collected by the dealer from the consumer or purchaser.
ITINERANT: A transient licensee with no fixed or established place of business
within the corporate limits of the city.
LICENSEE: Any person, firm or corporation to whom a business license shall be
issued hereunder, or of whom a business license shall be required hereunder.
PERSON: Includes all domestic and foreign corporations, associations,
syndicates, joint stock corporations, partnerships of every kind, clubs,
business or common law trusts, societies, and individuals transacting and
carrying on any business in the city, other than as an employee.
QUARTERLY, QUARTER, PER QUARTER: Each three (3) month quarter of the calendar
year.
SWORN STATEMENT: An affidavit sworn before a person authorized to take oaths,
or a declaration or certification made under penalty of perjury.
YEAR, ANNUAL, PER ANNUM: The fiscal year of the city. (Ord. 621-94, 12-20-1994)
4-2-2: REVENUE MEASURE:
This chapter is enacted solely to raise revenue for municipal purposes, and is
not intended for regulation. However, prior to the issuance of a business
license, the purpose, method and location of the business must conform to all
laws, ordinances and regulations applicable thereto and as provided in section
4-2-8 of this chapter. (Ord. 621-94, 12-20-1994)
4-2-3: PAYMENT OF BUSINESS TAX DOES NOT RELIEVE OTHER TAXES REQUIRED IN CODE OR
BY ORDINANCE:
Persons required to pay a business tax for transacting and carrying on any
business under this chapter shall not be relieved from the payment of any other
applicable tax or fee required under any other provision of this code, and
shall remain subject to the regulatory provisions of other ordinances.
No business license shall be issued to those persons delinquent in paying
applicable taxes or fees required under any other provisions of this code.
(Ord. 621-94, 12-20-1994)
4-2-4: COLLECTOR; PROMULGATION OF RULES AND REGULATIONS:
   (A)   The collector may promulgate rules and regulations consistent with the
provisions of this chapter as may be necessary or desirable to aid in the
interpretation and enforcement of the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   The collector is specifically authorized to promulgate rules and
regulations governing the rate of the business license tax on gross receipts
attributable to selling activities in the city where various extraterritorial
events contribute to such gross receipts. (Ord. 621-94, 12-20-1994)
4-2-5: COLLECTOR; ENFORCEMENT DUTIES:
   (A)   The collector shall enforce each and all of the provisions of this
chapter and the police chief and building official, together with every other
department of the City and agency acting on behalf of the City, shall render
such assistance in the enforcement of this chapter as is required to ensure
that all persons licensed by the City are complying with the provisions of this
chapter.
   (B)   The collector in the exercise of the duties imposed under this
chapter, and acting through deputies or duly authorized assistants, shall
examine or cause to be examined all places of business in the City to ascertain
whether the provisions of this chapter have been complied with.
   (C)   The collector and each and all deputies and assistants and any police
officer in the City shall have the power and authority to enter, free of
charge, and at any reasonable time, any place of business required to procure a
business tax certificate in this chapter and demand an exhibition of said
certificate. Any person having such business tax certificate theretofore
issued, who willfully fails to exhibit the same on demand, shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and subject to the penalties provided for by the provisions of this
code. It shall be the duty of the collector or any deputy or assistant to seek
a complaint from the appropriate authority to be filed against any and all
persons found to be violating any of the provisions.
   (D)   The collector may, with the prior consent of the city attorney,
deputize a qualified accountant to examine the necessary books and records of
any licensee. Any licensee refusing to exhibit the necessary books and records,
as required by the collector, is guilty of a misdemeanor. (Ord. 621-94, 12-20-
1994; amd. Ord. 852-23, 7-18-2023)
4-2-6: BUSINESS TAX CERTIFICATE, BUSINESS TAX PAYMENT AND BUSINESS LICENSE
REVIEW FEES REQUIREMENT AND STATE MANDATED FEE:
   (A)   There are imposed upon the businesses, trades, professions, callings
and occupations, including rental of personal property, specified in this
chapter, taxes in the amounts prescribed in this chapter. It is unlawful for
any person to transact and carry on any business, trade, profession, calling or
occupation, including lease or rental of personal property in the city without
first having procured a business tax certificate from the city to do so and
paying the tax prescribed by this chapter or without complying with any and all
applicable provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   This section shall not be construed to require any person to obtain a
business tax certificate prior to doing business within the city if such
requirement is superseded by applicable laws of the United States or of the
state. Persons not so required to obtain a business tax certificate prior to
doing business within the city nevertheless shall be liable for payment of tax
imposed by this chapter unless not required to do so by applicable law.
   (C)   All businesses located within the city limits, applying for a business
license for the first time or change in ownership will be charged a business
license review fee and a separate fee for the fire department inspection. The
review fee for businesses located inside the city limits will be charged sixty
dollars ($60.00), along with the separate fee set by the Kern County fire
department for mandated fire safety inspection. All businesses located outside
the city limits, applying for a business license for the first time or change
in ownership will be charged a forty dollar ($40.00) review fee. The review fee
is in the schedule of fees per executive order 1-89.
   (D)   Local government agencies are required to collect a one dollar ($1.00)
fee to be paid to the state of California. Senate bill 1186 imposes, on and
after January 1, 2013, and until December 31, 2018, an additional state fee of
one dollar ($1.00) on any applicant for a local business license or equivalent
instrument or permit, or renewal thereof, for purposes of increasing disability
access and compliance with construction related accessibility requirements and
developing educational resources for businesses to facilitate compliance with
federal and state disability laws. (Ord. 794-12, 11-20-2012)
4-2-7: APPEALS:
Decisions of the collector and/or City denying, suspending, revoking, or
failing to renew a business license certificate are appealable as provided in
section 4-2-24 of this chapter. (Ord. 621-94, 12-20-1994; amd. Ord. 852-23, 7-
18-2023)
4-2-8: APPLICATION:
   (A)   Application(s) for license(s) issued hereunder shall be in a manner
and form as directed by the collector, provided, all such applications shall
have the approval of the officer, agent or employee in charge of the
department.
   (B)   The following departments or agencies are authorized to review
business license applications for compliance with other applicable ordinances
and statutes before issuance of any business license:
      1.   Police;
      2.   Fire;
      3.   Building;
      4.   Code Enforcement;
      5.   Health;
      6.   Planning;
      7.   Finance.
   (C)   No business license shall be issued to conduct, maintain or operate
any business in the City unless the location of the business is within a proper
zone as indicated by title VI of this code. A business license may be withheld,
or otherwise denied, if it is determined that:
      1.   The application is incomplete;
      2.   The application contains false information;
      3.   The building, structure, premises, or the equipment used to conduct
the business activity fails to comply with all applicable health, zoning, fire,
building and safety, or nuisance prevention laws of the State or of the City;
or
      4.   There are fees, fines, or other penalties owing the City in
connection with the business activity including the building, structure,
premises, or the equipment used to conduct the business activity.
      However, the collector may approve a business permit and condition its
operative date upon the later submission by the applicant a certificate of
occupancy issued by the Building Department or other satisfactory evidence that
the business activity is then in compliance with all such applicable laws or
proof of payment of such fees, fines, or other penalties.
   (D)   Nothing in this chapter shall require the collector to issue a
business license to any applicant. If any applicant has had a business license
revoked or suspended pursuant to this chapter, the collector may deny a
business license to any business operated under the same name, same entity or
by the same officers, managers or individuals responsible for or owning the
business for which a license has been revoked or suspended regardless of any
name change, change in management or conveyance of the business to another
person or entity. (Ord. 621-94, 12-20-1994; amd. Ord. 852-23, 7-18-2023)
4-2-9: COMPLIANCE; SUSPENSION; REVOCATION:
   (A)   All businesses with licenses issued hereunder and those responsible
for the businesses shall ensure that the business and any associated building,
structure, premises, or the equipment used to conduct the business is in
compliance with all ordinances of the City and all the laws of the State and of
the United States of America, including all applicable health, zoning, fire,
building and safety, or nuisance prevention laws of the State or of the City.
   (B)   Business premises located within the City shall be subject to field
inspection by city representatives upon application for a new business license,
renewal of a license, and for a change of location to determine if the
location, business and situation are both legal and appropriate. A fee for such
field inspections may be set by resolution of the City Council.
   (C)   Each department of the City, which issued permits for work to be done,
shall require the production of a valid unexpired business tax certificate
prior to the issuance of such a permit.
   (D)   The City may deny, suspend, revoke, or fail to renew any business tax
certificate upon the finding of:
      1.   Any violation of this code, any other code adopted by this code, or
any state or federal law that occurred on the premises of or in connection with
the business establishment;
      2.   Any failure to comply with any regulatory provision contained in the
statutes of the state or in the ordinances of the City regulating such
business;
      3.   Any failure to operate such business in an orderly and businesslike
manner, in obedience to such orders, rules and regulations as may be applicable
thereto under the provisions of this code or statutes of this state;
      4.   Any business operations that are conducted in a manner adverse to
the public health, welfare and safety or in a manner that is illegal, improper
or disorderly which endangers the public welfare;
      5.   Any business operations that expand, change, or otherwise differ
from what was approved by the City in the business license; or
      6.   Information that was provided in the process of obtaining a business
license was materially false.
      Such decision to deny, suspend, revoke, or fail to renew a business tax
certificate must be in writing, with a brief explanation of the reasons for
denial based on the grounds in this subdivision, and must be served upon the
applicant by first-class mail at the address provided in their application or
renewal submissions, as the case may be, or alternatively, by email if the
applicant consents to email service and provides their email address.
   (E)   If a business tax certificate is suspended or revoked, no business may
be conducted at, by or through the business establishment until the City issues
a new business license or the suspension is lifted. A determination by the City
to deny, suspend, revoke, or fail to renew a business license may be appealed
pursuant to section
4-2-24 of this code.
   (F)   Upon any revocation of a business license, no refund of any license
fee shall be made and the fee shall be forfeited to the City. No business shall
be conducted or operated in any manner during any period of license revocation
or suspension. (Ord. 621-94, 12-20-1994; amd. Ord. 852-23, 7-18-2023)
4-2-10: BRANCH ESTABLISHMENTS:
A separate business tax certificate must be obtained for each branch
establishment or location of the business transacted and carried on and for
each separate type of business described thereby at the location or in the
manner designated in such business tax certificate; provided, that warehouses
used in connection with or incidental to a business taxed under the provisions
of this Chapter shall not be deemed to be separate places of business or branch
establishment, and; provided further, that any person conducting two (2) or
more types of businesses at the same location and under the same management, or
at different locations, but which businesses use a single set or integrated set
of books and records, may, at such person's option, pay only one tax calculated
on all gross receipts of the businesses under the schedule that applies to the
type of business of such person which requires the highest percentage payment
on such gross receipts, except that an administrative fee of ten dollars
($10.00) for each additional branch or location shall be paid upon issuance.
(Ord. 621-94, 12-20-1994)
4-2-11: EVIDENCE OF DOING BUSINESS:
When any person by use of signs, circulars, cards, telephone book, or
newspapers, advertises, holds out or by any other means represents that such
person is in business in the City, or when any person holds an active license
or permit issued by a governmental agency indicating that such person is in
business in the City, then these facts shall be considered prima facie evidence
that such person is conducting a business in the City. (Ord. 621-94, 12-20-
1994)
4-2-12: CONSTITUTIONAL APPORTIONMENT:
   (A)   None of the business taxes provided for by this Chapter shall be so
applied as to occasion an undue burden upon interstate commerce or be violative
of the equal protection and due process clauses of the Constitution of the
United States and the State.
   (B)   In a case where a business tax is believed by a business tax
certificate holder or applicant for a business tax certificate to place an
undue burden upon interstate commerce or be violative of such constitutional
clauses, application may be made to the Collector for an adjustment of the
business tax. Such application may be made before, at, or within one year after
payment of the prescribed business tax. (Ord. 621-94, 12-20-1994)
4-2-13: EXEMPTIONS:
   (A)   Nothing in this Chapter shall be deemed or construed to apply to any
person transacting and carrying on any business exempt by virtue of the
Constitution or applicable statutes of the United States or of the State from
the payment of such taxes as are prescribed in this Chapter.
   (B)   Any person claiming an exemption pursuant to this Section shall file a
sworn statement with the Collector stating the facts upon which exemption is
claimed, and in the absence of such statement substantiating the claim, such
person shall be liable for the payment of the taxes imposed by this Chapter.
   (C)   The Collector shall, upon a proper showing contained in the sworn
statement, issue a business tax certificate to such person claiming exemption
under this Section without payment to the City of the business tax required by
this Chapter. Such certificate shall show on its face that it is issued to an
exempt holder pursuant to this Section. Any such exemption shall be approved by
the City Attorney.
   (D)   The Collector, after giving notice and a reasonable opportunity for
hearing to a business tax certificate holder, may revoke any business tax
certificate granted pursuant to the provisions of this Section upon proof that
the exempt holder of the business tax certificate is not entitled to the
exemption as provided in this Section. (Ord. 621-94, 12-20-1994)
4-2-14: EFFECT OF OTHER FEES PAID:
Nothing in this Chapter shall be deemed or construed to impose a business tax
on any holder of any franchise from the City where the holder of the franchise
pays to the City by virtue of an obligation imposed by the franchise. (Ord.
621-94, 12-20-1994)
4-2-15: BUSINESS TAX CERTIFICATE; CONTENTS:
   (A)   Every person required to have a business tax certificate under the
provisions of this Chapter shall make applications as prescribed in Section
4-2-16 for the same to the Collector of the City, and upon the payment of the
prescribed business tax the Collector shall issue to such person a business tax
certificate which shall contain the following information:
      1.   The name of the person to whom the business tax certificate is
issued;
      2.   The business taxed;
      3.   The place where such business is to be transacted and carried on;
      4.   The date of the expiration of such business tax certificate; and
      5.   Such other information as may be necessary for the enforcement of
the provisions of this Chapter.
   (B)   Whenever this business tax imposed under the provisions of this
Chapter is measured by the number of vehicles, devices, machines or other
pieces of equipment used, or whenever the business tax is measured by the gross
receipts from the operation of such items, the Collector shall issue only one
business tax certificate; provided, that he may issue for each tax period for
which the business tax has been paid one identification sticker, tag, plate or
symbol for each item included in the measure of the tax or used in a business
where the tax is measured by the gross receipts from such items. (Ord. 621-94,
12-20-1994)
4-2-16: BUSINESS TAX CERTIFICATE; APPLICANT FOR FIRST CERTIFICATE:
   (A)   Upon a person making application for the first business tax
certificate to be issued under this chapter or for newly established business,
such person shall furnish to the collector a sworn statement, upon a form
provided by the collector, setting forth the following information:
      1.   The exact nature or kind of business for which a business tax
certificate is requested;
      2.   The place where such business is to be carried on, and if the same
is not to be carried on at any permanent place of business, the places of
residences of the owners of same;
      3.   In the event that application is made for the issuance of a business
tax certificate to a corporation or a partnership, the application shall set
forth the names and places of residences of the officers or partners thereof;
      4.   In the event that application is made for the issuance of a business
tax certificate to a person doing business under a fictitious name, the
application shall set forth the names and places of residences of those owning
the business;
      5.   In all cases where the amount of business tax to be paid is measured
by gross receipts, the application shall set forth such information as may be
therein required and as may be necessary to determine the amount of the
business tax to be paid by the applicant;
      6.   Any further relevant information which the collector may require to
enable issuance of the type of business tax certificate for which the
application was made.
   (B)   If the amount of the business tax to be paid by the applicant is
measured by gross receipts, an estimate of the gross receipts shall be made by
the applicant for the period to be covered by the business tax certificate to
be issued. Such estimate, if accepted by the collector as reasonable, shall be
used in determining the amount of business tax to be paid by the applicant.
   (C)   The collector shall not issue to any such person another business tax
certificate for the same or any other business, until such person has furnished
to him the sworn statement and paid the business tax as required in this
chapter. (Ord. 621-94, 12-20-1994)
4-2-17: BUSINESS TAX CERTIFICATE; RENEWAL:
   (A)   In all cases, the applicant for the renewal of a business tax
certificate shall submit to the collector for guidance in ascertaining the
amount of the business tax to be paid by the applicant, a sworn statement, upon
a form to be provided by the collector, setting forth such information
concerning the applicant's business during the preceding year as may be
required by the collector to enable the ascertainment of the amount of the
business tax to be paid by the applicant pursuant to the provisions of this
chapter.
   (B)   Renewal may be withheld upon the grounds provided in subsection 4-2-9
(D) or if a recommendation has been made for revocation, suspension, or
nonrenewal of the business tax certificate by the collector, city manager if
the city manager is not the collector, city attorney, police chief, fire chief,
building official, or enforcement officer based upon grounds stated in
subsection 4-2-9(D). (Ord. 621-94, 12-20-1994; amd. Ord. 852-23, 7-18-2023)
4-2-18: BUSINESS TAX CERTIFICATE; NONTRANSFERABLE; CHANGE IN LOCATION AND
OWNERSHIP:
   (A)   No business tax certificate issued pursuant to this chapter shall be
transferable; provided, that where a business tax certificate is issued
authorizing a person to transact and carry on a business at a particular place,
such business tax certificate holder may upon application therefor and paying a
fee of ten dollars ($10.00) have the business tax certificate amended to
authorize the transfer of the business tax certificate to some other lawfully
approved location to which the business is or is to be moved; provided further,
that transfer whether by sale or otherwise, to another person under such
circumstances that the real or ultimate ownership after the transfer is
substantially similar to the ownership existing before the transfer, shall not
be prohibited by this section.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section stockholders, bondholders, or other
entity defined to be a "person" in section
4-2-1 of this chapter are regarded as having the real or ultimate ownership of
such corporation or other entity. (Ord. 621-94, 12-20-1994)
4-2-19: BUSINESS TAX CERTIFICATE; ISSUANCE OF DUPLICATE; FEE:
A duplicate business tax certificate may be issued by the collector to replace
any business tax certificate previously issued under this chapter which has
been lost or destroyed upon the business tax certificate holder filing
statement of such fact, and at the time of filing such statement paying the
collector a duplicate fee of ten dollars ($10.00), and must be paid at the time
the request is made. (Ord. 794-12, 11-20-2012)
4-2-20: BUSINESS TAX CERTIFICATE; POSTING AND KEEPING:
   (A)   Any business tax certificate holder transacting and carrying on
business at a fixed place of business in the City shall keep the business tax
certificate posted in a conspicuous place upon the premises where such business
is carried on.
   (B)   Any business tax certificate holder transacting and carrying on
business but not operating at a fixed place of business in the City shall
personally hold the business tax certificate at all times while transacting and
carrying on the business for which it is issued.
   (C)   Whenever identifying stickers, tags, plates or symbols have been
issued for each vehicle, device, machine, or other piece of equipment included
in the measure of a business tax, the person to whom such stickers, tags,
plates, or symbol which has been issued shall display at such locations as are
designated by the Collector. Such sticker, tag, plate or symbol shall not be
removed from any vehicle device, machine or piece of equipment kept in use
during the period for which the sticker, tag, plate or symbol is issued.
   (D)   No person shall fail to affix as required in this Chapter any
identifying sticker, tag, plate or symbol to the vehicle, device, machine or
piece of equipment, for which it has been issued at the location designated by
the Collector, or give away, sell or transfer such identifying sticker, tag,
plate or symbol to another person, or to permit its use by another person.
(Ord. 621-94, 12-20-1994)
4-2-21: STATEMENTS AND RECORDS:
   (A)   No statement shall be conclusive as to the matters set forth therein,
nor shall the filing of the same preclude the City from collection by
appropriate action such sum as is actually due and payable under this Chapter.
Such statement and each of the several items therein contained shall be subject
to audit and verification by the Collector, the deputies, or authorized
employees of the City, who are hereby authorized to examine, audit, and inspect
such books and records of any business tax certificate holder or applicant for
license, as may be necessary in their judgment to verify or ascertain the
amount of license fee due.
   (B)   All persons subject to the provisions of this Chapter shall keep
complete records of business transactions, including sales, receipts,
purchases, and other expenditures and shall retain all such records for
examination by the Collector. Such records shall be maintained for a period of
at least three (3) years. No person required to keep records under this Section
shall refuse to allow authorized representatives of the Collector to examine
said records at reasonable times and places. (Ord. 621-94, 12-20-1994)
4-2-22: INFORMATION CONFIDENTIAL; TYPES OF DISCLOSURES PERMITTED:
It is unlawful for the Collector or any person having an administrative duty
under the provisions of this Chapter to make known in any manner whatever
information pertaining to the business affairs, operations, or other
information obtained by an investigation of records and equipment of any person
required to obtain a business tax certificate, or pay a business tax, or any
other person visited or examined in the discharge of official duty, or the
amount or source of income, profits, losses, expenditures, or any particular
thereof, set forth in any statement application, or to permit any statement or
application, or copy of either, or any book containing any abstract or
particulars thereof to be seen or examined by any person; provided, that
nothing in this Section shall be construed to prevent:
   (A)   The disclosure to, or the examination of records and equipment by,
another City official, employee, or agent for collection of taxes for the sole
purpose of administering or enforcing any provisions of this Chapter, or
collecting taxes imposed under this Chapter;
   (B)   The disclosure of information to, or the examination of records by,
Federal or State officials, or the tax officials of another city or county, or
city and county, if a reciprocal arrangement exists, or to a grand jury or
court of law, upon subpoena;
   (C)   The disclosure of information and results of examination of records of
particular taxpayers, or relating to particular taxpayers, to a court of law in
a proceeding brought to determine the existence or amount of any license tax
liability of the particular taxpayers to the City;
   (D)   The disclosure after the filing of a written request to that effect,
to the taxpayers, or to his successors, receivers, trustees, executors,
administrators, assignees and guarantors, if directly interested, of
information as to the items included in the measure of any paid tax, any unpaid
tax or amounts of tax required to be collected, interest and penalties;
provided further, however, that the City Attorney approves each such disclosure
and that the Collector may refuse to make any disclosure referred to in this
subsection when public interest would suffer thereby;
   (E)   The disclosure of names and addresses of persons to whom business tax
certificates have been issued, and the general type or nature of their
business;
   (F)   The disclosure by way of public meeting or otherwise of such
information as may be necessary to the Collector in order to permit it to be
fully advised as to the facts when a taxpayer files a claim for refund of
business taxes, or submits an offer of compromise with regard to a claim
asserted by the City for business taxes, or when acting upon any other matter;
   (G)   The disclosure of general statistics regarding taxes collected or
business done in the City;
   (H)   The disclosure of information and examination of records of any
business tax certificate holder who is a litigant in any lawsuit involving the
City and such information is relevant to the issues in such lawsuit. (Ord. 621-
94, 12-20-1994)
4-2-23: FAILURE TO FILE STATEMENT OF CORRECTED STATEMENT; HEARING:
   (A)   If a person fails to file any required statement within the time
prescribed, or after demand therefor made by the Collector or if any person
subject to the tax imposed by this Chapter fails to apply for a business tax
certificate, the Collector may determine the amount of business tax due from
such person by means of such information obtained from any source.
   (B)   If the Collector is not satisfied with the information supplied in
statements or applications filed, he may determine the amount of any business
tax due by means of any relevant information he may be able to obtain.
   (C)   If such a determination is made the Collector shall give a notice of
the amount so assessed by serving it personally or by depositing it in the
United States Post Office at Taft, California, postage prepaid, addressed to
the person so assessed at his last known address. Such person may within
fifteen (15) days after the mailing or serving of such notice, make application
in writing to the City Clerk for a hearing on the amount of the business tax.
If such application is made, the City Clerk shall cause the matter to be set
for hearing before the City Council. The City Clerk shall give at least ten
(10) days' notice to such person of the time and place of hearing in the manner
prescribed above in this subsection for serving notices of assessment. The City
Council shall make findings thereon, which shall be final. Notice of such
findings shall be served upon the applicant in the manner prescribed above in
this subsection for serving notices of assessment. (Ord. 621-94, 12-20-1994)
4-2-24: APPEAL:
Any applicant for a business tax certificate or renewal of a business tax
certificate aggrieved by a decision of the collector and/or City with respect
to the decision to deny, suspend, revoke, or fail to renew a business tax
certificate may be appealed pursuant to the processes in this section.
   (A)   Such appeal must be filed with the office of the city manager on a
city-approved hearing request form within twenty (20) days from the date the
City gave written notice of the challenged decision, setting forth the reasons
why the applicant believes that the grounds for the challenged decision have
not been established under subsection
4-2-9(D). The request may be for an in-person hearing or a hearing by written
declaration.
      1.   If an in-person hearing is requested, the City shall set the date
and time for the administrative hearing before an assigned neutral hearing
officer. The responsible party requesting the in-person hearing shall be served
written notice of the time and place set for the administrative hearing and the
assigned hearing officer at least ten (10) days prior to the date of the
administrative hearing.
      2.   If a hearing by written declaration is requested, then the written
declaration(s) submitted by the applicant must be made under penalty of perjury
and attached to the hearing request form upon submission to the office of the
city manager to be provided to an assigned neutral hearing officer. The written
declarations must relate to the grounds identified in subsection
4-2-9(D) and must attach all evidence the applicant wishes the hearing officer
to consider. The written declarations may not be augmented or supplemented
unless permission to do so is obtained from the hearing officer prior to her or
her issuance of a decision.
      3.   The collector and/or other relevant city departments may submit a
written report concerning the grounds identified in subsection
4-2-9(D) to the hearing officer for consideration. If an in-person hearing is
requested, then the report must be submitted to the hearing officer three
business days in advance of the in-person hearing and served upon the hearing
officer and applicant who sought the appeal. If a hearing by written
declaration is requested, then the report may be submitted to the hearing
officer within thirty (30) days of the hearing request and served upon the
hearing officer and applicant who sought the appeal.
      4.   Failure by any applicant to timely and properly appeal a decision as
provided in this section shall constitute an admission by the applicant to the
establishment of the grounds for denial, suspension, revocation, or failure to
renew the business tax certificate cited in the decision, an admission by the
applicant to that party's liability for the grounds cited in the decision, a
waiver of the applicant's right to contest the decision, and a failure by the
applicant to exhaust that party's administrative remedies. The decision shall
be deemed final if no timely or proper appeal is made.
   (B)   The procedures for all administrative hearings pursuant to this
section shall follow the procedures of section
1-3-9. However, in that section where reference is made to any administrative
citation, or the cited violations in any administrative citation, for purposes
of this section, the references should be understood as referring to the
decision to deny, suspend, revoke, or fail to renew a business tax certificate
and the grounds for denial, suspension, revocation, or failure to renew the
business tax certificate cited in the decision.
   (C)   The procedures for the selection of a hearing officer and the decision
of a hearing for all administrative hearings pursuant to this section shall
follow the procedures of section
1-3-10. However, in that section where reference is made to uphold, modify, or
dismiss the contested administrative citation, for purposes of this section,
the references should be understood as referring to uphold or set aside the
decision to deny, suspend, revoke, or fail to renew a business tax certificate.
Further, in that section where reference is made to any administrative
citation, for purposes of this section, the references should be understood as
referring to the decision to deny, suspend, revoke, or fail to renew a business
tax certificate. Finally, in that section where reference is made to the
enforcement officer, for purposes of this section, the references should be
understood as referring to the collector.
   (D)   The decision issued by the hearing officer under this section shall be
deemed a final order and may be judicially reviewed pursuant to California Code
of Civil Procedure section 1094.6. There is no right to an appeal to the City
Council. (Ord. 621-94, 12-20-1994; amd. Ord. 852-23, 7-18-2023)
4-2-25: ADDITIONAL POWER OF COLLECTOR:
In addition to all other power conferred, the Collector shall have the power,
for good cause shown, to extend the time for filing any required sworn
statement or application for a period not exceeding thirty (30) days, and in
such case to waive any penalty that would otherwise have accrued. (Ord. 621-94,
12-20-1994)
4-2-26: BUSINESS TAX; MANNER AND SCHEDULE OF PAYMENTS:
   (A)   Unless otherwise specifically provided, all annual business taxes,
under the provisions of this Chapter shall be due and payable in advance on
January 1 of each year; provided, that business taxes covering new operations,
commenced after January 1, may be prorated for the balance of the business
period.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, business taxes, other
than annual, required under this chapter shall be due and payable as follows:
      1.   Semiannual business taxes, on January 1 and July 1 of each year;
      2.   Quarterly business taxes, January 1, April 1, July 1 and October 1
of each year;
      3.   Monthly business taxes, on the first day of each and every month;
      4.   Weekly flat rate business taxes on Monday of each week in advance;
      5.   Daily flat rate business taxes each day in advance;
      6.   Other flat rate business taxes are payable in advance on the first
day of business and thereafter on the first day of any applicable period. (Ord.
621-94, 12-20-1994)
4-2-27: BUSINESS TAX; DELINQUENCY; PENALTIES; INSTALLMENT PAYMENT:
   (A)   For failure to pay a business tax within thirty (30) days of the due
date, the collector shall add a penalty of twenty five percent (25%) of the
business tax, provided that the amount of such penalty to be added shall in no
event exceed fifty percent (50%) of the amount of the business tax due. (Ord.
664-99, 2-16-1999)
   (B)   No business tax certificate or sticker, tag, plate or symbol shall be
issued, nor one which has been suspended or revoked shall be reinstated or
reissued, to any person who at the time of applying therefor, is indebted to
the city for any delinquent business taxes, unless such person, with the
consent of the collector, enters into a written agreement with the city,
through the collector, to pay such delinquent taxes, plus the penalty and ten
percent (10%) annual interest upon the balance, in monthly installments, or
more often extending over a period of not to exceed one year.
      1.   In an agreement so entered into, such person shall acknowledge the
obligation owed to the city and agree that, in the event of failure to make
timely payment of any installment, the whole amount unpaid shall become
immediately due and payable and that his current business tax certificate shall
be revocable by the collector within thirty (30) days' notice. In the event
legal action is brought by the city to enforce collection of any amount
included in the agreement, such person shall pay all costs of suit incurred by
the city or its assignee, including a reasonable cost allocated for attorney
fees.
      2.   The execution of such an agreement shall not prevent the prior
accrual of penalties on unpaid balances at the rate provided in subsection (A)
of this section, but no penalties shall accrue on account of taxes included in
the agreement, after the execution of the agreement, and the payment of the
first installment and during such time as such person shall not be in breach of
the agreement. (Ord. 621-94, 12-20-1994)
4-2-28: FLAT RATE BUSINESS CLASSIFICATION AND FEES:
   (A)   Every person transacting and carrying on the business enumerated in
this section shall pay a business license fee as follows:
      1.   Apartments Or Courts: The license fee for the operation of up to
four (4) units is forty dollars ($40.00) per year. Each additional unit over
four (4) is five dollars ($5.00) per year.
      2.   Arts And Crafts Fairs: Organizations sponsoring arts and crafts
fairs, community celebrations or similar activities of more than five (5)
vendors, not exceeding eight (8) calendar days in duration shall pay a license
fee as follows:
 
(a) 5-10 participants    $30.00/event
(b) 11-24 participants   50.00/event
(c) 25-50 participants   75.00/event
(d) Over 50 participants 100.00/event
 
      3.   Auto Wrecking: The license fee for the purchase and sale of damaged
motor vehicles or parts is two hundred dollars ($200.00) per year.
      4.   Automobile Storage Or Parking Lots: The license fee for an
automobile storage or parking lot with no building or structure on the property
is fifty dollars ($50.00) per year.
      5.   Billboard Or Advertising Sign Business: The license fee for a
billboard or advertising sign business is one hundred dollars ($100.00) per
year.
      6.   Card Tables:
         (a)   No person shall engage in managing, conducting or carrying on
the business of maintaining a place where tables are used by the public for
playing cards, until such person shall have first obtained a permit and license
to conduct the business.
         (b)   Every person proposing to engage in carrying on or conducting
the business of maintaining a place where tables are used by the public for
playing cards shall make out an application to the chief of police for a permit
to so do.
         (c)   The chief of police is hereby directed to investigate the
location, building and premises of the applicant for a permit; provided, that
there is at least one entrance from the street or public parking area, and at
least one window in the front thereof adjacent to the street or parking area.
No doors, screens or other obstructions shall be used to conceal the players at
any table.
         (d)   Nothing herein contained shall be in any manner construed as
permitting any gaming prohibited by the laws of the state, or the provisions of
this code.
         (e)   No licensee, permittee or his agent shall allow any person under
the age of twenty one (21) years to play cards or otherwise patronize his place
of business.
         (f)   The license fee for carrying on or conducting the business
heretofore described in this subsection shall be one thousand five hundred
dollars ($1,500.00) per annum, payable quarterly in advance, for any number of
tables up to five (5), and three hundred seventy five dollars ($375.00)
quarterly for each additional table in excess of five (5) payable quarterly in
advance.
      7.   Cleaners, Laundries: For soliciting, receiving or delivering
clothing or textiles of any form or nature, in any manner, for dry cleaning or
laundry services or other cleaning services, when such dry cleaning, laundry or
other cleaning services are performed outside of the city, the license fee is
seventy five dollars ($75.00) per year for each vehicle engaged or operated in
such soliciting, receiving or delivering.
      8.   Coin Operated Machines: Includes all types of coin operated, debit
and credit card machines, weighing scales, phonographs, cigarette machines,
peanut machines, gum machines, rifles, pin tables, counter games, video games,
and all other games, video (DVD) and game rental machines, and machines
operated by placing a coin in or inserting a debit or credit card to bring
about its operation, except machines dispensing U.S. postage stamps. "Operator"
means any person selling or placing on assignment or on commission basis in two
(2) or more places of business, any coin operated, debit or credit card machine
or device. "Owner" means any person doing business at one business location
only.
         (a)   The license fee for a distributor of dispensing and
nondispensing machines shall be based upon the gross receipts schedule in
subsection
4-2-29-2(C) of this chapter.
         (b)   The license fee for merchandise dispensing machines on premises,
per machine, shall be based upon the gross receipts schedule in subsection
4-2-29-2(C) of this chapter.
         (c)   The license fee for nondispensing machines including video
games, arcade games, music devices, etc., is thirty dollars ($30.00), minimum
licensing fee, for the first machine and then ten dollars ($10.00) per machine
thereafter, on each premises, with a maximum of two hundred dollars ($200.00)
per year at any one location.
      9.   Collection Agency: For an establishment for the collection of
accounts, notes, obligations or debts for others for a compensation or fee,
provided this shall not apply to attorneys at law, the license fee is forty
dollars ($40.00) per year.
      10.   Contractors/Builders: This subsection refers to "contractor" as
defined in division 3, chapter 9, article 2, section 7026 of the Business And
Professions Code of the state. Contractors who undertake, or offer to
undertake, the performance of any work of improvement, maintenance, alteration
or repair in or upon real property, the annual license fee shall be based upon
the gross receipts schedule in subsection
4-2-29-2(C) of this chapter.
      11.   Dance Academy: The license fee for operating a regularly
established place of business where instructions in dancing or dancing lessons
are given or taught and a charge or fee for such instructions or lessons is
made or paid is thirty dollars ($30.00) per year.
      12.   Hotels, Motels, Lodging House, Campgrounds And Commercial Leasing,
Etc.:
         (a)   For operating any hotel, motel or similar accommodation, the
annual license fee is as follows:
 
Less than 20 rooms            $40.00
20 to, and including 34 rooms 65.00
35 to, and including 49 rooms 85.00
50 or more rooms              $2.00 per room, per year
 
         (b)   For operating campground, recreational vehicle park (RV park),
or similar accommodation, the annual license fee is as follows:
 
Less than 20 spaces $40.00
20 or more          $5.00 per each space
 
         (c)   For operating commercial leasing property, the annual license
fee is as follows:
 
$30.00 for the first 1,000 square feet, and $20.00 per 1,000 square feet,
thereafter
 
      13.   Importing Of Merchandise For Wholesale:
         (a)   For the importing into the city, for any delivery therein, of
any goods, wares or merchandise, when such importing and delivery is by means
of any vehicle operated upon the public streets or highways, the license fees
for such importing and delivery shall be based upon the average number of
importings and deliveries per week and shall be in accord with the following
schedule:
 
Deliveries Per Week Fee Per Year
Less than 2         $30.00
2 or 3              40.00
4 or more           50.00
 
         (b)   The license fee in this subsection apply to each and every
vehicle used and/or employed in the importing of merchandise under this
subsection provided, however, in no case shall these fees exceed two hundred
dollars ($200.00) per year.
         (c)   "Importing of merchandise", or any variation, as used in this
subsection, refers to importing of merchandise at wholesale only, and for the
purpose of resale. The provisions of this subsection shall not apply to any
importing of goods, wares or merchandise where the sale and/or delivery of any
goods, wares or merchandise is at retail to the ultimate consumer and/or user
of such goods, wares or merchandise.
         (d)   This subsection shall not apply to vehicles owned and/or
operated by an established licensed place of business in the city and used
exclusively for such licensed business.
      14.   Importing Of Merchandise For Retail Sale:
         (a)   Whenever any business consists of the sale and delivery, at
retail, of goods, wares or merchandise from house to house, or place to place,
when such business does not maintain and operate an established retail sales
store, market or other fixed business in the city for retail sales to the
general public, such business shall pay a license fee of fifty dollars ($50.00)
per year for each and every vehicle used in the conduct of business.
         (b)   "Vehicle", as used in this subsection, includes all automobile,
push carts, vans, trailers or other means of transportation of persons or
property on the public streets.
         (c)   "Sale at retail", as used in this subsection refers to all sales
where the delivery of goods, wares or merchandise is to the ultimate consumer
and/or user.
         (d)   The provisions of this subsection refer only to regularly
established and regularly operated retail sales routes, and shall not apply to
any transient, sporadic or irregular sales business which shall be classified
as itinerant sales under the provisions of subsection (A)15 of this section.
      15.   Itinerant Vendor, Peddler, Salesman, Solicitor, Etc.:
         (a)   For the sale or solicitation for sale of any goods, wares or
merchandise to the ultimate consumer when the seller has no established place
of business in the city, the license fee is twenty dollars ($20.00) per
quarter.
         (b)   Itinerant Christmas tree vendors shall pay a license fee of
forty dollars ($40.00) per year except for the following:
            (1)    Sale of trees as a part of, and on the premises of, an
established place of business shall include Christmas tree sales as part of the
gross receipts of such business;
            (2)    Sales of trees solely for the benefit of a charitable or
nonprofit organization.
      16.   Laundromats: The license fee for a place of business containing
laundry machines (washers and dryers) for use by the public shall be as
follows:
         (a)   Laundromats with nineteen (19) or more machines at any one
location shall be based upon the gross receipts schedule in subsection
4-2-29-2(C) of this chapter.
         (b)   Laundromats with less than nineteen (19) machines at any one
location shall pay thirty dollars ($30.00), minimum licensing fee, for the
first machine and then ten dollars ($10.00) per machine, thereafter, on each
premises, with a maximum of two hundred dollars ($200.00) at any one location.
      17.   Palmist, Fortune Teller, Clairvoyant, Etc.: For practicing or
engaging in the business of palmist, fortune teller, clairvoyant, phrenologist,
astrologer, necromancer or any kindred business, the license fee is five
hundred dollars ($500.00) per year or any fraction thereof without proration.
      18.   Professions And Specified Personal Services:
         (a)   For the rendering and performing of business and professional
services in the classifications specified in this subsection where the
profession is leasing or renting space within an established business, a
license fee is thirty dollars ($30.00) and is due and payable annually:
Accountant, certified public.
Agent, real estate, all others.
Anesthetist.
Architect.
Assayer.
Attorney.
Auditor.
Barber.
Beautician (cosmetology).
Bookkeeping and accounting.
Broker, real estate, insurance.
Chemists.
Chiropodist.
Chiropractor.
Dental lab (technician).
Dentist, orthodontist.
Designer, structural or building.
Draftsman.
Electrolysis.
Engineer, registered.
Esthetics (skin care).
Foot spa.
Geologist.
Manicuring/nail salon.
Medical lab or technician.
Mortgage companies.
Nurse practitioner.
Oculist, optician, optometrists.
Physician, surgeon, psychiatrist.
Physiotherapist.
Psychologist.
Surveyors, licensed land.
Veterinarian.
         (b)   In the event of an omission of any profession not listed above,
the minimum license fee is thirty dollars ($30.00) per year, per person, so
engaged.
         (c)   Whenever more than one person is engaged in the conduct of a
profession listed in this subsection, but not limited to, in association with
others of the same profession, who is renting or leasing office space, booth
space, etc., the license fee for each such additional person is thirty dollars
($30.00).
      19.   Rental Cars, Automobiles For Hire, Stages: The license fee for
rental cars, automobiles for hire and stages is thirty dollars ($30.00) per
vehicle, per year.
      20.   Secondhand Dealer, Secondhand Furniture Dealer: Any person dealing
in, buying, selling or exchanging secondhand household furniture or household
goods only; provided, however, that this definition does not include any
person, firm or corporation who handles or deals in secondhand household
furniture or household goods only as an incident to his regular business, or
one who conducts or maintains a furniture store and whose principal business
consists of buying, selling or dealing in new and unused furniture or household
goods. The license fee for secondhand dealers is forty dollars ($40.00) per
year.
      21.   Shows, Theaters, Carnivals, Exhibitions:
         (a)   For engaging in the business of operating any theater, playhouse
or motion picture house at an established place of business, wholly within a
structure designed and constructed for theater or auditorium purposes, the
license fee shall be one hundred dollars ($100.00) per year.
         (b)   For operating any carnival, traveling show, collection of shows
and/or attractions, exhibitions, rides, concessions, animal or mechanical,
games of skill or chance, wherever conducted, the license fee is five hundred
dollars ($500.00) for seven (7) days or less.
         (c)   Whenever any exhibition consists of a circus, animal exhibition
or acrobatic performance, the license fee is two hundred fifty dollars
($250.00) for two (2) performances.
         (d)   Whenever any exhibition consists solely of an article of public
interest contained in, or upon, a single vehicle not operated in connection
with any carnival, circus or traveling show, the license fee is thirty dollars
($30.00) for the first day and then ten dollars ($10.00) per day for each
exhibit in, or upon, such vehicle.
         (e)   For open air theaters, tent shows, trade exhibitions; except
exhibitions, shows, etc., given for the benefit of churches, schools or
charitable organizations, the license fee shall be thirty dollars ($30.00) for
the first day and ten dollars ($10.00) per day for each additional day.
      22.   Solicitor, Salesman, Service Repairman Or Canvasser:
         (a)   A solicitor, salesman, service repairman or canvasser, for the
purpose of this subsection, refers to any person who goes from house to house
or place to place, or at any place, soliciting or taking orders for or offering
to sell any goods, wares or merchandise for future delivery to the ultimate
consumer or user; or soliciting or taking orders for any services or repairing
to be performed in the future or doing or performing any services or repairs.
The provisions of this subsection shall not apply to any solicitor, salesman,
service repairman or canvasser employed by any business maintaining and
operating an established place of business in the city.
         (b)   Every solicitor, salesman, service repairman or canvasser shall
pay a registration fee of ten dollars ($10.00) per solicitor plus the tax
specified in subsection
4-2-29-2(C) of this chapter.
      23.   Taxicab: The license fee for operation of a taxi service is forty
dollars ($40.00) per vehicle per year.
         (a)   The fee for a driver's permit as required pursuant to subsection
4-19-28(B) of this title is twenty five dollars ($25.00).
         (b)   The fee to renew a driver's permit, required pursuant to
subsection
4-19-28(H) of this title is fifteen dollars ($15.00).
         (c)   The fee for the transfer, to another carrier, of any driver's
permit, required pursuant to subsection
4-19-28(I) of this title is fifteen dollars ($15.00).
         (d)   The fee for a duplicate of any driver's permit pursuant to
subsection
4-19-28(J) of this title is ten dollars ($10.00), and must be paid at the time
the request is made.
      24.   Trading Stamp Company: The license fee for operation of a trading
stamp company is one hundred dollars ($100.00) per year.
      25.   Trucking, Hauling:
         (a)   For the business of owning and operating any vehicle and/or
vehicles for transportation of property for hire, irrespective of point of
origin or destination of haul, where such business has an established place of
business within the city, the annual license fee is thirty dollars ($30.00) for
eight thousand (8,000) pounds and under carrying capacity and forty dollars
($40.00) for carrying capacity exceeding eight thousand (8,000) pounds.
         (b)   When the business specified in this subsection has no
established place of business, the annual fee for operation of each vehicle
operated is forty dollars ($40.00) for eight thousand (8,000) pounds and under
carrying capacity and fifty dollars ($50.00) for carrying capacity exceeding
eight thousand (8,000) pounds.
      26.   Wireless Television And Wireless Internet Transmission: The license
fee for wireless television and wireless internet transmission or similar
devices not subject to section
4-11-1 of this title is five percent (5%) of gross revenue generated within the
city limits. (Ord. 794-12, 11-20-2012)
4-2-29: GROSS RECEIPTS; BUSINESS CLASSIFICATION AND FEES:
4-2-29-1: RECREATION AND ENTERTAINMENT:
   (A)   Every business engaged in providing entertainment, recreation or
amusement, and not otherwise specifically listed elsewhere in the provisions of
chapters 1 through 20 of this title shall pay an annual license fee based upon
the gross receipt schedule in subsection
4-2-29-2(C) of this chapter.
   (B)   The business of providing entertainment, recreation or amusement shall
include, but is not limited to, the following:
   Billiards, pool.
   Bowling.
   Miniature golf.
   Shooting gallery.
   Shuffleboard.
   Skating ring. (Ord. 621-94, 12-20-1994)
4-2-29-2: SALES AND SERVICES:
   (A)   For the maintaining, operating or carrying on of any business at an
established place of business or the performance or rendering of any services
within the city when such business, or the rendering of services, is not
elsewhere in chapters 1 through 20 of this title, or provided for in any other
ordinance.
   (B)   "Monthly receipts" refers to the average monthly gross receipts for
the quarter immediately preceding the issuance and/or renewal of any business
license. Upon commencement of a new business not in existence during such
preceding quarter the minimum license fee shall be paid. Sales tax collected
shall not be included in gross receipts. (Ord. 621-94, 12-20-1994)
   (C)   The annual license fee shall be based upon the monthly gross receipts
and in accord with the following schedule:
Monthly Gross Receipts Fee Per Year
Monthly Gross Receipts               Fee Per Year
$2,000.00 or less                    $30.00 minimum fee
$2,000.01 to $4,000.00               $50.00
$4,000.01 to $6,000.00               70.00
$6,000.01 to $10,000.00              90.00
$10,000.01 to $14,000.00             110.00
$14,000.01 to $20,000.00             140.00
$20,000.01 to $30,000.00             170.00
$30,000.01 to $40,000.00             200.00
$40,000.01 to $50,000.00             250.00
$50,000.01 and over (based on actual Average monthly gross receipts multiplied
average monthly gross receipts)      by 0.005 (Example
                                     $98,525.00x0.005=$492.63)
 
   (D)   In the event any business, under this section, consists entirely of
sales at wholesale for purposes of resale to ultimate consumers, the license
fee for such complete wholesale business shall be one-half (1/2) of the fee
provided in subsection (C) of this section, but in no event less than thirty
dollars ($30.00) per year. In the event any licensee operates both a retail and
wholesale business at the same premises, the licensee may, at his option,
segregate the wholesale from the retail business and obtain a license for each
type of business. Upon failure of the licensee to so segregate, the business
shall be licensed in accord with the full schedule of fees set forth in
subsection (C) of this section.
   (E)   In the event any business combines both sales of goods or personal
property and the rendering of services, the term "monthly receipts" shall
include receipts for both sales and services, whether they shall be charged for
separately or as a unit price.
   (F)   No license is required of any person employed solely for wages by any
person, firm or corporation in the furtherance of a business regularly licensed
by the city.
   (G)   This section shall include, but not be limited to, the following
businesses or any combination thereof:
Accountant, certified public.
Agent, real estate, all others.
Airplane renting, sales or service.
Anesthetist.
Architect.
Assayer.
Attorney.
Auction house.
Auditor.
Automotive sales and service.
Bar and/or cocktail lounge.
Barbershop.
Beauty shop.
Blacksmith.
Bookkeeping and accounting.
Broker, real estate, insurance.
Carpenter.
Chemists.
Chiropodist.
Chiropractor.
Cleaning and/or dyeing.
Confectionery wagons.
Contractors (classification A, B, and C), all builders.
Dental lab (technician).
Dentist, orthodontist.
Designer, structural or building.
Draftsman.
Electrician.
Engineer, registered.
Equipment lease or rental.
Foundry.
Garage.
Geologist.
Gymnasium.
Ice plant.
Itinerant photographer.
Laundry.
Machine shop.
Manufacturer.
Mechanic.
Medical lab or technician.
Mortgage companies.
Oculist, optician, optometrists.
Painter.
Pay or subscription television.
Pharmacy.
Photographer and/or photographic studio.
Physician, surgeon, psychiatrist.
Physiotherapist.
Plumber.
Printing and publishing.
Private detective.
Psychologist.
Repairman.
Restaurant and/or dining room, coffee shop, lunch room, stand or lunch counter.
Retail and/or wholesale merchant.
Service station.
Shoe repairing.
Soda fountain.
Stockyard.
Surveyors, licensed land.
Television cable relay systems.
Travel bureau/ticket agency.
Veterinarian.
Warehouse.
Welder.
The rendering of any service whatsoever.
The rendering of any service or carrying on of any business not provided
elsewhere in chapters 1 through 20 of this title, or any other ordinance. (Ord.
794-12, 11-20-2012)
4-2-30: EFFECTIVE DATE:
This ordinance shall take effect immediately upon its adoption pursuant to
section 36937(d), California Government Code as an ordinance relating to taxes
for the usual and current expenses of the city.
Within fifteen (15) days following its adoption, the city clerk of the city
shall cause this ordinance to be published once in its entirety in the "Daily
Midway Driller", a newspaper of general circulation, printed, published and
circulated in the city, together with the names of council members voting for
and against the same. (Ord. 623-95, 1-10-1995)
CHAPTER 3
AUCTIONS
SECTION:
4-3-1: Definitions
4-3-2: Conduct Of Auction
4-3-3: Application For License
4-3-4: License Fee
4-3-5: Bond
4-3-6: Posting Of License
4-3-7: Exemptions
4-3-1: DEFINITIONS:
AUCTION: Any sale of property by public outcry to the highest bidder.
AUCTIONEER: Any person who conducts an auction. (Ord. 335, 1-15-1968)
4-3-2: CONDUCT OF AUCTION:
It shall be unlawful for any person to sell, offer for sale, or expose for sale
by auction any property of any kind except pursuant to the provisions of this
Chapter. Any person violating any provisions of this Chapter shall be
punishable by a fine not to exceed five hundred dollars ($500.00), or by
imprisonment for a period not to exceed six (6) months, or by both such fine
and imprisonment. (Ord. 335, 1-15-1968)
4-3-3: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
Any person desiring to conduct an auction within the City shall secure a
license therefor from the Clerk. Application for such license shall be filed
not less than seven (7) days prior to the opening date of such proposed
auction. The application for such license shall give the name and address of
the person desiring the license, the name and address of the person proposed to
act as auctioneer, the name and address of the legal owner(s) of the property
to be offered for sale at such auction, and a complete and full description of
all property to be offered for sale at such auction, including the wholesale
cost of each item and whether it is new or used and shall clearly state a list
by number of lot each and every item proposed to be offered for sale at such
auction. (Ord. 335, 1-15-1968)
4-3-4: LICENSE FEE:
For the business of conducting an auction, or acting as an auctioneer, the
license fee shall be thirty dollars ($30.00) semi-annually; provided, that if
the person by whom the auctioneering is done is an itinerant vendor of goods or
property, temporarily located in the City, the license fee shall be fifteen
dollars ($15.00) per day, or part thereof, during which such auction is
conducted; provided, further, that no license fee shall be required of any
person selling his own property at his regular, established or fixed place of
business, and such person or a bona fide member of the firm or corporation
owning such business shall act in the capacity of the auctioneer. (Ord. 335, 1-
15-1968)
4-3-5: BOND:
No license for the conduct of an auction shall be issued unless the applicant
files with the Clerk cash or a corporate surety bond in the amount of two
thousand five hundred dollars ($2,500.00), conditioned on the faithful
performance of all provisions of this Chapter and all other applicable
provisions of the City Code, Kern County Ordinances and the laws of the State
of California. Said cash or corporate surety bond shall also indemnify any
purchaser at such auction who suffers any loss by reason of any
misrepresentation or deception made or practiced by the auctioneer or licensee,
or their agents, servants or employees, either at the time of said auction or
through any advertisement or statement made in connection with said auction.
(Ord. 335, 1-15-1968)
4-3-6: POSTING OF LICENSE:
The license issued to conduct any auction shall be posted prominently at the
location of such auction at all times during the conducting thereof, and shall
be shown to anyone requesting to look at such license. (Ord. 335, 1-15-1968)
4-3-7: EXEMPTIONS:
Nothing contained in this Chapter shall apply to the following:
   (A)   Judicial sales or sales made upon execution or by virtue of any
proceedings issued by a State or Federal Court.
   (B)   Sales by executors or administrators.
   (C)   Sales made by a public officer in his official capacity or sales of
property belonging to the United States or to this State or any political
subdivision thereof.
   (D)   Sales by any person of his own goods, wares or merchandise at his own
private residence where such property has been used as a part of the
furnishings of such residence.
   (E)   Sales of livestock.
   (F)   Sales by any religious, civic or social organization where the sale is
for charitable purposes and the Council has specifically authorized such
exemption. (Ord. 335, 1-15-1968)
CHAPTER 4
COIN-OPERATED MACHINES
   (Rep. by Ord. 635-95, 8-15-1995)
CHAPTER 5
CLOSING-OUT SALES
SECTION:
4-5-1: Permit Required; Application Requirements; Fee; Issuance
4-5-2: Permit; Application Endorsed With Date Of Filing And Kept As Record
4-5-3: Permit; Application Containing False Statements
4-5-4: Only Goods Described In Application Covered By Permit
4-5-5: Ordering New Goods In Contemplation Of Sale Unlawful
4-5-6: Adding Merchandise During Sale Unlawful
4-5-7: Advertising
4-5-8: Liability Of Advertisement Publishers
4-5-9: Exemptions
4-5-10: Violation; Penalty
4-5-1: PERMIT REQUIRED; APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS; FEE; ISSUANCE:
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to advertise, represent or hold out that
any sale of goods, wares and merchandise is an insurance, bankruptcy,
liquidation, mortgage, insolvent's, assignee's, executor's, administrator's,
receiver's, removal or closing-out sale, or any particular department of such
stock of goods, wares and merchandise, under the guise of discontinuing that
particular department, or a sale of goods, wares and merchandise damaged by
fire, smoke, water or otherwise, or a sale of goods from the stock of a
bankrupt, receiver, trustee, insurance company, receivership or trusteeship, or
to conduct such a sale, unless he has first obtained a permit to conduct such a
sale from the City Manager of the City.
   (B)   For the purpose of this Chapter, "person" includes corporation,
partnership, firm and association.
   (C)   The City Manager, or any other City officer designated by the City
Manager, shall at all times have the power and it shall be his duty to make
examination or investigation of the business and the books, records and
accounts, and other papers pertaining thereto, of any company or individual
theretofore permitted or authorized to conduct such sales.
   (D)   The applicant for such a permit shall make application therefor to the
City Manager of the City, and at the time of such application shall pay a
minimum filing fee of ten dollars ($10.00), plus additional fees based upon the
length of time the business operated as follows:
      1.   A period of six (6) months or less prior to the date of the
application is filed, two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) plus ten percent
(10%) of gross sales.
      2.   More than six (6) months, but less than two (2) years, twenty five
dollars ($25.00) plus three percent (3%) gross sales.
      3.   More than two (2) years, five dollars ($5.00).
   (E)   Said application must be in writing and under oath, showing all the
facts in regard to the insurance, bankruptcy, liquidation, mortgaging,
insolvency, assignment, administration, receivership, trusteeship, or removal
by reason of which such sale of goods, wares or merchandise, by fire, smoke,
water or otherwise, and showing all the facts in regard to the sale which he
proposes to conduct and the place and manner of conducting the same, including
an inventory of the goods, wares and merchandise to be sold at such sale, and a
statement of the names of the persons from whom the goods, wares and
merchandise so to be sold were obtained, the date of the delivery of such
goods, wares and merchandise to the person applying for the permit, and the
place from which said goods, wares and merchandise were last taken and all
details necessary to fully identify the goods, wares and merchandise so to be
sold. Such application shall specify the proposed period of time over which
such sales shall continue, which period shall not exceed three (3) months.
   (F)   The City Manager shall not grant any permit under this Chapter until
the application therefor has been referred to the Chief of Police for his
investigation and report thereon; provided, that it shall be made to appear
upon sworn application to the City Manager at any time during said period of
three (3) months, that all of the goods, wares and merchandise described and
inventoried in the original application have not been sold, accompanied by a
statement or inventory of what remains thereof, a permit supplemental to the
one provided for in this Chapter may be issued by said City Manager upon the
same terms and conditions as said original permit granting authority to
continue such sale for a further period of three (3) months. Such original
application shall also specify the type of sale the applicant proposes to
advertise or conduct.
   (G)   If the City manager is satisfied that said proposed sale is of the
character represented by the applicant and that neither the applicant nor any
of its officers, directors or members have violated this Chapter, a revokable
permit shall be issued to the person applying for the same, authorizing the
advertising and conduct of a sale of the particular kind mentioned in the
application, in accordance with the requirements of this Chapter. (Ord. 549,
1987)
4-5-2: PERMIT; APPLICATION ENDORSED WITH DATE OF FILING AND KEPT AS RECORD:
The City Manager of the City shall endorse upon such application the date of
its filing, and shall preserve the same as a record. (Ord. 549, 1987)
4-5-3: PERMIT; APPLICATION CONTAINING FALSE STATEMENTS:
Any person making a false statement in the application provided for in Section
4-5-1 of this Chapter shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, punishable by a
fine not to exceed five hundred dollars ($500.00) or by imprisonment in the
County jail for a period not to exceed six (6) months, or by both such fine and
imprisonment. (Ord. 549, 1987)
4-5-4: ONLY GOODS DESCRIBED IN APPLICATION COVERED BY PERMIT:
The permit as provided for in Section
4-5-1 of this Chapter shall be valid only for a sale of the goods, wares and
merchandise inventoried and described in the application for such permit, in
the manner and at the time and place mentioned and set forth in such
application, and any removal of such goods, wares and merchandise so
inventoried and described in such application from the place of sale mentioned
in such application, shall cause such goods, wares and merchandise to lose
their identity as an insurance, bankrupt, liquidation, mortgaged, insolvent's,
assignee's, executor's, administrator's, receiver's or trustee's stock of
goods, wares and merchandise damaged by fire, smoke or water or otherwise, and
no permit will thereafter be issued for the conducting of a sale of any of such
goods, wares or merchandise so removed from the place set forth and described
in such application, under the provisions of this Chapter, at any other place
or places. (Ord. 549, 1987)
4-5-5: ORDERING NEW GOODS IN CONTEMPLATION OF SALE UNLAWFUL:
   (A)   No person in contemplation of conducting an insurance, bankrupt,
liquidation, mortgage, insolvent's, assignee's, executor's, administrator's,
receiver's or trustee's removal or closing-out sale, or a sale of goods, wares
or merchandise damaged by fire, smoke, water or otherwise, or a sale of goods
from the stock of a bankrupt, receiver, trustee, insurance company,
receivership or trusteeship, under a permit as provided in Section
4-5-1 of this Chapter shall order any goods, wares or merchandise for the
purpose of selling and disposing of the same as such sale.
   (B)   The City Manager, if he determines that any unusual purchases and
additions to the stock of such goods, wares or merchandise have been made
within sixty (60) days prior to the filing of the application for a permit to
conduct such sale mentioned in Section
4-5-1 shall refuse to issue the permit applied for under the provisions of this
Chapter. (Ord. 549, 1987)
4-5-6: ADDING MERCHANDISE DURING SALE UNLAWFUL:
It is unlawful for any person carrying on or conducting an insurance, bankrupt,
liquidation, mortgage, insolvent, assignee's, executor's, administrator's,
receiver's or trustee's removal or closing-out sale, or sale of goods, wares or
merchandise damaged by fire, smoke, water or otherwise, or a sale of goods from
the stock of a bankrupt, receiver, trustee, insurance company, receivership or
trusteeship, under a permit as provided in Section
4-5-1 of this Chapter to add, during the continuance of such sale, any goods,
wares or merchandise for the purpose of selling the same, to the stock of
goods, wares or merchandise described and inventoried in his original
application for such permit, and no goods, wares or merchandise shall be sold
at, or during such sale, excepting the goods, wares or merchandise described
and inventoried in such original application, and each and every addition of
goods, wares and merchandise for the purpose of sale to such stock of goods,
wares and merchandise described and inventoried in said application, and each
sale of such goods, wares or merchandise as were not inventoried and described
in said application, shall constitute a separate offense under this Chapter.
(Ord. 549, 1987)
4-5-7: ADVERTISING:
It is unlawful for any person to advertise, represent or hold out any sale of
goods, wares or merchandise to be an insurance, bankrupt, liquidation,
mortgage, insolvent's, assignee's, executor's, administrator's, receiver's, or
trustee's removal or closing out sale, or a sale of goods, wares or merchandise
damaged by fire, water, smoke or otherwise, or a sale of goods from the stock
of a bankrupt, receiver, trustee, insurance company, receivership or
trusteeship, without first complying with the provisions of this chapter. (Ord.
549, 1987)
4-5-8: LIABILITY OF ADVERTISEMENT PUBLISHERS:
Nothing contained in this chapter shall be deemed to apply to any publisher of
a newspaper, magazine or other publication, who publishes said advertisement in
good faith, without knowledge of its false, deceptive or misleading character,
or without knowledge that the provisions of this chapter have not been complied
with. (Ord. 549, 1987)
4-5-9: EXEMPTIONS:
The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to sheriffs, constables, or to
other public or court officers, or to any other person or persons acting upon
the license, direction or authority of any court, state or federal, selling
goods, wares or merchandise in the course of their official duties, and
pursuant to the provisions of a statute authorizing such sale. (Ord. 549, 1987)
4-5-10: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Any person who holds, conducts or carries on any sale of goods, wares or
merchandise as an insurance, bankrupt, mortgage, insolvent's, assignee's,
executor's, administrator's, receiver's or trustee's removal or closing out
sale, or sale of goods, wares or merchandise damaged by fire, water or
otherwise, or a sale of goods from the stock of a bankrupt, receiver, trustee,
insurance company, receivership or trusteeship, contrary to the provisions of
this chapter, or whose advertising, statement, representation or assertion is
false or untrue, in any respect, or which by the exercise of reasonable care
should be known to be false or untrue, deceptive or misleading, or who violates
any of the provisions of this chapter, shall be deemed guilty of an infraction,
and shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined in a sum of not less than fifty
dollars ($50.00), and not more than two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00). (Ord.
694-02, 8-20-2002)
CHAPTER 6
PUBLIC DANCES AND DANCEHALLS
SECTION:
4-6-1: Definitions
4-6-2: Permits Required
4-6-3: Permit To Conduct Dancehall; Application; Form
4-6-4: Permit To Conduct Dancehall; Application; Investigation And
Recommendation
4-6-5: Permit To Conduct Public Dance; Application; Form
4-6-6: Permit Revocation
4-6-7: Permit Reissuance After Revocation
4-6-8: Permit Expiration; Not Assignable; Renewal
4-6-9: License Fee Required
4-6-10: Conduct At Dances
4-6-11: Agreement As To Compliance With Existing And Future Provisions
4-6-12: Permitting Persons Under Sixteen Years To Attend Dance
4-6-13: Inapplicability Of Section
4-6-2
4-6-14: Closing Hours
4-6-15: Prostitutes, Procurers And Vagrants Prohibited
4-6-16: Responsibility For Good Order
4-6-17: Passout Or Return Checks
4-6-18: Violation; Penalty
4-6-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this Chapter the following words and phrases shall have the
meaning as in this Section set forth:
KNOWN: When used in connection with the words "prostitute" or "male or female
procurer" or "vagrant" means and includes known to the manager, owner or lessee
of the dancehall, or to the person conducting a dance, or to the police or
other authorities having to do with the regulations or supervision of public
dancehalls, or public dances, to be one of the persons named, or who has such
reputation or character, or one who has pleaded guilty to or had been convicted
of being a prostitute, male or female procurer, or vagrant.
PUBLIC DANCE: Any dance to which the public generally may gain admission with
the payment of a fee, but does not include dancing in a regularly licensed
establishment where dancing is incidental to the business for which the license
was issued, and where the dance does not continue past two o'clock (2:00) A.M.
PUBLIC DANCEHALL: Means and includes any room, place or space in which a
"public dance" as defined in this Section is conducted. (Ord. 549, 1987)
4-6-2: PERMITS REQUIRED:
It is unlawful to hold or conduct any "public dance" as defined in Section
4-6-1 of this Chapter or maintain, operate or conduct a "public dancehall" as
defined in Section
4-6-1 in any public dancehall within the limits of the City, until the person
owning or conducting the dancehall, or other place in which the same may be
held, has first obtained a written permit therefor as provided in this Chapter.
(Ord. 549, 1987)
4-6-3: PERMIT TO CONDUCT DANCEHALL; APPLICATION; FORM:
Applications for a permit to keep and conduct a public dancehall shall be on
forms supplied by the City Clerk and shall be substantially as follows:
   APPLICATION FOR PERMIT TO
   CONDUCT A PUBLIC DANCEHALL
                      , 19    
The undersigned hereby makes application for a permit to keep and conduct a
public dancehall at                                , in the City of Taft, State
of California, from date of issuance of permit to and including
                     , 19       . It is hereby expressly agreed that in the
event that this permit shall be issued that said dancehall shall be conducted
in strict accord with the provisions of law regulating public dancehalls, and
the undersigned agrees that the permit is given and accepted subject to the
provisions of this application and that he shall be held responsible for
violation of any provisions of law or ordinance regulating public dancehalls.
There are               square feet of dancing space in said hall.
The undersigned is the proprietor of the hall located at the above address, in
which hall an application for keeping and conducting a public dancehall is
hereby made.
   Signature of Applicant
   Post Office Address of Applicant
(Ord. 549, 1987)
4-6-4: PERMIT TO CONDUCT DANCEHALL; APPLICATION; INVESTIGATION AND
RECOMMENDATION:
Upon receiving such application the City Manager shall refer the same to the
Chief of Police, Chief Building Inspector and the Director of Planning for a
report and recommendations covering the following subjects:
   (A)   Moral character of operator and/or applicant;
   (B)   Suitability of location for the premises in respect to the
neighborhood;
   (C)   Compliance of the premises with all laws, ordinances and health and
fire regulations;
   (D)   Suitability of operation in respect to activities conducted on the
premises or related thereto and whether the general welfare and convenience is
affected by the issuance of a permit to operate the public dance. (Ord. 549,
1987)
4-6-5: PERMIT TO CONDUCT PUBLIC DANCE; APPLICATION; FORM:
Application for a permit to conduct a "public dance" as defined in Section
4-6-1 shall be upon forms supplied by the City Clerk and shall be substantially
as follows:
   APPLICATION FOR PERMIT TO
   CONDUCT A PUBLIC DANCE
                      , 19    
The undersigned hereby makes application for a permit to give a public dance at
                                             , in the City of Taft from the
date of issuance of this permit to and including the                 day of
          , 19. It is hereby expressly agreed that said dance shall be
conducted in strict accord with the provisions of law regulating public dances,
and the undersigned agrees that the permit is given and accepted subject to the
provisions of this application and that he shall be held responsible for any
violation of any provisions of law or ordinance regulating any public dance.
The owner or lessee of the premises in which such dances are to be held is:
   (Name)
   (Occupation)
   (Street)
(Name)    
(Address)    
(Ord. 549, 1987)
4-6-6: PERMIT REVOCATION:
All permits provided for in this Chapter shall be granted and accepted with the
express understanding and agreement that the Council of the City may revoke the
same at any time if any of the terms or conditions of same have been violated
or if the same was obtained by fraudulent representations, or it is shown to
the satisfaction of said Council that said dance or place is conducted in an
unlawful manner, or that same is detrimental to the social peace or public
morals of the community; provided, however, that the holder of said permit may
appear before the Council in his own behalf, but the Council shall be the judge
of the sufficiency of the charges or of what is detrimental to the social peace
or public morals and the decision of said Council thereon shall be final and
conclusive. (Ord. 549, 1987)
4-6-7: PERMIT REISSUANCE AFTER REVOCATION:
If at any time the permit for a public dance hall is revoked for a violation of
the provisions of this chapter, then in that event at least three (3) months
shall elapse before another permit is granted to the manager, owner or lessee
of such premises. (Ord. 549, 1987)
4-6-8: PERMIT EXPIRATION; NOT ASSIGNABLE; RENEWAL:
(A) All permits granted under this chapter shall be good until the time in said
permit specified not exceeding one year. The same shall not be assignable.
(B) If the permits as provided for in this chapter are revoked by the council,
no new permit shall be granted to such person, or to any person who was an
agent or employee of such person at the time of any violation of this chapter,
or at the time of the application for a new permit. (Ord. 549, 1987)
4-6-9: LICENSE FEE REQUIRED:
It is unlawful to maintain or conduct any public dance without paying therefor
for a license fee. (Ord. 549, 1987)
4-6-10: CONDUCT AT DANCES:
Except as provided herein, it is unlawful for any person to whom a public dance
or public dance hall permit is issued, or for any person who is conducting a
public dance or public dance hall under permit from the city, or any person who
is conducting a public dance within the city to allow any alcoholic liquor to
be sold or brought onto the premises where the dance is in progress or allow or
permit any person under the influence of liquor to remain at the dance.
Notwithstanding the foregoing provision, alcoholic liquor may be sold and
consumed in any room or on the premises where a dance is in progress under the
following circumstances:
   (A) No person under the age of twenty one (21) is permitted to enter the
dance.
   (B) Alcoholic beverages purchased at the dance must be consumed within the
building where the dance is being conducted.
   (C) One licensed security guard shall be stationed outside of the premises
where the dance is being conducted.
   (D) There shall be a minimum of three (3) licensed security guards inside
the premises for up to three hundred fifty (350) persons in attendance at the
public dance. Therefore, there shall be an additional security guard added for
each one hundred fifty (150) persons (or any number of persons constituting
part of the additional 150 persons). (Ord. 549, 1987)
4-6-11: AGREEMENT AS TO COMPLIANCE WITH EXISTING AND FUTURE PROVISIONS:
All permits as provided in this chapter shall be granted and accepted upon the
further understanding and agreement that all the terms, provisions and
regulations contained in this chapter as the same now is or may hereafter be
amended, shall be fully complied with. (Ord. 549, 1987)
4-6-12: PERMITTING PERSONS UNDER SIXTEEN YEARS TO ATTEND DANCE:
   (A) It is unlawful to permit any person who has not reached the age of
sixteen (16) years to attend or remain at any public dance unless such person
is accompanied by the parent or legal guardian of such person.
   (B) It is unlawful for any person to represent himself or herself to have
reached the age of sixteen (16) years in order to attend or remain at any
public dance when such person in fact is under sixteen (16) years of age, and
it is unlawful for any person to falsely represent himself or herself to be a
parent or legal guardian of any person in order that such person may attend or
remain at any public dance.
   (C) The fact that a person under the age of sixteen (16) years secured
admission to any such dance hall under false representations as to age, or
false representation that he or she was accompanied by a parent or guardian,
shall be no defense to the person holding such person in prosecution for
violation of this chapter nor than such person was admitted by an employee.
(Ord. 549, 1987)
4-6-13: INAPPLICABILITY OF SECTION 4-6-2:
Section
4-6-2 of this chapter shall be inapplicable to any public dance operated by a
nonprofit, charitable, philanthropic, social service, benevolent, educational,
civil or religious organization. (Ord. 549, 1987)
4-6-14: CLOSING HOURS:
All public dances and dancing in establishments in which dancing is incidental
to the business shall be stopped and discontinued and all public dance halls
shall be closed at two o'clock (2:00) A.M. except when a special permit to
continue beyond such time has been granted by the chief of police. (Ord. 549,
1987)
4-6-15: PROSTITUTES, PROCURERS AND VAGRANTS PROHIBITED:
It is unlawful for any known prostitute, male or female procurer, or vagrant,
to be present at any public dance or any public dance hall. (Ord. 549, 1987)
4-6-16: RESPONSIBILITY FOR GOOD ORDER:
   (A) It is the responsibility of the permittee to maintain peace and good
order at all public dances.
   (B) The police chief is authorized to suspend the permit provided for in
this chapter and close the public dance for a period of not more than two (2)
weeks whenever he determines that the permittee has failed to maintain peace
and good order and that an emergency exists as a result of such failure.
   (C) For the purpose of maintaining peace and good order at public dances,
the permittee may hire private patrol operators or security guards who are
licensed by the state. (Ord. 549, 1987)
4-6-17: PASS OUT OR RETURN CHECKS:
Upon the recommendation of the chief of police, the city manager may require
the operator of any public dance or public dance hall to prohibit pass out or
return checks to the patrons leaving the dance hall or its anterooms. (Ord.
549, 1987)
4-6-18: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Any person, firm, association or corporation who violates, causes, permits or
allows the violation of any of the provisions of this chapter or who fails to
comply with any of the terms, requirements or provisions contained in this
chapter, shall be guilty of an infraction. (Ord. 694-02, 8-20-2002)
CHAPTER 7
MOBILE VENDING PROHIBITED
SECTION:
4-7-1: Declaration Of Policy
4-7-2: Definitions
4-7-3: Applicability
4-7-4: Mobile Vending Prohibited; Public Nuisance
4-7-5: Violations And Penalties
4-7-1: DECLARATION OF POLICY:
It is the City's responsibility to promote the health, peace, safety, welfare
and convenience of all persons in regard to their use and enjoyment of public
lands. The City Council finds it necessary to prohibit the use of vehicles for
vending for this purpose while ensuring that all such regulations comport with
applicable law. (Ord. 852-23, 7-18-2023)
4-7-2: DEFINITIONS:
The following definitions apply to this chapter:
 
                   A motorized vehicle or mobile food unit that should be
                   licensed by the Department of California Department of Motor
MOBILE FOOD TRUCK: Vehicles (whether licensed or not), designed and equipped to
                   prepare, or serve, and sell food, and temporarily stored in
                   a location where food items are sold to the general public.
                   A park, playground, recreation center, tennis courts,
                   swimming facilities, sports field, ball field and/or open
                   space or other area, structure or facility, owned or used by
                   the City and devoted to active or passive recreation, or
PARK:              open for or dedicated to public use within the City of Taft,
                   including, without limitation, those constructed, adapted,
                   or designated as such after adoption of this chapter, and
                   including, but not limited to, that area commonly referred
                   to as "rails to trails" or similar description.
                   Shall mean and include, without limitation, streets, roads,
                   highways, alleys, sidewalks, parkways, bridges, culverts,
PUBLIC STREET:     drains, and all other facilities and areas necessary for the
                   construction, improvement and maintenance of streets and
                   roads.
                   Any device by which any person or property may be propelled,
                   moved or drawn upon a street, highway, off road or in the
VEHICLE:           water or through the air, including, but not limited to
                   cars, trucks, airplanes, motor homes, recreational vehicles,
                   trailers, watercraft (on or off its hauler) except a device
                   intended to be moved exclusively by human power.
                   To sell, offer for sale, display for sale, or solicit offers
VEND OR VENDING:   to purchase food or merchandise, wares, or services. (Ord.
                   852-23, 7-18-2023)
 
4-7-3: APPLICABILITY:
This chapter is intended to apply to all mobile food truck and vehicle vending
at any locations within the City. However, it does not apply in the following
circumstances:
   (A)   Sidewalk vending described in chapter 22 of title IV of the Taft
Municipal Code if all legal requirements therein are met.
   (B)   Contractual or other private arrangement between a mobile food truck
and an individual or group that wishes to have food catered to a specific
location on private land and which is not open to the public. (Ord. 852-23, 7-
18-2023)
4-7-4: MOBILE VENDING PROHIBITED; PUBLIC NUISANCE:
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person or entity to operate, or allow the
operation of, a mobile food truck or vehicle for vending on land within City
limits. This prohibition applies to both a person or entity owning or otherwise
responsible for the mobile food truck or vehicle and a person or entity owning
or otherwise responsible for the land upon which the mobile food truck or
vehicle is situated. In no event does this section create liability on part of
the City for public lands.
   (B)   Violation of this section is deemed a public nuisance. (Ord. 852-23,
7-18-2023)
4-7-5: VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES:
   (A)   A violation of this chapter is punishable as a misdemeanor or
chargeable at the district attorney's or city prosecutor's discretion.
   (B)   This chapter may also be enforced by Peace Officers of the City of
Taft and by the City of Taft employees specified in section
1-1-12 of title I. The enforcement officials provided herein may deem the
violation an infraction in their discretion when enforcing this chapter.
   (C)   Each day in which a violation of this chapter occurs or continues
shall constitute a separate and distinct offense and a continuing nuisance. The
City may enforce any violation of this chapter pursuant to the nuisance
abatement procedures described in chapter 4 of title III of the Taft Municipal
Code.
   (D)   The remedies provided herein are intended to be cumulative and may be
utilized in conjunction with or in lieu of other remedies provided by law.
Nothing in this section shall be construed to affect, supersede, or otherwise
prevent enforcement of provisions under other provisions of the Taft Municipal
Code, California State Law, or other law enforceable by the City or to prevent
the City from commencing administrative, civil, or criminal proceedings for
nuisance abatement, injunctive relief, or other methods of enforcement
available under law. (Ord. 852-23, 7-18-2023)
CHAPTER 8
SECONDHAND DEALERS AND PAWNBROKERS
SECTION:
4-8-1: General Application
4-8-2: Compliance With State Law
4-8-3: License Fee Required
4-8-1: GENERAL APPLICATION:
The provisions of this Chapter apply to each person, copartnership, firm and
corporation whose activities fall within the definition of "secondhand dealer"
set forth in section 21626 of the California Business and Professions Code.
(Ord. 2669 section 1, 1981; prior code section 7.18.010)
4-8-2: COMPLIANCE WITH STATE LAW:
Each person, copartnership, firm and corporation to whom this Chapter applies
shall conduct each business transaction as a secondhand dealer in strict
compliance with the requirements of State law, specifically including (but not
limited to) Articles 3, 4 and 5 of chapter 9 of division 8 of the California
Business and Professions Code. (Ord. 2669 section 2, 1981; prior code section
7.18.020)
4-8-3: LICENSE FEE REQUIRED:
Each secondhand dealer shall pay a license fee as set forth in Section
4-2-28 of this Code. (Ord. 549, 1987)
CHAPTER 9
PEDDLERS
SECTION:
4-9-1: Nuisance Declared
4-9-1: NUISANCE DECLARED:
The practice of going in and upon private residences in the city by solicitors,
peddlers, hawkers, itinerant merchants, and transient vendors of merchandise,
not having been requested or invited so to do by the owner or owners, occupant
or occupants of the private residence for the purpose of soliciting orders for
the sale of goods, wares and merchandise and/or for the purpose of disposing of
and/or peddling or hawking the same, is hereby declared to be a nuisance, and
punishable as such nuisance as an infraction.
The chief of police and police force are hereby required and directed to
suppress the same, and to abate any such nuisance as is described in this
section. (Ord. 694-02, 8-20-2002)
CHAPTER 10
TRANSIENT OCCUPANCY TAX
SECTION:
4-10-1: Title
4-10-2: Definitions
4-10-3: Tax Imposed
4-10-4: Operator's Collection Duties
4-10-5: Business License
4-10-6: Reporting And Remitting
4-10-7: Penalties And Interest - License Cancellation
4-10-8: Failure To Collect And Report Tax - Determination Of Tax By Tax
Administrator - Application For Hearing
4-10-9: Appeal
4-10-10: Records
4-10-11: Refunds
4-10-12: Actions To Collect
4-10-13: Duty And Liability Of Operator's Successor
4-10-14: Rules And Regulations - Interpretation
4-10-15: Effective Date
4-10-1: TITLE:
This Chapter shall be known as the UNIFORM TRANSIENT OCCUPANCY TAX ORDINANCE of
the City of Taft. (Ord. 615, 5-17-1994)
4-10-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this Chapter, the following words shall have the meanings
set forth in this Section:
OCCUPANCY: The use or possession or the right to the use or possession of any
portion of any transient occupancy facility for sleeping, lodging, dwelling or
similar purposes.
OPERATOR: Any person, corporation, entity or partnership which is the
proprietor of the hotel, whether in the capacity of owner, lessee, sublessee,
mortgagee in possession, debtor in possession, licensee or any other capacity.
Where the operator performs its functions through a managing agent of any type
or character other than as an employee, the managing agent shall also be deemed
an operator and shall have the same duties and liabilities as its principal.
For purposes of the notice and appeal provisions of this Chapter only,
"operator" also means and includes any managing employee or employee in charge
of the hotel.
RENT: The consideration charged, whether or not received, for the occupancy of
space in a hotel, valued in money, whether to be received in money, goods,
labor or otherwise, including all receipts, cash, credits and property and
services of any kind or nature, without any deduction therefrom whatsoever.
TAX: All taxes, interest and penalties due on the return.
TAX ADMINISTRATOR: The tax and license collector of the City.
TRANSIENT: Any person who exercises occupancy or is entitled to exercise
occupancy, whether by agreement (oral or written), concession, permit, right of
access, license, contract, payment of rent or similar entitlement, for a period
of thirty (30) consecutive calendar days or less, counting portions of calendar
days as full days. Any person so occupying space in a transient occupancy
facility shall be deemed to be a transient until the period of thirty (30) days
has expired, and there is a lease agreement or month-to-month rental agreement
in writing between the operator and the transient, providing for a period of
occupancy in excess of thirty (30) days. In determining whether a person is a
transient, uninterrupted periods of time extending both prior and subsequent to
the effective date of the ordinance codified in this Chapter may be considered.
TRANSIENT OCCUPANCY FACILITY: Any structure, or portion of any structure, which
is occupied or intended or designed for occupancy by transients for lodging or
sleeping purposes in conformance with the City's zoning regulations and
including but not limited to any hotel, inn, tourist home or house, motel,
studio hotel, bachelor hotel or other similar structure or portion thereof, and
shall further include any space, lot, area or site in any trailer court, camp,
park or lot which is occupied or intended or designed for occupancy by a tent,
trailer, recreational vehicle, mobilehome, motorhome, or other similar
conveyance, for dwelling, lodging or sleeping purposes. (Ord. 615, 5-17-1994)
4-10-3: TAX IMPOSED:
Effective October 1, 1995, for the privilege of occupancy in any hotel, each
transient is subject to and shall pay a tax in the amount of ten percent (10%)
of the rent charged by the operator. This tax constitutes a debt owed by the
transient to the City which is extinguished only by payment to the operator at
the time the rent is paid. If the rent is paid in installments, a proportionate
share of the tax shall be paid with each installment. The unpaid tax shall be
due upon the transient's ceasing to occupy space in the hotel. (Ord. 636-95, 8-
15-1995, eff. 10-1-1995)
4-10-4: OPERATOR'S COLLECTION DUTIES:
Each operator shall collect the tax imposed by this Chapter to the same extent
and at the same time as the rent is collected from every transient. The amount
of the rent and the tax thereon shall be separately stated from all other
amounts on all receipts and books of record of the hotel, and each transient
shall be tendered a receipt for payment from the operator with rent and tax
separately stated thereon. No operator of a hotel shall advertise or state in
any manner, whether directly or indirectly, that the tax or any part thereof
will be assumed or absorbed by the operator, or that it will not be added to
the rent, or that, if added, any part will be refunded except in the manner
provided in this Chapter. (Ord. 615, 5-17-1994)
4-10-5: BUSINESS LICENSE:
Each operator of a transient occupancy facility shall obtain a business license
prior to commencing business. This license does not authorize any person to
conduct any unlawful business or to conduct any lawful business in an unlawful
manner, nor to operate a hotel without strictly complying with all local
applicable laws, including but not limited to those requiring a permit from any
board, commission, department or office of this City. (Ord. 615, 5-17-1994)
4-10-6: REPORTING AND REMITTING:
Each operator shall, on or before the last day of the month following the close
of each calendar quarter, make a return to the Tax Administrator, on forms
provided by him, of the total rents charged and received and the amount of tax
collected for transient occupancies. At the time the return is filed, the full
amount of the tax collected shall be remitted to the Tax Administrator. The Tax
Administrator may establish shorter reporting periods for any business license
holder if he deems it necessary in order to insure collection of the tax and he
may require further information in the return. Returns and payments are due
immediately upon cessation of business for any reason. All taxes collected by
operators pursuant to this Chapter shall be held in trust for the account of
the City until payment thereof is made to the Tax Administrator. (Ord. 615, 5-
17-1994)
4-10-7: PENALTIES AND INTEREST - LICENSE CANCELLATION:
   (A)   Original Delinquency: Any operator who fails to remit any tax imposed
by this Chapter within the time required shall pay a penalty of ten dollars
($10.00), or ten percent (10%) of the amount of the tax, whichever dollar
amount is greater, in addition to the amount of the tax.
   (B)   Continued Delinquency: Any operator who fails to remit any delinquent
remittance on or before a period of thirty (30) days following the date on
which the remittance first became delinquent, shall pay a second delinquency
penalty of ten dollars ($10.00) or ten percent (10%) of the amount of the tax,
whichever dollar amount is greater, in addition to the amount of the tax and
the first penalty imposed.
   (C)   Interest: In addition to the penalties imposed, any operator who fails
to remit any tax imposed by this Chapter shall pay interest at the rate of one
and one-half percent (11/2%) per month or fraction thereof on the amount of the
tax, exclusive of penalties, from the date on which the remittance first became
delinquent until paid. In the event of payment of the tax and nonpayment of
interest or penalties, interest at the rate set in this Section shall accrue
upon the amount of the unpaid interest and penalty until date of payment.
   (D)   License Cancellation: If the tax, penalties and interest are not paid
within sixty (60) days from the date on which the tax became delinquent, the
Tax Administrator shall give written notice to the operator in whose name the
business license was issued of his intention to cancel the license after
fifteen (15) days from the date on the notice, should the taxes, penalties and
interest then due not be paid. Written notice shall be deemed given when a copy
of same is enclosed in a sealed envelope with postage thereon fully prepaid and
certified in the United States mail and addressed to that address given by the
operator in the application for the license. The license shall be canceled upon
lapse of the fifteen (15) days provided in the notice, if all taxes, penalties
and interest are not paid in full within the fifteen-day period.
   (E)   Fraud: If the Tax Administrator determines that the nonpayment of any
remittance due under this Chapter is due to fraud, a penalty of twenty five
percent (25%) of the amount of the tax shall be added thereto in addition to
the penalties stated in subsections (A) and (B) of this Section. (Ord. 615, 5-
17-94)
4-10-8: FAILURE TO COLLECT AND REPORT TAX - DETERMINATION OF TAX BY TAX
ADMINISTRATOR - APPLICATION FOR HEARING:
   (A)   In addition to subsection
4-10-7(D) above, if any operator shall fail or refuse to collect said tax and
to make, within the time provided in this Chapter, any report and remittance of
said tax or any portion thereof required by this Chapter, the Tax Administrator
shall proceed in such manner as he may deem best to obtain facts and
information on which to base his estimate of the tax due. As soon as the Tax
Administrator shall procure such facts and information as he is able to obtain
upon which to determine an estimate of any tax imposed by this Chapter, payable
by any operator who has failed or refused to collect the same and to make such
report and remittance, he shall proceed to assess against such operator the tax
and administrative charges provided for by this Chapter. In case such
determination is made, the Tax Administrator shall give a notice of the amount
so assessed by serving it personally or by depositing it in the United States
mail, postage prepaid and certified, addressed to the operator so assessed at
his last known place of address.
   (B)   Such operator may within ten (10) days after the serving or mailing of
such notice make application in writing to the Tax Administrator for a hearing
on the amount assessed. If application by the operator for a hearing is not
made within the time prescribed, the tax and administrative charges, if any,
determined by the Tax Administrator shall become final and conclusive and
immediately due and payable.
   (C)   If such application is made, the Tax Administrator shall give not less
than five (5) days' written notice in the manner prescribed herein to the
operator to show cause at a time and place fixed in the notice why the
estimated tax specified therein should not be fixed for such tax. At such
hearing, the operator may appear and offer evidence why such estimated tax
should not be so fixed.
   (D)   After such hearing the Tax Administrator shall determine the proper
tax to be remitted and shall thereafter give written notice to the person in
the manner prescribed herein of such determination and the amount of such tax
and administrative charges. The amount determined to be due shall be payable
after fifteen (15) days unless an appeal is taken as provided in Section
4-10-9. (Ord. 615, 5-17-1994)
4-10-9: APPEAL:
Any operator aggrieved by a decision of the Tax Administrator with respect to
the amount of such tax and administrative charges, if any, may appeal to the
Council by filing a notice of appeal with the City Clerk within fifteen (15)
days of the serving or mailing of the determination of tax due.
The Council shall fix a time and place for hearing such appeal, and the City
Clerk shall give notice in writing to such operator at his last known place of
address. The findings of the Council shall be final and conclusive and shall be
served upon the appellant in the manner prescribed in Section
4-10-8 for the service of notice of hearing. Any amount found to be due shall
be immediately due and payable upon the service of notice. (Ord. 615, 5-17-
1994)
4-10-10: RECORDS:
   (A)   No reports or statements of an operator shall be conclusive as to the
matters set forth therein, nor shall the filing of such reports or statements
preclude the City from collection by appropriate action such sum as is actually
due and payable. Each report or statement and each of the items therein shall
be subject to audit and verification by the Tax Administrator or authorized
agents of the City who are hereby authorized to examine, audit and inspect such
books and records as may be necessary in their judgment to verify or determine
the tax due.
   (B)   Every operator shall keep and preserve for a period of three (3) years
all records as may be necessary to determine the tax. Said record shall be made
available to the City at all reasonable times within ten (10) days of the date
of the written request sent by certified mail. Each operator is required to
permit an examination of such books and records at a location within the City.
In the event the books and records cannot be made available within the City,
the operator shall reimburse the City for the cost of all transportation,
lodging, meals, portal-to-portal travel time, and other incidental costs
reasonably incurred by the City in conducting the audit.
   (C)   Confidential or proprietary information furnished to or secured by the
City from an operator in the implementation of this Chapter shall be
confidential. This Section shall not apply, however, to disclosures made in
connection with any hearing, appeal, or any civil action or proceeding relating
to the determination or recovery of the tax. (Ord. 615, 5-17-1994)
4-10-11: REFUNDS:
   (A)   Whenever the amount of any tax, interest or penalty has been overpaid
or paid more than once or has been erroneously or illegally collected or
received by the City under this Chapter it may be refunded as provided in
subsections (B) and (C) of this Section provided a claim in writing therefor,
stating under penalty of perjury the specific grounds upon which the claim is
founded, is filed with the Tax Administrator within three (3) years of the date
of payment. The claim shall be on forms furnished by the Tax Administrator.
   (B)   An operator may claim a refund or take as credit against taxes
collected and remitted the amount overpaid, paid more than once or erroneously
or illegally collected or received when it is established in a manner
prescribed by the Tax Administrator that the person from whom the tax has been
collected was not a transient; provided, however, that neither a refund nor a
credit shall be allowed unless the amount of the tax so collected has either
been refunded to the transient or credited to rent subsequently payable by the
transient to the operator.
   (C)   A transient may obtain a refund of taxes overpaid or paid more than
once or erroneously or illegally collected or received by the City by filing a
claim in the manner provided in subsection (A) of this Section, but only when
the tax was paid by the transient directly to the Tax Administrator, or when
the transient having paid the tax to the operator, establishes to the
satisfaction of the Tax Administrator that the transient has been unable to
obtain a refund from the operator who collected the tax.
   (D)   No refund shall be paid under the provisions of this Section unless
the claimant establishes his right thereto by written records showing
entitlement thereto. (Ord. 615, 5-17-1994)
4-10-12: ACTIONS TO COLLECT:
   (A)   Any tax required to be paid by any transient under the provisions of
this Chapter shall be deemed a debt owed by the transient to the City. Any such
tax collected by an operator which has not been paid to the City shall be
deemed a debt owed by the operator to the City. Any person owing money to the
City under the provisions of this Chapter shall be liable to an action brought
in the name of the City for the recovery of such amount.
   (B)   If any tax is not paid when due, the Tax Administrator may record in
the office of the county recorder of such counties as the Tax Administrator may
determine, a certificate of lien which specifies the amount of tax due and the
name and address of the operator owing the tax. The certificate shall include a
statement that the Tax Administrator has complied with all legal requirements
in the determination of the tax owed, and a legal description of the real
property of the owner. Upon recording of the certificate, the tax constitutes a
lien upon all real property owned or thereafter acquired by the operator. The
lien has the force, effect and priority of a judgment lien.
   (C)   At any time after the recording of a certificate of lien, the Tax
Administrator may issue a check or warrant directed to any sheriff or marshal
for the enforcement of the lien and the collection of such tax. The warrant
shall have the same effect as a writ of execution, and be executed in the same
manner and with the same effect as a levy and sale pursuant to writ of
execution. The Tax Administrator may pay or advance to the sheriff or marshal
such fees, commissions and expenses for services as are provided by law.
   (D)   In lieu of issuing a check or warrant as provided in subsection (C) of
this Section, after an assessment is issued or certificate of lien is recorded
under subsection (B) of this Section, the tax administrator may collect the
delinquent amount by seizing or causing to be seized any property, real or
personal, of the operator and selling noncash or nonnegotiable property at
public auction to pay the tax due together with any cost of the seizure and
sale. Any seizure made shall only be of property not exempt from execution
under the provisions of the Code of Civil Procedure. (Ord. 615, 5-17-1994)
4-10-13: DUTY AND LIABILITY OF OPERATOR'S SUCCESSOR:
   (A)   Any operator liable for any tax who sells or otherwise disposes of a
hotel, and the operator's successor, shall notify the Tax Administrator of the
date of sale at least thirty (30) days prior to the date of sale, immediately.
The successor shall withhold from the operator for the account of the City a
portion of the purchase price sufficient to pay the amount of the tax owed to
the City until the operator secures a written release from the Tax
Administrator stating that no tax is due from the operator through the date of
the sale. If no release is presented by the operator to the successor within
thirty (30) days after the successor commences operation of the hotel, the
successor shall immediately deposit the amount withheld from the amount of the
tax owed by the prior operator.
   (B)   If the successor fails to withhold the amount required by subsection
(A) of this Section, the successor is liable to the City for payment of the tax
owed by the operator.
   (C)   The Tax Administrator shall, within thirty (30) days of receipt of a
written request for a release, either issue the release or give written notice
to the operator, with a copy to the successor, of the amount of tax which must
be paid to secure issuance of the release. The release shall be a defense,
available solely to the successor and not the operator, to any claim the City
may assert against the successor for taxes owed by the operator.
   (D)   Any operator from whom the successor has withheld and paid to the City
a portion of the purchase price may challenge the Tax Administrator's
determination pursuant to Section
4-10-8, by making application in writing for a hearing on the amount determined
by the Tax Administrator within ten (10) days of mailing by the Tax
Administrator. Following receipt of a timely request for hearing, the hearing
provisions of Section
4-10-8 shall apply. (Ord. 615, 5-17-1994)
4-10-14: RULES AND REGULATIONS - INTERPRETATION:
The Tax Administrator may make rules and regulations not inconsistent with the
provisions of this Chapter as may be necessary or desirable to aid in the
enforcement and administration of this Chapter. Any such rule or regulation
which may affect the amount of the tax owed the City shall be subject to
approval of the City Council. Said rules and regulations shall be filed in the
office of the Tax Administrator and maintained in an orderly and readily
accessible manner. Taxes are considered paid only upon receipt of the return,
and penalty, interest, and completed exemption certificate when appropriate.
The burden to secure and comply with the rules and regulations shall be upon
the operator. (Ord. 615, 5-17-1994)
4-10-15: EFFECTIVE DATE:
This Chapter shall take effect immediately upon its adoption pursuant to
section 36937(d), California Government Code as an ordinance relating to taxes
for the usual and current expenses of the City. (Ord. 615, 5-17-1994)
CHAPTER 11
CABLE COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEMS
SECTION:
4-11-1: Scope Of Chapter
4-11-2: Definitions
4-11-3: Franchise To Install
4-11-4: Minimum Cable Television System Services
4-11-5: Technical Performance Standards
4-11-6: Two-Way Capability And Operation
4-11-7: Operation Of Service
4-11-8: Penalties And Requests For Extensions Of Construction Deadlines
4-11-9: Removal And Abandonment Of Property Of Grantee
4-11-10: Changes Required By Public Improvements
4-11-11: Franchise Fee
4-11-12: Franchise Term; Duration And Termination
4-11-13: Interconnection
4-11-14: Performance Evaluation Sessions
4-11-15: Right To Privacy Of Subscribers
4-11-16: Complaint Procedure, Remedies For Inadequate Service And Notices
4-11-17: Application For Franchise
4-11-18: Binding Agreements
4-11-19: Costs To Be Borne By Grantee
4-11-20: Rates, Charges And Rate Increases
4-11-21: Faithful Performance Bond
4-11-22: Indemnification Of The City
4-11-23: Inspection Of Property And Records
4-11-24: Nonexclusivety Of Franchise
4-11-25: Services
4-11-26: Limitations Of Franchise
4-11-27: Rights Reserved To The City
4-11-28: Uses Permitted To Grantee
4-11-29: Acceptance Of And Effective Date Of Franchise
4-11-30: No Impairments Of Contract
4-11-31: Violations
4-11-1: SCOPE OF CHAPTER:
Any person operating, or seeking to operate, a cable communications system,
also known as a community antenna television system (CATV) business within the
City, the nature of which requires approval of the City Council of a franchise
contract, shall be subject to all of the regulations contained herein or in any
other applicable ordinances of the City. (Ord. 476, 10-25-1983)
4-11-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this Chapter, the following terms, phrases, words,
abbreviations, and their derivations shall have the meaning given herein. When
not inconsistent with the context, words used in the present tense include the
future tense, words in the plural number include the singular number, and words
in the singular number include the plural number.
CITY: The City of Taft, a municipal corporation of the State of California, in
its present incorporated form or in any latter reorganized, inconsolidated,
enlarged or reincorporated form.
CITY MANAGER: The chief administrative officer, City Manager, City
Administrator, or other designation of the City's chief executive officer, or
any designee thereof.
COMMUNITY ANTENNA TELEVISION SYSTEM (CATV): A system of antenna, satellite
receiving and transmitting apparatus, coaxial cables, fiber optics, wires, wave
guides, and/or other conductors, amplifiers, electronic processors, equipment
and facilities designed, constructed or used for the purpose of providing over
the air satellite delivered and locally originated television or FM radio
service by cable within the City of Taft. Such a definition does not include
those services which are classified as MDS (Multiple Distribution Systems), DBS
(Direct Broadcast Satellite), or STV (Subscription Television) services, all of
which are delivered via microwave from a central originating point directly to
a subscriber without the use of wires.
COUNCIL: The governing body of the City of Taft, or any future board
constituting the legislative body of the City.
FRANCHISE: Any authorization granted hereunder in terms of a franchise,
privilege, permit, license or otherwise, to construct, operate, and maintain
cable communications system within all or a specified area in the City. Any
such authorization, in whatever form granted, shall not mean and include any
license or permit required for the privilege of transacting and carrying on a
business within the City as required by other ordinances and laws of this City.
GRANTEE: The person, firm or corporation granted a franchise by the Council
under this Chapter, and the lawful successor, transferee or assignee of said
person, firm or corporation.
GROSS ANNUAL ADVERTISING RECEIPTS: Shall mean any income, compensation and
other consideration received by grantee from any advertising on the cable
television system.
GROSS ANNUAL BASIC SUBSCRIBER RECEIPTS: Any and all compensation and other
consideration received directly or indirectly by the grantee from subscribers
in payment of the regularly furnished service of the cable television system in
the transmission of broadcast television, radio signals, satellite delivered
programming, and original cablecast programming of the grantee designated as
the "basic service".
GROSS ANNUAL NON-BASIC SERVICE RECEIPTS: Any and all compensation and other
consideration received directly or indirectly by the grantee from subscribers
or users in payment for the receipt of signals whether for "pay television",
"facsimile" transmission, "security services", "return" or "response"
communication, and whether or not transmitted encoded or processed to permit
reception by only selected subscribers, and designed as an optional service, or
non-basic service.
GROSS RECEIPTS: As used in the following categories, shall mean any and all
compensation, in whatever form, grant, subsidy, exchange, or otherwise,
directly or indirectly received by a grantee, not including any taxes on
services furnished by the grantee, imposed directly on any subscriber or user
by a city, county, state or other governmental unit, and collected by the
grantee for such entity. Research grants of monies and/or equipment received
individually, jointly, or collectively, by Taft College, Taft High School, the
City of Taft, and the grantee, for the purposes of cable communications
programming and/or research, shall not be subject to this definition.
PERSON: Any natural person and all domestic and foreign corporations,
associations, syndicates, joint stock corporations, partnerships of every kind,
clubs, business or common law trusts, and societies.
PROPERTY OF GRANTEE: All property owned, installed, or used within the City by
a grantee in the conduct of a cable communications system business under the
authority of a franchise granted pursuant to this Chapter.
STREET: The surface, the air space above the surface and the area below the
surface of any public street, other public right of way or public place,
including public utility easements.
SUBSCRIBER OR USER: Any person or entity receiving for any purpose any service
of the grantee's cable communications system including, but not limited to, the
conventional cable television system service of retransmission of television
broadcast, satellite broadcast, radio signals, grantee's original cablecasting,
and other locally originated programming and services, such as leasing of
channels, data and facsimile transmission, pay television, public service
communication, and other services which may arise during the course of this
franchise. (Ord. 476, 10-25-1983)
4-11-3: FRANCHISE TO INSTALL:
A nonexclusive franchise to install, construct, operate, and maintain a cable
television system on streets within all or a specific portion of the City may
be granted by the Council to any person, whether operating under an existing
franchise, who or which offers to furnish and provide such system under and
pursuant to the terms and provisions of this Chapter.
No provision of this Chapter may be deemed or construed as to require the
granting of a franchise when in the opinion of the Council it is in the public
interest to restrict the number of grantees to one or more. (Ord. 476, 10-25-
1983)
4-11-4: MINIMUM CABLE TELEVISION SYSTEM SERVICES:
Any and all cable television systems for the City shall be designed and
installed to meet all of the standards expressly set forth throughout this
Chapter. In addition, as a minimum, the system(s) shall be constructed to
provide the following:
   (A)   35 channel capability on a subscriber network, with 21 channels of
program ming provided by end of Year 1 of the franchise (Year 1 begins from the
date of this Chapter) and an additional 14 channels by the end of Year 7 of the
franchise.
   (B)   Interactive capabilities which shall be implemented per Section
4-11-6 of this Chapter.
   (C)   Upstream and downstream capabilities and services on the subscriber
network.
   (D)   One local channel for educational, and governmental use, with
provisions for future additional channel allocation based upon usage and
demand.
   (E)   A fully-equipped state-of-the-art local television production studio
located within the City limits, either owned and operated by the grantee, or
owned and operated by either/or Taft College and/or Taft High School and
supported with equipment and/or funding provided by the grantee.
   (F)   Free installation and services for public buildings designated by the
City.
   (G)   Programming services that include:
National and international news services
   Financial and stock market information
   Sports channels
   Children's programming
   Movie channels
   Pay cable services
   Cultural programming
   FM stereo programming
Educational programming from local public schools and higher education
facilities
   (H)   Emergency override features.
   (I)   Dedicated quantities of portable television equipment which may be
"shared" or "pooled" by public and institutional users.
   (J)   On-going support, either financial or in-kind, for the development,
operation, and promotion of the public access channels.
   (K)   Interconnection of subscriber and/or institutional networks with those
of adjacent and/or nearby communities, and county-wide agencies and/or
services, pursuant to the provisions of Section
4-11-13.
The term "dedicated" as used in this Section, shall mean that the equipment
which is dedicated is to be used solely for the purpose specified and is not
shared with any other cable system owned or operated by the grantee(s). (Ord.
476, 10-25-1983)
4-11-5: TECHNICAL PERFORMANCE STANDARDS:
The CATV system shall be designed, installed, maintained and tested in
accordance with the best CATV industry practice and, as a minimum, shall
conform with the technical performance standards contained, herein. In
addition, should the Federal Communications Commission (FCC), or other State or
Federal authority having jurisdiction, impose CATV system technical performance
standards either outside the scope of the technical performance standards
contained herein, or requiring a higher level of CATV system performance, those
standards are hereby incorporated herein by reference.
If, for any reason, the reference FCC or other technical standards shall become
reduced in the regional scope or service level, the more stringent standards
herein shall remain in effect.
   (A)   Performance of the CATV system as measured at the input to any
subscriber terminal with matched 75 ohm termination shall be as follows:
      1.   The frequency boundaries of cable television channels delivered to
the input of the subscriber terminals shall conform to those set forth in FCC
73.603(a), or subsequent FCC standard.
      2.   If no frequency converter is supplied to the subscriber, the visual
carrier frequency shall be maintained 1.25 MHZ±25 Khz above the lower frequency
boundary of the cable television channel. If a frequency converter is supplied
to the subscriber by the cable television company, the following requirement
shall be applied at the interface between the converter and the subscriber's
terminal equipment: when the visual carrier at the output of the converter has
been tuned to a frequency 1.25 Mhz above the lower frequency boundary of a
cable television channel with the converter stabilized at an ambient
temperature between 20°C and 25°C, the frequency of the visual carrier shall
not vary more than ±250 Khz for a period of at least three (3) hours, during
which period the ambient temperature may vary ±5°C about the initial ambient
temperature.
      3.   The aural center frequency of the aural carrier shall be 4.5 MHz ±
KHz above the frequency of the visual carrier.
      4.   The visual signal level across a 75-ohm terminating impedance as
viewed from subscriber directional taps shall not be less than 1500 microvolts
(+3.5dBmv) at each subscriber's external tap.
      5.   The visual sign level on each channel shall be maintained within:
         (a)   3 decibels of the visual signal level of any visual carrier
within 6 MHz nominal frequency separation; and,
         (b)   12 decibels of the visual signal level on any other channel;
and,
         (c)   A maximum level such that signal level degradation due to
overload in the subscriber's receiver does not occur; and,
         (d)   12 decibels over any twenty four (24) hour period.
      6.   The rms voltage of the aural signal shall be maintained between 13
and 17 decibels below the associated visual signal level, except for the
aeronautical frequency.
      7.   The peak-to-peak variation in visual signal level caused by
undesired low frequency disturbances (hum or repetitive transients) generated
within the system, or by inadequate low frequency response, shall not exceed
five percent (5%) of the visual signal level.
      8.   The amplitude characteristic shall be within a range of ± 2 decibels
from 0.75 MHz to 4.0 MHz above the lower boundary frequency of the cable
television channel, referenced to the average of the highest and lowest
amplitudes within these frequency boundaries.
      9.   The ratio of visual signal level to system noise shall be not less
than 40 decibels.
      10.   The ratio of visual signal level to any undesired co-channel
television signal operating on proper offset assignment shall be not less than
36 decibels.
      11.   The ratio of visual signal level to the rms amplitude of any
coherent disturbances such as intermodulation products or discrete-frequency
interfering signals not operating on proper offset assignments shall not be
less than 46 decibels.
      12.   The terminal isolation provided each subscriber shall be not less
than 18 decibels, but, in any event, shall be sufficient to prevent reflections
caused by open-circuited or short-circuited subscriber terminals from producing
visible picture impairments at any other subscriber terminal.
      13.   As an exception to the general provision requiring measurements to
be made at subscriber terminals, and without regard to the class of cable
television channel involved, radiation from a cable television shall be
measured in accordance with procedures outlined in FCC regulations, and shall
be limited as follows:
 
FREQUENCIES                         RADIATION LIMIT    DISTANCE
                                    (microvolts/meter) (feet)
Up to and including 54 MHz          15                 100
Over 54 up to and including 216 MHz 20                 10
Over 216 MHz                        15                 100
 
      14.   The CATV system shall be rated for continuous, twenty four (24)
hour per day operation.
      15.   If FM signal processing is in effect, the FM signal level across a
75 ohm terminating impedance as viewed from subscriber's terminals shall be not
less than 100 microvolts (-20 dBmV) nor greater than the highest permitted
Channel 6 aural signal level.
      16.   If FM signal processing is in effect, the FM signal on each channel
shall be maintained within:
         (a)   3 decibels of the FM signal of any FM signal on an adjacent (200
MHz spacing) channel; and,
         (b)   6 decibels of the FM signal level of any other FM signal carried
on the system.
      17.   The CATV system shall, as a minimum, be operational in full
compliance with the applicable specifications contained herein, over the radio
frequency spectrum from 50 to 300 MHz inclusive. Further, the system shall be
designed such that thirty five (35) channel operation can be implemented in
Year 7 of the franchise per Section
4-11-4.
      18.   The CATV system shall, as a minimum, be capable of operating in
full compliance with the applicable specifications herein, a return signal
capacity in all portions of the system, over the frequency range of 5 to 30
MHz.
      19.   Pursuant to FCC Rules, the grantee shall, at all times during the
franchise, properly install and maintain adequate shielding, filtering and
grounding at affected installations within the CATV system to eliminate system
interference from local radio/television broadcast stations, commercial,
government and aeronautical radio stations and/or from fundamental frequency
overload by radio amateur or citizen's radio service transmissions which are in
compliance with the Federal Communications Commission regulations.
   (B)   Nonbroadcast signals carried on the CATV system shall meet the
following broadband requirements. The RF modulated signals associated with
these base band signals shall meet all requirements of subsection (A), above.
      1.   Overall baseband system video frequency response shall be ±2
decibels over a DC to 4.2 MHz bandwidth.
      2.   Baseband video tilt shall not exceed two percent (2%) at the
vertical or horizontal rate.
      3.   Overall baseband system video signal-to-noise ratio shall be not
less than 42 decibels over a DC to 4.2 MHz bandwidth.
      4.   Video synchronizing waveform shall comply with the following
applicable standard (latest edition or its equivalent):
         (a)   2:1 Interlace monochrome - EIA RS-330.
         (b)   Full interlace monochrome - EIA RS-170.
         (c)   Color - FCC 73.699 Figure 6.
      5.   Where applicable, minimum television camera, (live and film)
performance shall be:
         (a)   Resolution (luminance) - 300 line center (vertical); 500 line
center, 400 line corners (horizontal).
         (b)   Scan linearity - two percent (2%) maximum error (horizontal and
vertical).
         (c)   Registration (color only) two tenth percent (0.2%) in centered
circle of 0.8 picture height; four tenths percent (0.4%) overall.
         (d)   Video tilt - two percent (2%) maximum (horizontal rate).
      6.   Overall audio system frequency response shall be ±3 decibels over
the frequency range 50 to 10,000 Hz.
      7.   Overall audio system signal-to-noise ratio shall be not less than 50
decibels over the frequency range 50 to 10,000 Hz.
      8.   Overall audio system harmonic distortion shall not exceed two
percent (2%) at any frequency from 50 to 10,000 Hz.
   (C)   The local origination studio(s), or equipment to support a studio
provided by the grantee shall meet the following minimum requirements:
      1.   600 square-foot (net) space minimum.
      2.   12-foot ceiling height minimum.
      3.   3200°-Kelvin tungsten halogen professional television production
lighting system with a minimum of 200 foot-candles luminance.
      4.   Acoustical noise level under normal studio operating conditions not
to exceed NC-25.
      5.   A minimum complement of television production equipment to include
the following, or approved equivalent:
   Three (3) 3-tube color television cameras with full remoted control and ENG
portable capacity
   All necessary studio lighting to meet the specifications noted above and
with individual light dimming capability
   A video switcher with chroma key, special effects and downstream capability
   A character generator with multiple font sizes, automatic vertical and
horizontal scroll
   One time base corrector (TBC) for signal processing of videotape recorders
during editing
   One time base corrector (TBC) for on-cable playback of videotape players
   A three-fourths inch (3/4") videotape editing system with multiple source
capability and SMPTE time code features
   Two (2) designated three-fourths inch (3/4") videotape players
   One three-fourths inch (3/4") portable videotape recorder/player with
rechargeable batteries
   An audio mixing board with a minimum of four-channel input/output
capability, two (2) turntables, one two-channel tape recorder, one cassette
tape recorder, four (4) lapel microphones, two (2) cardiod studio mics
   A sync generator
   A multiplexer, to include, one 16mm and one 8mm sound projector, and two (2)
35mm slide projector capability
   One vectorscope
   Two (2) waveform monitors
   All necessary video and audio monitors
   All necessary mounting racks and consoles
   All wiring, amplifier, terminal and processing equipment
   All necessary test and maintenance equipment
   A supply of spare parts to keep all equipment in a continual state of
operation
   (D)   The grantee shall, during the third operating quarter of each year,
perform annual CATV system performance tests.
      1.Such tests shall be in full compliance with FCC regulations.
      2.Such tests may be independently witnessed and the resultant data
analyzed by a representative of the City if directed by the City Manager.
      3.All necessary test instrumentation shall be supplied by the grantee. A
current certificate of calibration by an independent calibration laboratory
shall be supplied for each test instrument. All costs for instrumentation and
calibration shall be borne by grantee.
      4.Measurement locations for system compliance with subsection (A), above,
except those requirements regarding twenty four (24) hour visual signal
amplitude and channel amplitude characteristics, shall include:
         (a)   End of each system major trunk, and,
         (b)   End of each system trunk branch four (4) or more trunk
amplifiers deep.
Actual test locations shall be selected to measure performance of the system in
the franchise area and shall be (or as closely as possible to simulate) actual
subscriber locations.
      5.   Measurements regarding twenty four (24) hour visual signal level and
channel amplitude characteristics shall be made as required by the FCC.
      6.   Measurement for system compliance with subsection (B) above, shall
be made where practical on all origination equipment employed in the system.
      7.   Measurement techniques shall be those suggested by the FCC.
      8.   Concurrent with annual performance tests, the City representative
may inspect all system headend facilities and outside plant for adherence to
best industry installation, workmanship and safety practice.
      9.   If said proof of performance tests, or construction standards show
that the cable television system is below the performance standards outlined in
this franchise, the City shall give notice thereof to grantee and grantee shall
have thirty (30) days to correct said deficiency. Grantee will notify the City
when such correction has been made and the engineering firm employed in the
previous test will retest to ensure compliance. In the event the resultant
tests reveal grantee has failed to correct said deficiency(s), or if thirty
(30) days has elapsed and grantee has not corrected the deficiency, the City
may request mutually agreed upon independent engineers to demonstrate at the
grantee's cost, the appropriate correction to the grantee. Grantee shall then
have a minimum of sixty (60) days or an extended approved reasonable time
required, to correct deficiency. If at the end of the approved time the
deficiency still has not been corrected, the City shall have the option of
assessing liquidated damages in the amount of five hundred dollars ($500.00)
per day for each and every day the deficiency exists.
   (E)   The grantee shall maintain the system so it consistently operates
within the substantial compliance of the technical standards herein;
substantial compliance being defined as eighty eight percent (88%) of the
channels received shall meet all applicable technical standards simultaneously
at the time of measurement, and one hundred percent (100%) of the local
origination equipment shall meet all applicable technical standards specified
herein. (Ord. 476, 10-25-1983)
4-11-6: TWO-WAY CAPABILITY AND OPERATION:
The CATV system shall be constructed with full two-way capability (upstream and
downstream transmission and reception) of both audio and video signals. In Year
12 of the franchise, (Year 1 begins with the award of franchise) and in no
event later than the end of Year 12, grantee shall submit to the City Manager,
for City Council approval, a plan for implementation of two-way data
transmission on the subscriber network. Such a plan shall include, as a
minimum, all services to be offered, the date for implementation and marketing
of those services, and the fees to be charged subscribers for each and every
service and/or level of service proposed.
As a minimum, grantee agrees to provide upstream and downstream data
transmission capabilities (energization and activation of all necessary
amplifiers and signal routing) between Taft College and system subscribers per
this Section, which will be activated in Year 13 of the franchise.
Following City Council approval, grantee shall implement those two-way services
to which it is committed by no later than the end of Year 13 of the franchise.
Failure to meet any of the provisions of this Section shall subject the grantee
to an assessment of liquidated damages in the amount of five hundred dollars
($500.00) per day for each and every day's delay beyond the deadline(s) noted
herein. (Ord. 591, 10-6-1992)
4-11-7: OPERATION OF SERVICE:
   (A)   Within thirty (30) days after acceptance of any franchise, the grantee
shall proceed with due diligence to obtain all necessary permits and
authorizations which are required in the conduct of its business, including,
but not limited to, any utility joint use attachment, agreements, microwave
carrier licenses, and other permits, licenses and authorizations to be granted
by duly constituted regulatory agencies having jurisdiction over the operation
of cable television systems, associated microwave transmission/reception
facilities and/or satellite communications facilities.
   (B)   For new franchises, within one hundred twenty (120) days after award
of franchise, grantee shall commence construction and installation of the cable
television system.
   (C)   As part of their proposal to the City the franchise applicant shall
indicate a proposed construction schedule for the completion of the
installation of the cable television system throughout the entire City. Service
to the areas prescribed in that proposal shall be provided within the period
stated and failure on the part of the grantee to complete each of the matters
set forth therein, shall be grounds for termination of the franchise. The
proposed construction schedule shall not, in any event, exceed two (2) years,
except that, by resolution, and in accord with Section
4-11-8 this Chapter, the City, in its discretion, may extend the time for the
commencement and completion of installation and construction for additional
periods in the event the grantee, acting in good faith, experiences delays by
reason of circumstances beyond his control.
   (D)   By acceptance of the franchise granted hereunder, grantee agrees that
failure to comply with any time requirements referred to in subsections (A),
(B), and (C), of this Section, or as may be extended by Council, grantee agrees
that in addition to the penalty provisions specified in Section
4-11-8, grantee will pay to the City the sum of five hundred dollars ($500.00)
per day for each and every day's delay beyond the time prescribed, plus
authorized extensions thereof, for completion of any of the acts required to be
done by this Section.
   (E)   Grantee shall utilize existing poles, conduits, and other facilities
whenever possible, and shall not, construct or install any new, different or
additional poles, conduits, or other facilities whether on public property or
on privately-owned property unless and until first securing the written
approval of the City Manager.
   (F)   The City shall have the right, free of charge, to make additional use,
for any public or Municipal purpose, whether governmental or proprietary, of
any poles, conduits or similar facilities erected, controlled, or maintained
exclusively by or for the grantee in any street, provided such use does not
interfere with the use by grantee.
   (G)   In those areas of the City where the transmission or distribution
facilities of the respective public utilities providing telephone,
communication, and electric services are underground, or hereafter are placed
underground, the grantee shall likewise construct, operate, and maintain all of
his transmission and distribution facilities underground, with the exception of
"active electronic equipment", which, upon design and location approval from
the City Manager, may be placed above ground. Whenever any active electronic
component is so located above the surface of the ground, all efforts will be
undertaken by grantee to ensure that such location does not endanger the public
safety or welfare, and, is so located as to not physically detract from the
surroundings. The term "underground" shall include a partial underground
system.
      1.   The method of underground construction to be utilized by the
grantee, whether by trenching, boring, cutting, or other method, and the
restoration of streets, parkways, alleys, and other City rights-of-way utilized
for the placement of the franchisee's conduits and/or ancillary equipment, must
first be submitted to the City Manager for approval. The construction methods
approved will be subject to the required permit fees and City inspection as may
be required by other ordinances, rules, regulations and specifications of the
City heretofore or hereafter adopted, including but not limited to those
pertaining to works and activities in, on, over, under and about streets.
      2.   Grantee agrees to provide a method of employee/subcontractor
identification, acceptable to the City, for all such individuals who may make
personal contact with Taft residents for the purposes of construction,
marketing, or other services of the cable television system.
      3.   Prior to construction of, or rebuilding of, the cable system, the
grantee shall notify in writing each resident in the area in which construction
is to commence, and shall deliver to each resident, notice of such construction
either in person by a representative of the grantee, or by mail, at least forty
eight (48) hours in advance of such construction work.
      4.   The grantee shall perform all backfilling within twenty four (24)
hours except by specified written approval of the City Engineer, and shall,
within a reasonable time, return property to original condition.
      5.   All landscaped public and private areas shall be returned to a
condition as existed prior to the construction work and the grantee shall
maintain such area until, in the opinion of the City Engineer, the plant
materials are reestablished.
      6.   Neither the grantee, nor any subcontractor employed by the grantee,
shall remove any tree or trim any portion either above, at or below ground
level, of any tree within any public place without the prior consent of the
City. The City shall have the right to do the work with the actual cost thereof
to be paid by the grantee. If such trimming is not performed by the City, the
grantee shall be responsible for any and all damages to any tree as a result of
trimming, or to the land surrounding the tree, whether such tree is trimmed or
removed.
      7.   Any grantee awarded a franchise within the City agrees to the City's
acceptance and approval of any and all subcontracting firms employed by the
grantee within the City. Such acceptance and approval by the City shall not be
unreasonably denied.
In the event the City determines that any subcontractor employed by the grantee
is performing unsatisfactory or inferior work, as determined by the City
Engineer, or is the cause for numerous complaints, the City Manager shall
notify the grantee in writing of the City's revocation of that subcontractor's
license to operate within the City, and the grantee shall, within thirty (30)
days of such notice employ another subcontractor that meets the provisions of
this subsection.
If the City invokes its right to revoke the license of any subcontractor
employed by the grantee, then the grantee shall be given an automatic extension
of any construction deadline for thirty (30) additional days from the date of
receipt of written notification of any such action by the City.
   (H)   Grantee agrees to provide services to the entire residential area of
the City, including future annexations, in accord with subsection (C) of this
Section, and herein referred to as the "Subscriber Network". Any limitations on
system extensions, or exclusions, shall be approved by Council and referenced
as part of the grantee's proposal, or adopted by Council resolution and
attached hereto as additional exhibits.
   (I)   Grantee shall furnish the City with as-built drawings of the entire
cable television system. Within thirty (30) days of completion of construction
of five (5) miles of City streets, and for each five (5) miles thereafter until
the system is completed, grantee shall file as-built drawings with the City
Engineer.
   (J)   In the event any changes, or modifications are made to the cable
system that would alter the City's as-built plans, grantee shall, after seeking
City approval of such changes, file revised plans to reflect the changes within
thirty (30) days of completion of the changes.
   (K)   Grantee agrees to maintain a local business office within the City for
the purposes of conducting its local activities. Grantee further agrees to
maintain a twenty four (24) hour toll-free answering service for service
related problem calls.
All such telephone numbers indicated above shall be listed in directories of
the telephone company serving the City, and be so operated that complaints and
requests for repairs or adjustments may be received at any time, day or night,
seven (7) days a week. All complaints shall be acknowledged within twenty four
(24) hours of receipt. (Ord. 476, 10-25-1983)
4-11-8: PENALTIES AND REQUESTS FOR EXTENSIONS OF CONSTRUCTION DEADLINES:
In addition to the monetary penalties specified in Section
4-11-7, the following penalties shall also apply:
   (A)   For failure to commence construction in accordance with Section
4-11-7 of this Chapter, unless the Council approves the delay because of
reasons beyond the control of the grantee, the franchise term shall be reduced
four (4) days for each day of delay.
   (B)   For failure to begin service to subscribers or complete construction
and installation of the system as provided for in Section
4-11-7 of this Chapter, or as provided for in the grantee's proposal to the
City and adopted or amended, unless the Council approves the delay because of
reasons beyond the control of the grantee, the franchise term shall be reduced
four (4) days for each day of delay.
   (C)   Any requests for extensions of the proposed construction deadlines
proposed by grantee, due to acts of God, acts of the public enemy, fires,
floods, epidemics, quarantine restrictions, strikes, lockouts, freight
embargoes, unusually severe weather, or from any other cause beyond the
reasonable control of grantee and/or its employees, agents or contractors, must
be requested from the City Manager in writing within fourteen (14) days after
the cause for such delay first occurs. Such request must specify the exact
reason for the delay and the total number of extension days requested. The
City's approval of the request shall not be unreasonably withheld or denied.
Whenever and wherever possible, such requests for extensions of the proposed or
required construction deadlines should be supported with written justification
of the cause for such delay, such as newspaper articles, letters from vendors,
agents, contractors, etc. Within fourteen (14) days of receipt of such a
request, the City Manager will reply in writing, approving, partially
approving, or denying the request. (Ord. 476, 10-25-1983)
4-11-9: REMOVAL AND ABANDONMENT OF PROPERTY OF GRANTEE:
   (A)   In the event that the use of any part of the CATV system is
discontinued for any reason for a continuous period of twelve (12) months, or
in the event such a system or property has been installed in any street or
public place without complying with the requirements of grantee's franchise, or
this Chapter, or the franchise has been terminated, cancelled, revoked or
expired, the grantee shall promptly, upon being given ten (10) days' notice,
remove from the streets for public places all such property of such system
other than any which the City Engineer may permit be abandoned in place. In the
event of such removal, the grantee shall promptly restore the street or other
area from which such property has been removed to a condition satisfactory to
the City Engineer.
   (B)   Any property of the grantee remaining in place thirty (30) days after
the termination, cancellation, revocation, or expiration of the franchise shall
be considered permanently abandoned. The City Engineer may extend such time,
not to exceed an additional thirty (30) days.
   (C)   Any property of the grantee to be abandoned in place shall be
abandoned in such manner as the City Engineer shall prescribe. Upon permanent
abandonment of the property of the grantee in place, the property shall become
that of the City, and the grantee shall submit to the City Engineer an
instrument in writing, to be approved by the City Attorney, transferring to the
city the ownership of such property, except as may be included within the
provisions of any utility joint use attachment agreements. (Ord. 476, 10-25-
1983)
4-11-10: CHANGES REQUIRED BY PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS:
The grantee shall from time to time protect, support, dislocate, temporarily or
permanently as may be required, remove or relocate, without expense to the City
or any other govern mental entity, any facilities installed, used, and
maintained under the franchise, if and when made necessary by any lawful change
of grade, alignment, or width of any public street, including the construction
of any subway or viaduct, by the City or any other governmental entity, or made
necessary by any other public improvement or alteration in, under, on, upon or
about any public street or other public property, whether such public
improvements or alteration be at the instance of the City or another
governmental entity, and whether such improvement or alteration is for a
government or proprietary function, or made necessary by traffic conditions,
public safety, street vacation or any other public project or purpose of a City
or any other governmental entity. The decision of the City Engineer under this
Section shall be final and binding upon grantee. (Ord. 476, 10-25-1983)
4-11-11: FRANCHISE FEE:
Any grantee granted a franchise under this Chapter shall pay to the City,
during the life of such franchise, a sum equal to five percent (5%) of the
annual total gross receipts and in addition thereto, such other sums as may be
provided for elsewhere in this Chapter. If, during any part of the franchise
term, there is in effect a Federal or State limit regulating the franchise fee
percentage to a lesser amount, such a limitation shall apply but only for that
time period such limit is legally operational. Franchise fee payment by the
grantee to the City shall be made annually by delivery of the same to the City
Manager. Franchise payments required hereunder shall be in lieu of any business
license, occupation tax or similar levy.
The grantee shall file with the City Auditor, within ninety (90) days after the
expiration of the grantee's fiscal year or portion thereof during which such
franchise is in force, a balance sheet and statement of profit and loss
certified to by a certified public accountant, or person otherwise satisfactory
to the City Auditor, showing in detail the gross subscriber receipts, as
defined herein, of grantee during the preceding fiscal year, or portion
thereof. It shall be the duty of the grantee to pay to the City, within fifteen
(15) days after the time for filing such statements, the sum hereinabove
prescribed or any unpaid balance thereof for the fiscal year or portion thereof
covered by such statements.
The City shall have the right to inspect and audit the grantee's fiscal
records. If any independent audit of the grantee's records directed by the City
show a franchise fee error in excess of two percent (2%) in the City's favor,
the grantee shall assume all reasonable costs for said audit. No acceptance of
any payment shall be construed as a release or as an accord and satisfaction of
any claim the City may have for further additional sums payable under this
Section or for the performance of any other obligation hereunder. (Ord. 476,
10-25-1983)
4-11-12: FRANCHISE TERM, DURATION AND TERMINATION:
   (A)   The franchise granted by the Council under this Chapter shall be for a
maximum term of fifteen (15) years from the date of its acceptance by the
grantee(s).
   (B)   If grantee wishes to renew this franchise, within two (2) years of the
expiration date of this franchise, grantee shall file notice of request for
renewal of the franchise. Such request shall, at the minimum, specify the
following:
      1.   Justification, based on prior experience, for the extension.
      2.   Number of years of the requested franchise extension.
      3.   Changes, modifications, improvements, such as an increase in channel
capacity, services provided, or other additions/deletions grantee is proposing
to provide during the term of the requested extension.
      4.   Proposed rate schedules for all services and level of services
proposed.
      5.   Any and all other information grantee shall deem relevant to the
request.
Within ninety (90) days of receipt of the grantee's application for franchise
renewal, the City shall schedule hearings on the request with grantee. A final
decision and agreement between grantee and the City shall be resolved at the
earliest possible date, but in no event, later than fifteen (15) months prior
to the expiration of the existing franchise. In the event agreement is not
concluded prior to that time, notice shall be extended to the grantee of the
City's intent to reopen the franchise to interested applicants.
   (C)   The City may terminate any franchise granted pursuant to the
provisions of this Chapter in the event of the failure, refusal or neglect by
grantee to do or comply with any material requirement or limitation contained
in this Chapter, or any material, rule or regulation of the Council or City
Manager validly adopted pursuant to the Chapter.
   (D)   The City Manager may make written demand that the grantee comply with
any such requirement, limitation, term, condition, rule or regulation. If the
failure, refusal or neglect of the grantee continues for a period of thirty
(30) days following such written demand, the City Manager may place his request
for termination of the franchise upon the next regular Council meeting agenda.
The City Manager shall cause to be served upon such grantee, at least ten (10)
days prior to the date of such Council meeting, a written notice of his intent
to request such termination, and the time and place of the meeting, notice of
which shall be published by the City Clerk at least once ten (10) days before
such meeting in a newspaper of general circulation within the City.
   (E)   The Council shall consider the request of the City Manager and shall
hear any persons interested therein, and shall determine, in its discretion,
whether or not any failure, refusal or neglect by the grantee was with just
cause.
   (F)   If such failure, refusal or neglect by the grantee was with just
cause, the Council shall direct the grantee to comply within such time and
manner and upon such terms and conditions as are reasonable.
   (G)   If the Council shall determine such failure, refusal or neglect by the
grantee was without just cause, then the Council may, by resolution, declare
that the franchise of such grantee shall be terminated and forfeited, unless
there be compliance by the grantee within such period as the Council may fix,
or reduce the length of the franchise by a period of time up to the duration of
the failure and/or violation.
   (H)   If a court of competent jurisdiction ultimately determines that the
grantee does not have the right to continue operating, and there exists any
holding over after expiration of any franchise granted hereunder, without the
prior consent of the City, expressed by resolution, the grantee shall pay to
the City reasonable compensation and damages, of not less than one hundred
percent (100%) of its gross revenue during said period.
   (I)   The termination and forfeiture of any franchise shall in no way affect
any of the rights of the City under the franchise or any provisions of law.
(Ord. 476, 10-25-1983)
4-11-13: INTERCONNECTION:
In the event the County of Kern, along with other cable communications systems
within the County, develops and implements a County wide interconnection
network, the grantee shall make all reasonable efforts to electrically
interconnect the Taft CATV system with the County network for the purposes of
sharing programming. Such an interconnect shall be effected by coaxial cable,
fiber optic cable, microwave, or other bi-directional signal transportation
means as appropriate to permit programming interchange in compliance with the
technical provisions of the City's CATV franchise ordinance. (Ord. 476, 10-25-
1983)
4-11-14: PERFORMANCE EVALUATION SESSIONS:
   (A)   The City and grantee shall schedule performance analysis, evaluation
and review sessions within thirty (30) days of the fifth and tenth anniversary
dates of the award of any franchise granted hereunder. Additional, special
evaluations may be scheduled at any other time during the franchise term at
either the request of the City or the grantee. All such evaluation sessions
shall be open to the public and announced in a newspaper of general circulation
in accordance with legal notice.
   (B)   Topics which shall be reviewed and discussed include, but are not
limited to, service rates and charges, franchise fees and payment schedules,
penalties, free or discounted services, application of new or emerging
technologies, system performance, services provided, programming offered,
customer complaints and grantee complaint resolution procedures, and subscriber
privacy, amendments to the franchise, judicial and FCC rulings, line extension
policies and franchisee or City rules and regulations.
   (C)   During the review and evaluation by the City, the grantee shall fully
cooperate with the City and shall provide such information and documents as the
City may need to reasonably perform the review.
According to the provisions of Section
4-11-19, the City may elect to utilize the services of an independent cable
television consultant to conduct the review process, and the grantee shall bear
all reasonable costs associated therein.
   (D)   During the fifth and tenth year of the franchise, the City and the
grantee shall discuss the feasibility of increasing the channel capacity of the
cable system and the services offered to subscribers to a level comparable with
other cable systems operating in communities with similar characteristics
(e.g., homes pass ed, customer penetration levels, demographics, non-cable
competition for the same services, off-air signals available, etc.) within a
reasonable period of time, if justified by such factors as demand, cost, impact
on existing subscriber rates, and the availability of sufficient programming
and other services. Should the City and the grantee fail to reach agreement on
the question of the feasibility or extent of the expansion or the schedule for
implementation of the expansion, then such questions shall be decided by a
qualified independent consultant chosen by the City. However, if the grantee
does not concur in the City's selection of a consultant, grantee may select a
consultant, and the two (2) consultants shall then meet and select a third
qualified independent consultant who shall decide all issues relating to the
feasibility, extent, expansion and/or schedule for implementation regarding
those areas upon which the City and grantee fail to decide. The grantee shall
bear all the costs associated with all of the consultant's fees and tasks.
(Ord. 476, 10-25-1983)
4-11-15: RIGHT TO PRIVACY OF SUBSCRIBERS:
The grantee, by acceptance of the franchise, agrees to abide by and implement
all the provisions of AB 2735, chapter 1519 (section 637.5 of the California
Penal Code) as adopted September 28, 1982, dealing with subscriber privacy, and
upon mutual agreement between the City and grantee, any such additional
controls as may be adopted to protect the right of privacy of individual
subscribers, especially as such controls may be necessitated by implementation
of the interactive (two-way) features when such services become available.
(Ord. 476, 10-25-1983)
4-11-16: COMPLAINT PROCEDURE, REMEDIES FOR INADEQUATE SERVICE AND NOTICE:
   (A)   The following procedure shall be adhered to in the event of subscriber
com plaints or complaints by City residents:
      1.   Grantee shall establish procedures for receiving, acting upon and
resolving subscriber complaints to the satisfaction of the City Manager. The
grantee shall furnish a notice of such procedure to each subscriber at the time
of initial subscription to the system.
      2.   Maintain a written or computer record, or "log" listing date and
time of customer complaints, and determining the nature of the complaints and
when and what action was taken by the grantee in response thereto; such record
shall be kept at grantee's local office, reflecting the operations to date for
a period of at least three (3) years, and shall be available for inspection
during regular business hours without further notice or demand by the City
Manager.
      3.   In the event that a customer complaint is not resolved to the mutual
satisfaction of the customer or the grantee, either customer or the grantee may
request that the matter be presented to the City Manager for a hearing and
resolution.
      4.   When there have been similar complaints made or where there exists
other evidence which, in the judgment of the City Manager casts doubt on the
reliability or quality of cable service, or the grantee's ability to meet the
technical standards herein adopted, the City Manager shall have the right and
authority to compel the grantee to test, analyze, and report on the performance
of that part of the system involved in the problem. Such test or tests shall be
made and the reports of such test or tests shall be delivered to the City no
later than fourteen (14) days after the City formally notifies the grantee.
Such report shall include the following information:
         (a)   The nature of the complaint which precipitated the special test;
         (b)   What system component was tested;
         (c)   The equipment used and procedures employed in such testing;
         (d)   The names of the individuals performing and witnessing the
testing;
         (e)   The date, time, and location of testing;
         (f)   The results of such testing;
         (g)   The method in which such complaints were resolved.
Any other information pertinent to the special tests shall also be recorded.
The resultant report shall be submitted to the City Manager and will form the
basis for resolution. In the event either the subscriber or grantee determines
that the resolution was unsatisfactory, either may appeal the issue to the City
Council for a final and binding resolution. (Ord. 476, 10-25-1983)
4-11-17: APPLICATION FOR FRANCHISE:
   (A)   Each application for a franchise to construct, operate, or maintain
any cable television system(s) in the City shall be filed with the City Clerk
and shall contain the following:
      1.   The names, address and telephone number of the applicant;
      2.   A detailed statement of the corporate or other business entity
organization of the applicant, including but not limited to, the following, and
to whatever extent required by the City:
         (a)   The names, residence and business address of all officers,
directors and associates of the applicant.
         (b)   The names, residences, and business addresses of all officers,
persons and entities having controlling, or being entitled to have or control
of five percent (5%) or more of the ownership of the applicant and the
respective owner ship share of each such person or entity.
         (c)   The names and addresses of any parent or subsidiary of the
applicant, namely, any other business entity owning or controlling applicant in
whole or in part or owned or controlled in whole or in part by the applicant,
and a statement describing the nature of any such parent or subsidiary business
entity, including but not limited to cable television systems owned or
controlled by the applicant, its parent and subsidiary and the areas served
thereby.
         (d)   A detailed description of all previous experience of the
applicant in providing cable television system service and in related or
similar fields.
         (e)   A detailed and complete financial statement of the applicant,
prepared by an independent certified public accountant, for the fiscal year
next preceding the date of the application hereunder, or a letter or other
acceptable evidence in writing from a recognized lending institution or funding
source, addressed to both the applicant and Council, setting forth the basis
for a study performed by such lending institution or funding source, and a
clear statement of its intent as a lending institution to provide whatever
capital shall be required by the applicant to construct and operate the
proposed system in the City, or a statement from a certified public accountant,
certifying that the applicant has available sufficient free, net and
uncommitted cash resources to construct and operate the proposed system in this
City.
         (f)   A statement identifying, by place and date, any other cable
television franchise(s) awarded to the applicant, its parent or subsidiary; the
status of said franchise(s) with respect to completion thereof; the total cost
of completion of said system(s); and the amount of applicant's and its parent's
or subsidiary's resources committed to the completion thereof.
      3.   A detailed description of the proposed plan of operation of the
applicant which shall include, but not be limited to the following:
         (a)   A detailed map indicating all areas proposed to be served, and a
proposed time schedule for the installation of all equipment necessary to
become operational throughout the entire area to be served.
         (b)   A statement or schedule setting forth all proposed
classifications of rates and charges to be made against subscribers and all
rates and charges as to each of said classifications, including installation
charges and service charges.
         (c)   A detailed informative, and referenced statement describing the
actual equipment and operational standards proposed by the applicant and that
such standards of operations are in compliance with Section
4-11-5 of this Chapter.
         (d)   A copy of the form of any agreement undertaking, or other
instrument proposed to be entered into between the applicant and any
subscriber.
         (e)   A detailed statement setting forth in its entirety any and all
agreements and understandings, whether formal or informal, written, oral, or
implied, existing or proposed to exist between the applicant and any person,
firm, or corporation which materially relate or pertain to or depend upon the
application and the granting of the franchise.
      4.   A copy of any agreement covering the franchise area, if existing
between the applicant and any public utility subject to regulation by the
California Public Utilities Commission providing for the use of any facilities
of the public utility, including but not limited to poles, lines, or conduits.
      5.   Any other details, statements, information or reference pertinent to
the subject matter of such application which shall be required or requested by
the Council, or by any provision of any other ordinance of the City and any of
its Charter.
      6.   A nonrefundable application fee in the amount of three thousand
dollars ($3,000.00), which shall be in the form of cash, certified or cashier's
check, or money order, delivered to the City Clerk's office at the time
specified for filing applications.
   (B)   The Council may, by advertisement or any other means, solicit and call
for applications for cable television system franchises, and may determine and
fix any date upon or after which the same shall be received by the City, or the
date before which the same must be received, or the date after which the same
shall not be received, and may make any other determinations and specify any
other times, terms, conditions, or limitations respecting the soliciting,
calling for, making and receiving of such applications.
   (C)   Upon receipt of any application(s) for a cable communications system
franchise, the Council may refer the same to an independent cable television
consultant, appointed by the Council, who shall make an evaluation and prepare
a report and recommendation respecting such application(s), and cause the same
to be completed and filed with the Council.
   (D)   If the Council shall determine to further consider the application(s),
it shall pass a resolution setting a public hearing for the consideration of
competing applications; fixing and setting forth a day, hour, and place certain
when and where any persons having any interest therein or objections may file
written protests and/or appear before the Council and be heard, and directing
the City Clerk to publish said resolution at least once within ten (10) days of
the passage thereof in a newspaper of general circulation within the City.
   (E)   In making any determination hereunder as to any application for a new
franchise or renewal thereof, the Council may give due consideration to the
quality of the service proposed, rates to subscribers, income to the City,
experience, character, background, and financial responsibility of any
applicant, and its management and owners, technical and performance quality of
equipment, willingness and ability to meet construction and other deadlines,
and to abide by police decisions, franchise requirements, and other
considerations deemed pertinent by the Council for safeguarding and promoting
the interests of the City and the public.
   (F)   At the time set for the hearing, or at any adjournment thereof, the
Council shall proceed to hear all written protests and/or support. Thereafter,
the Council shall make one of the following determinations;
      1.   That such application(s) be denied, which determination shall be
final and conclusive; or,
      2.   That City staff and/or independent consultant enter into
negotiations for the determination of the terms of the final award of a
franchise with one or more of the applicants, and that the time for such
negotiations be limited to a time not to exceed ninety (90) days and that such
terms and conditions shall first be approved by Council, in which case the
Council may agree to:
         (a)   Award a nonexclusive franchise to one or more of the applicants;
or,
         (b)   Reject all applications and request new and/or additional
proposals.
   (G)   The Council may at any time demand and applicant(s) shall provide such
supplementary, additional or other information as the Council may deem
reasonably necessary to determine whether the requested franchise should be
granted.
   (H)   In the event of a franchise renewal, and/or extension of any franchise
granted herein, the City may waive any and all provision(s) of this Section.
(Ord. 476, 10-25-1983)
4-11-18: BINDING AGREEMENTS:
Each grantee awarded a franchise hereunder will provide a copy of the submitted
proposal for a cable communication system for the City in the case of new
franchisees, or a memorandum of understanding, or letter of agreement, for
franchise renewals or franchise transfers, as approved by the City Council, and
it will be adopted by resolution and act as the franchise award document and
each and every provision of said document will be hereby incorporated by
reference in this Chapter as though the same were set out in full and all
provisions included therein, as well as those specified herein, shall be
binding upon grantee. (Ord. 476, 10-25-1983)
4-11-19: COST TO BE BORNE BY GRANTEE:
The grantee shall assume all reasonable costs associated with an award of,
renewal or implementation of provisions of this Chapter and an ordinance
granting a franchise, including the following:
   (A)   Costs of publication of an ordinance granting a franchise, or any
change to this ordinance as such publication is required by law.
   (B)   Costs associated with the City employing an independent consultant to
assist with the development of the franchise ordinance, memorandum of
understanding, and/or agreement, and any negotiations required to grant, amend,
or enforce the provisions of the franchise ordinance and agreement.
   (C)   Costs of an independent engineering firm to witness the design,
installation and proof of performance testing of the system as a verification
of the grantee's adherence to the terms and conditions of the franchise.
At the City's option, the grantee may perform such tests and submit such
results to the City and the City may, at the grantee's costs, have the results
analyzed by an independent engineering firm.
   (D)   All fees related to construction of the CATV facilities, including,
but not limited to, City excavation permit fees, construction inspection fees,
and other City costs related to CATV installation and construction.
   (E)   City costs of advertising and noticing for any public hearings related
to rate increases or changes in this franchise. (Ord. 476, 10-25-1983)
4-11-20: RATES, CHARGES AND RATE INCREASES:
The service rates and installation and connection charges for CATV system use,
will be contained in either the grantee's proposal, memorandum of
understanding, or letter of agreement.
The City hereby confers upon any grantee awarded a franchise hereunder, the
prerogative to fix and set reasonable rates and charges for CATV system use
after the initial fifteen (15) month term, and until such time as the City
Council, by majority vote elects to, consistent with Federal and State laws,
assume the authority to regulate all applicable rates and charges.
Nothing contained herein shall constitute a waiver or bar to the exercise of
the City's right to regulate rates, when it is considered by the City to be in
the City's best interest to do so. (Ord. 476, 10-25-1983)
4-11-21: FAITHFUL PERFORMANCE BOND:
   (A)   The grantee shall concurrently with the filing of an acceptance of
award of any franchise granted under this Chapter, file with the City Clerk,
and at all times thereafter maintain in full force and effect for the term of
such franchise or renewal thereof, at grantee's sole expense, a corporate
surety bond in a company and in form and content approved by the City Attorney,
in the amount of twenty five thousand dollars ($25,000.00), renewable annually,
and conditioned upon the faithful performance of grantee, and upon the further
condition that in the event grantee fails to comply with any one or more of the
provisions of this Chapter, or of any franchise issued to the grantee
hereunder, there shall be recoverable by City or any other governmental entity
jointly and severally from the principal and surety of such bond:
      1.   Any amounts due to or expended by city or such other governmental
entity by reason of such failure of grantee;
      2.   Any damages or loss suffered by City or any such other governmental
entity as a result of any such failure;
      3.   Interest at ten percent (10%) per year from the date due as to the
amount finally determined, whether liquidated or not in amount when due; and,
      4.   In the event of litigation, the reasonable attorney's fees, court
costs and other expenses of City or any such other governmental entity in the
event City or such other governmental entity is the prevailing party; all up to
the full amount of the bond, provided that grantee's liability shall not be
limited to said amount.
The condition of said bond shall be a continuing obligation for the duration of
such franchise and any renewal thereof and thereafter until the grantee has
liquidated all of its obligations that may have arisen from the acceptance of
said franchise or renewal by the grantee or from its exercise of any privilege
therein granted. The bond shall provide that thirty (30) days' prior written
notice of intention not to renew, cancellation, or material change, be given to
the City, in which event grantee shall provide a substitute bond complying with
this Section in form and content approved by the City Attorney.
   (B)   Neither the provisions of this Section, nor any bond accepted by the
City pursuant hereto, nor any damages recovered by the City hereunder, shall be
construed to excuse faithful performance by the grantee or limit the liability
of the grantee under any franchise issued hereunder or for damages, either to
the full amount of the bond or otherwise.
   (C)   In lieu of said bond, grantee may deposit a surety fund in the amount
of twenty five thousand dollars ($25,000.00) cash with the City, or in a
Federal or State of California bank or savings and loan association in the name
of the City, but with interest reserved to the grantee.
In the event grantee shall fail to comply with any one or more of the
provisions of the Chapter, then the City shall have to right to withdraw from
such cash deposit any damages suffered by the City as a result thereof,
including the full amount of any compensation, liquidated damages,
indemnification, or cost of removal or abandonment of property as prescribed by
this Chapter which may be in default, up to the full amount of the cash
deposit. Grantee shall, as a condition of this Section, maintain the balance in
such a cash account so that any amounts withdrawn by the City pertinent to this
Section shall be replaced by the grantee within fifteen (15) days' notice of
withdrawal by the City. (Ord. 476, 10-25-1983)
4-11-22: INDEMNIFICATION OF THE CITY:
   (A)   The grantee shall, concurrently with the filing of an acceptance of
award of any franchise granted under this Chapter, furnish to the City and file
with the City Clerk, and at all times during the existence of any franchise
granted hereunder, maintain in full force and effect, at its own cost and
expense, a liability insurance policy in the amount of one million dollars
($1,000,000.00) in a company approved by the City Manager, and in a form
satisfactory to the City Attorney, naming as additional insureds, indemnifying
and holding harmless the City, its officers and employees from and against any
and all claims, demands, actions, suits and proceedings by others, against all
liability to others, including but not limited to any liability for damages by
reason of or arising out of any failure by the grantee to secure consents from
the owners, authorized distributors or licensees of programs to be delivered by
the grantee's CATV system, and against any loss, cost, expense and damages
resulting therefrom, including reasonable attorney's fees, arising out of the
exercise or enjoyment of its franchise, irrespective of the amount of the
comprehensive liability insurance policy required hereunder.
In lieu of such policy, the grantee may provide a notarized certificate of
self-insurance in like amounts and conditions, in a form acceptable to the City
Attorney, attesting to the provision of this Section, or, in the alternative,
the grantee may provide a notarized indemnity and hold harmless certificate,
showing a net worth of at least one million ($1,000,000.00) in a form
acceptable to the City Attorney, attesting to the provisions of this Section.
   (B)   The grantee shall, concurrently with the filing of an acceptance of
award of any franchise granted under this Chapter, furnish to the City and file
with the City Clerk, and at all times during the existence of any franchise
granted hereunder, maintain in full force and effect, at its own cost and
expense, a general comprehensive liability insurance policy, in protection of
the City, its officers, boards, commissions, agents and employees, in a company
approved by the City Manager, and a form satisfactory to the City Attorney,
protecting the City and all persons against liability for loss or damage for
personal injury, death and property damages, occasioned by the operations of
grantee under such franchise, with minimum liability limits of one million
dollars ($1,000,000.00) for personal injury or death of two or more persons in
any one occurrence, and fifty thousand dollars ($50,000.00) for damage to
property resulting from any one occurrence.
   (C)   The policies mentioned in subsection (B) of this Section shall name
the City, its officers, boards, commissions, agents and employees, as
additional insured and shall contain a provision that a written notice of
cancellation or reduction in coverage of said policy shall be delivered to the
City ten (10) days in advance of the effective date thereof. If such insurance
is provided by a policy which also covers grantee or any other entity or person
other than those above names, then such policy shall contain the standard
cross-liability endorsement. (Ord. 476, 10-25-1983)
4-11-23: INSPECTION OF PROPERTY AND RECORDS:
   (A)   At all reasonable times, the grantee shall permit any duly authorized
representative of the City to examine all property of the grantee together with
any appurtenant property of the grantee situated within or without the City,
and to examine and transcribe any and all maps and other records kept or
maintained by the grantee or under its control which deal with the operations,
affairs, transactions or property of the grantee with respect to its franchise,
except for that subscriber demographic data protected under Section
4-11-15 of this Chapter. If any such maps or records are not kept in the City,
or upon reasonable request made available in the City, and if the City Council
determines that an examination thereof is necessary or appropriate, then all
travel and maintenance expense necessarily incurred in making such examination
shall be paid by the grantee.
   (B)   The grantee shall prepare and furnish to the City Manager at the time
and in the form prescribed by said officer, such reports with respect to its
operations, affairs, transactions or property, as may be reasonably necessary
or appropriate to the performance of any of the rights, functions or duties of
the City or any of its officers in connection with the franchise.
   (C)   The grantee shall at all times make and keep in the City full and
complete plans and records, including technical maintenance manuals, showing
the exact location and description of all cable communications equipment and
component parts installed or in use in the cable system installed within the
City. (Ord. 476, 10-25-1983)
4-11-24: NONEXCLUSIVETY OF FRANCHISE:
Every franchise granted under this Chapter shall be nonexclusive. Neither the
granting of any franchise hereunder nor any of the provisions contained herein
shall be construed to prevent the City from granting any identical or similar
franchise to any other person, firm, or corporation, within all or any portion
of the City. (Ord. 476, 10-25-1983)
4-11-25: SERVICES:
Services shall be offered to all City residents in accordance with the
provisions of the franchise agreement and the grantee shall not reduce the
level of service provided, but may, at its discretion, substitute programming
to offer subscribers an equal or higher quality array of services. (Ord. 476,
10-25-1983)
4-11-26: LIMITATIONS OF FRANCHISE:
   (A)   No privilege or exemption shall be granted or conferred by any
franchise granted under this Chapter except those specifically prescribed
herein.
   (B)   Any privilege claimed under any such franchise by the grantee in any
public street or other public property shall be subordinate to any prior or
subsequent lawful occupancy or use thereof by the City or any other
governmental entity and shall be subordinate to any easements therein, whether
created prior or subsequent to the granting of any franchise hereunder.
   (C)   Any such franchise shall be a privilege to be held in personal trust
by the original grantee. It cannot in any event be sold, transferred, leased,
assigned or disposed of, in whole or in part, either by forced or involuntary
sales, or by voluntary sales, merger, consolidation, or otherwise, without the
prior consent of the Council expressed by resolution, after receipt of any
proposed contractual documents, including the considerations and then only
under such reasonable conditions as may in said resolution be prescribed,
provided however, that Council consent shall not be necessary for any transfer
or assignment to an affiliated entity which does not result in an actual change
in ultimate control of the franchise.
Any such transfer or assignment shall be made only by an instrument in writing,
a duly executed copy of which shall be filed in the office of the City Clerk
within thirty (30) days after any such transfer or assignment. The said consent
of the Council except as to assignment or transfers as specified in this
Chapter shall not be arbitrarily refused; provided, however, the proposed
assignee must show financial responsibility and must agree to comply with all
provisions of this Chapter and of the franchise, and, provided further, that no
such consent shall be required for a transfer in trust, mortgage, pledge, or
other hypothecation unless made to avoid or evade the other provisions of this
Chapter affecting transfers. A request for Council consent must be accompanied
with a fee of one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) to assist in defraying City
investigation expenses.
   (D)   The grantee shall not be relieved of his obligation to comply promptly
with any of the provisions of this Chapter or by any failure of the City to
enforce prompt compliance.
   (E)   Any right or power in, or duty impressed upon, any officer, employee,
department, or board of the City shall be subject to transfer by the City to
any other officer, employee, department, or board of the City.
   (F)   The grantee shall have no recourse whatsoever against the City for any
loss, cost, expense, or damage arising out of any provision or requirement of
this Chapter or of any franchise issued hereunder or because of its
enforcement.
   (G)   The grantee shall be subject to all requirements by City ordinances,
rules, regulations and specifications heretofore or hereafter enacted or
established, and shall comply with all applicable State and Federal laws and
regulations heretofore or hereafter enacted or established.
   (H)   Any such franchise granted shall not relieve the grantee of any
obligation involved in obtaining pole space from any department of the City,
utility company, or from others maintaining poles in streets.
   (I)   Any franchise granted hereunder shall be in lieu of any and all other
rights, privileges, powers, immunities, and authorities owned, possessed,
controlled or exercisable by grantee, or any successor to any interest of
grantee, of or pertaining to the construction, operation or maintenance of any
cable communications system in the City; and the acceptance of any franchise
hereunder shall operate, as between grantee and the City as an abandonment of
any and all of such rights, privileges, powers, immunities, and authorities
within the City, to the effect that, as between grantee and the City any and
all construction, operation and maintenance by any grantee of any cable
communication system in the City shall be, and shall be deemed and construed in
all instances and respects to be, under and pursuant to said franchise, and not
under or pursuant to any other right, privilege, power, immunity or authority
whatsoever. (Ord. 476, 10-25-1983)
4-11-27: RIGHTS RESERVED TO THE CITY:
   (A)   Nothing herein shall be deemed or construed to impair or affect, in
any way, to any extent, the right of the City to acquire the property of the
grantee, either by purchase or through the exercise of the right of eminent
domain, at a fair and just value of the ongoing business, which shall not
include any amounts expended to obtain the franchise, and nothing herein
contained shall be construed to contract away or to modify or abridge, either
for a term in perpetuity, the City's right of eminent domain.
In the event the City wishes to acquire part or all of the cable communications
system either by purchase or through the exercise of the right of eminent
domain, upon nonrenewal, expiration or cancellation of the franchise, City and
grantee will each appoint one appraiser to establish the value of the system to
be acquired by City. The two (2) appraisers will select a third appraiser who
will be chairman of the appraisal board. The board will, by majority vote,
determine the value of the system to be acquired by the City. This value will
be final and binding on both City and grantee and will be used as the purchase
price of just compensation in any purchase by the City or eminent domain
proceeding between City and grantee.
In the event of purchase by the City, or a change of grantee, the current
grantee shall cooperate with the City, or with a representative appointed by
the City, to operate the system for a temporary period in maintaining
continuity of service.
   (B)   There is reserved to the City every right and power which is required
to be herein reserved or provided by any ordinance of the City, and the
grantee, by acceptance of any franchise, agrees to be bound thereby and to
comply with any action or requirements of the City in its exercise of such
rights or power, heretofore or hereafter enacted or established.
   (C)   Consistent with the rights and obligations set forth herein, and
pursuant to its lawful exercise of the police power, there is reserved to the
City the power to amend any section or part of this Chapter so as to require
additional or greater standards of construction, operation, maintenance, level
of service, or other wise, on the part of the grantee, when such action can be
shown to be in the public's safety and/or welfare.
   (D)   Neither the granting of any franchise nor any provision hereof shall
constitute a waiver or bar to the exercise of any governmental right or power
of the City, now existing or hereafter granted.
   (E)   The Council may do all things which are necessary and convenient in
the exercise of its jurisdiction under this Chapter and may determine any
question of fact which may arise during the existence of any franchise granted
hereunder; provided, however, that nothing herein shall limit any party's right
to seek a judicial determination of any claim or controversy prior to or
following any determination made by the City Council. The City Manager and/or
his designee, is authorized and empowered to provide day-to-day administration
and enforcement of the provisions of this franchise. Such duties shall include,
but not be limited to, the following:
      1.   Recommendations to the City Council for action which may be
appropriate to ensure compliance with each and every provision of this Chapter.
      2.   Scheduling and implementation of the performance evaluations
required in Section
4-11-14, and enforcement with any resultant agreements and/or conditions.
      3.   Evaluation of the grantee's process for handling and resolving
customer complaints.
      4.   Evaluation of the grantee's adherence to the construction and
technical standards contained herein.
      5.   At the Council's direction, requests for system tests and/or
analysis.
      6.   Receipt of all data and reports required by this Chapter.
      7.   Verification of grantee compliance with applicable laws and
ordinances of the State of California and the County of Kern, and City of Taft.
   (F)   All notices which City may give to grantee or which grantee may give
to City, shall be given in writing and may be given by first class mail,
postage prepaid, addressed to grantee's most recent address on file with the
City, and addressed to the City at the official City Hall address. Such
notices, so sent by mail shall be deemed given one day after deposit in the
United States mail if so deposited in Kern county; otherwise they shall be
deemed given upon receipt. (Ord. 476, 10-25-1983)
4-11-28: USES PERMITTED TO GRANTEE:
Any franchise granted pursuant to the provisions of this Chapter shall
authorize and permit the grantee to engage in the business of operating and
providing a cable communications system in the City, and for that purpose to
install, erect, construct, repair, replace, reconstruct, maintain and retain
in, on, under, upon, across and along any public street, such wires, cables,
conductors, conduits, ducts, vaults, manholes, amplifiers, appliances,
attachments, and other property as may be necessary and appurtenant to the
cable communications system; and, in addition, so to use, operate and provide
similar facilities or properties rented or leased from other persons, firms, or
corporations, including but not limited to any public utility or other grantee
franchised or permitted to do business in the City.
The grantee may make a charge to subscribers for installation of or connection
to its cable communication system and a fixed monthly charge as filed and
approved as herein provided. (Ord. 476, 10-25-1983)
4-11-29: ACCEPTANCE OF AND EFFECTIVE DATE OF FRANCHISE:
   (A)   No franchise granted pursuant to the provisions of this Chapter shall
become effective until all things required in this Section and Sections
4-11-21 and
4-11-22, are done and completed, all of such things hereby declared to be
conditions precedent to the effectiveness of any such franchise granted
hereunder. In the event any of such things are not done and completed in the
time and manner required, the Council may declare the franchise null and void.
   (B)   Within thirty one (31) days after the effective date of the ordinance
awarding a franchise, or within such extended period of time as the Council in
its discretion may authorize, the grantee shall file with the City Clerk, his
written acceptance, in form satisfactory to the City Attorney, of the franchise
together with the bond and insurance policies specified herein, and his
agreement to be bound by and to comply with and to do all things required of
him by the provisions of this Chapter and the franchise. Such acceptance and
agreement shall be acknowledged by the grantee before a notary public, and
shall in form and content be satisfactory to and approved by the City Attorney.
(Ord. 476, 10-25-1983)
4-11-30: NO IMPAIRMENTS OF CONTRACT:
Pursuant to section 53066.1(p) of the California Government Code enacted by
statutes of 1982, neither the city nor any grantee shall be entitled, with
respect to any franchise agreement, to raise the defense of impairment of
contract in any case where the due and proper exercise of police power, or the
limits thereof, is at issue. (Ord. 476, 10-25-1983)
4-11-31: VIOLATIONS:
   (A)   From and after the effective date of this chapter, it is unlawful for
any person to construct, install or maintain within any public street in the
city, or within any other public property of the city, or within any privately
owned area within the city which has not yet become a public street but is
designated or delineated as a proposed public street on an adopted general plan
of arterial highways or on any tentative subdivision map approved by the city,
any equipment or facilities for distributing any television signals or radio
signals through a cable television communications system, unless a franchise
authorizing such use of such street or property or area has first been obtained
pursuant to the provisions of this chapter, and unless such franchise is in
full force and effect.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person to make any unauthorized connection,
whether physically, electrically, acoustically, inductively, or otherwise, with
any part of a franchised cable communication system within this city for the
purpose of taking or receiving television signals, radio signals, pictures,
programs or sound.
   (C)   It is unlawful for any person to make any unauthorized connection,
whether physically, electrically, acoustically, inductively, or otherwise, with
any part of a franchised cable communication system within this city for the
purpose of enabling himself or others to receive any television, radio signal,
picture, program or sound, without payment to the owner of said system.
   (D)   It is unlawful for any person, without the consent of the owner, to
wilfully tamper with, remove or injure any cables, wires or equipment used for
distribution of television signals, radio signals, pictures, programs or sound.
(Ord. 476, 10-25-1983)
   (E)   A violation of subsection (A), (B), (C), or (D) of this section, shall
constitute an infraction punishable by a fine not exceeding two hundred fifty
dollars ($250.00) for each and every offense. (Ord. 694-02, 8-20-2002)
CHAPTER 12
REAL PROPERTY TRANSFER TAX
SECTION:
4-12-1: Short Title
4-12-2: Tax Imposed
4-12-3: Tax Paid By Whom
4-12-4: Exemptions; Exceptions
4-12-5: Partnerships
4-12-6: Duties Of County Recorder
4-12-7: Claims For Refund
4-12-8: Operative Date
4-12-1: SHORT TITLE:
This Chapter shall be known as the "Real Property Transfer Tax Ordinance of the
City of Taft". It is adopted pursuant to the authority contained in part 6.7
(commencing with section 11901) of division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code
of the State of California. (Ord. 334, 12-4-1967)
4-12-2: TAX IMPOSED:
There is hereby imposed on each deed, instrument or writing by which any lands,
tenements, or other realty sold within the City shall be granted, assigned,
transferred or otherwise conveyed to, or vested in, the purchaser or
purchasers, or any other person by his direction, when the consideration or
value of the interest or property conveyed (exclusive of the value of any lien
or encumbrances remaining thereon at the time of sale) exceeds one hundred
dollars ($100.00), a tax at the rate of twenty seven and one-half cents
($0.275) for each five hundred dollars ($500.00) or fractional part thereof.
(Ord. 334, 12-4-1967)
4-12-3: TAX PAID BY WHOM:
Any tax imposed pursuant to Section
4-12-2 of this Chapter shall be paid by any person who makes, signs or issues
any document or instrument subject to the tax, or for whose use or benefit the
same is made, signed or issued. (Ord. 334, 12-4-1967)
4-12-4: EXEMPTIONS; EXCEPTIONS:
   (A)   Any tax imposed pursuant to this Chapter shall not apply to any
instrument in writing given to secure a debt.
   (B)   The United States or any agency or instrumentality thereof, any state
or territory, or political subdivision thereof, or the District of Columbia
shall not be liable for any tax imposed pursuant to this Chapter with respect
to any deed, instrument, or writing to which it is a party, but the tax may be
collected by assessment from any other party liable therefor.
   (C)   Any tax imposed pursuant to this Chapter shall not apply to the
making, delivering or filing of conveyances to make effective any plan of
reorganization or adjustment:
      1.   Confirmed under the Federal Bankruptcy Act, as amended;
      2.   Approved in an equity receivership proceeding in a court involving a
railroad corporation, as defined in subdivision (m) of section 205 of title 11
of the United States Code, as amended;
      3.   Approved in an equity receivership proceeding in a court involving a
corporation, as defined in subdivision (3) of section 506 of title 11 of the
United States Code, as amended; or
      4.   Whereby a mere change in identity, form or place of organization is
effected.
Subsections (C)1 to 4, inclusive, of this Section shall only apply if the
making, delivery or filing of instruments of transfer or conveyances, occurs
within five (5) years from the date of such confirmation, approval or change.
   (D)   Any tax imposed pursuant to this Chapter shall not apply to the making
or delivery of conveyances to make effective any order of the Securities and
Exchange Commission, as defined in subdivision (a) of section 1083 of the
Internal Revenue Code of 1954; but only if:
      1.   The order of the Securities and Exchange Commission in obedience to
which such conveyance is made recites that such conveyance is necessary or
appropriate to effectuate the provisions of section 79k of title 15 of the
United States Code, relating to the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935;
      2.   Such order specifies the property which is ordered to be conveyed;
      3.   Such conveyance is made in obedience to such order. (Ord. 334, 12-4-
1967)
4-12-5: PARTNERSHIPS:
   (A)   In the case of any realty held by a partnership, no levy shall be
imposed pursuant to this Chapter by reason of any transfer of an interest in a
partnership or otherwise, if:
      1.   Such partnership (or another partnership) is considered a continuing
partnership within the meaning of section 708 of the Internal Revenue Code of
1954; and
      2.   Such continuing partnership continues to hold the realty concerned.
   (B)   If there is a termination of any partnership within the meaning of
section 708 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954, for purposes of this Chapter,
such partnership shall be treated as having executed an instrument whereby
there was conveyed, for fair market value (exclusive of the value of any lien
or encumbrance remaining thereon), all realty held by such partnership at the
time of such termination.
   (C)   Not more than one tax shall be imposed pursuant to this Chapter by
reason of a termination described in subsection (B), and any transfer pursuant
thereto, with respect to the realty held by such partnership at the time of
such termination. (Ord. 334, 12-4-1967)
4-12-6: DUTIES OF COUNTY RECORDER:
The County Recorder shall administer this Chapter in conformity with the
provisions of part 6.7 of division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code and the
provisions of any County ordinance adopted pursuant thereto. (Ord. 334, 12-4-
1967)
4-12-7: CLAIMS FOR REFUND:
Claims for refund of taxes imposed pursuant to this Chapter shall be governed
by the provisions of chapter 5 (commencing with section 5096) of part 9 of
division 1 of the Revenue and Taxation Code of the State of California. (Ord.
334, 12-4-1967)
4-12-8: OPERATIVE DATE:
This Chapter shall become operative on the first day of January, 1968, at one
minute after twelve o'clock (12:01) midnight, which is also the operative date
of Ordinance No. G - 1004 adopted by the County of Kern, pursuant to part 6.7
(commencing with section 11901) of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code
of the State of California, or upon the effective date of this Chapter,
whichever is the later. (Ord. 334, 12-4-1967)
CHAPTER 13
SALE OF SAFE AND SANE FIREWORKS
SECTION:
4-13-1: Safe And Sane Fireworks
4-13-2: Fireworks Sale And Business License Required
4-13-3: Application For A License
4-13-4: Method Of Selecting Licensee And Notice Of Granting Or Rejection Of
License
4-13-5: Prerequisites To Issuance Of License
4-13-6: Operation Of The Stand
4-13-7: Temporary Fireworks Stands
4-13-8: General Requirements For Licensees
4-13-9: Temporary Sales Tax Permit Required
4-13-10: Display Of License And Sales Tax Permit
4-13-11: License Denial, Suspension, Revocation Of Firework License
4-13-12: Penalties
4-13-1: SAFE AND SANE FIREWORKS:
Safe and sane fireworks as defined in section 12529 of the Health And Safety
Code of the state may be sold and discharged within the city during the
following periods:
   (A)   Sales:
July 1: 12:00 noon to 11:00 P.M.
July 2 and 3: 6:00 A.M. to 11:00 P.M.
July 4: 6:00 A.M. to 12:01 A.M. of the next day
   (B)   Discharged:
July 1: 12:00 noon to 12:01 A.M. of the next day
July 2: 9:00 A.M. to 12:01 A.M. of the next day
July 3: 9:00 A.M. to 12:01 A.M. of the next day
July 4: 9:00 A.M. to 12:30 A.M. of the next day
(Ord. 807-15, 1-20-2015)
4-13-2: FIREWORKS SALE AND BUSINESS LICENSE REQUIRED:
Except as provided herein, no person shall offer for sale or sell at retail,
any fireworks of any kind in said city without having first applied for and
received a business license therefor. (Ord. 807-15, 1-20-2015)
4-13-3: APPLICATION FOR A LICENSE:
All applications for a license to sell fireworks shall:
   (A)   Be accompanied by a license fee for the sale of fireworks within the
city of twenty five dollars ($25.00) per year per stand, no part of which may
be waived or refunded.
   (B)   Be made in writing on the appropriate license application forms to be
provided by the city.
   (C)   Business license applications shall be submitted within two (2) weeks
after notification of the lottery drawing request has been granted pursuant to
section
4-13-4 of this chapter. The fireworks stands must be on private property
located in a general commercial (GC), mixed use (MU), or downtown commercial
(DC) zone, and be approved by the Taft planning director. Written permission of
the owner of record or lessee must accompany the business license application.
   (D)   Be accompanied by a site plan clearly indicating the location of the
fireworks stand. The site plan shall provide the address of the site, list the
applicant name and fireworks contractor's name, and fully dimension the
location of the fireworks stand pursuant to subsection
4-13-7(A) of this chapter.
   (E)   Be accompanied by an assurance that if the license is issued to the
applicant, the applicant shall at the time of the receipt of said license
provide a one million dollar ($1,000,000.00) public liability and a one million
dollar ($1,000,000.00) property damage insurance certificate designating the
city as the additional insured thereunder as follows: "The city of Taft, its
officers, agents, volunteers, and employees as well as county of Kern".
   (F)   Include a statement that the applicant agrees to comply strictly with
the terms of any permit granted to it and furnish any additional information
upon request of the planning director. (Ord. 807-15, 1-20-2015)
4-13-4: METHOD OF SELECTING LICENSEE AND NOTICE OF GRANTING OR REJECTION OF
LICENSE:
   (A)   Granting of the opportunity to acquire a safe and sane fireworks
license shall be selected by a lottery drawing, by the city council, each year
from qualified applicants.
   (B)   Applicants for such license shall be notified of the granting or
rejection as soon as practical after the second city council meeting in the
month of April. (Ord. 807-15, 1-20-2015)
4-13-5: PREREQUISITES TO ISSUANCE OF LICENSE:
The following qualifications must be met by each applicant for a license
hereunder:
   (A)   The organization must submit an organization application for safe and
sane lottery drawing between March 1 and March 31, except when the last day
falls on a Saturday or Sunday the following business day shall be determined to
be the last day.
   (B)   The organizations applying for a business license pursuant to section
4-13-3 of this chapter shall have been selected as prescribed by section
4-13-4 of this chapter.
   (C)   No license shall be issued to any person except nonprofit associations
or corporations organized primarily for veteran, patriotic, welfare, civic
betterment or charitable purposes. An "organization" shall be defined for the
purpose of this chapter to include any association and/or corporation and their
affiliate or auxiliary organizations which were organized for the above
prescribed purposes.
   (D)   Each organization must have its principal and predominant meeting
place in the corporate limits of said city, must maintain a bona fide
membership of at least twenty (20) members, and must have been organized and
established within the city's corporate limits for a minimum of one year
continuously preceding the filing of the request for lottery drawing
application.
   (E)   No organization may receive more than one license for fireworks sales
during any one calendar year. One license may be issued to two (2) or more
qualifying applicants as a joint venture. The maximum number of licenses which
may be issued pursuant to this section during any one calendar year shall not
exceed four (4).
   (F)   If a primary organization has multiple auxiliary or affiliated
organizations, the primary organization and one auxiliary or affiliate may
submit an application for the lottery drawing prescribed by section
4-13-4 of this chapter. If one of these organizations is selected, the other
will no longer be considered eligible for receipt of license that same year.
(Ord. 807-15, 1-20-2015)
4-13-6: OPERATION OF THE STAND:
   (A)   No person other than the licensee organization shall operate the stand
for which the license is issued or share or otherwise participate in the
profits of the operation of such stand.
   (B)   No person under age eighteen (18) shall be permitted in a fireworks
stand.
   (C)   No person other than the individuals who are members of the licensee
organization, the wives, husbands, adult children or adult volunteers of such
members, as long as they are covered by the licensee organization's liability
insurance, shall sell or otherwise participate in the sale of fireworks at such
stand.
   (D)   No person shall be paid any consideration for selling or otherwise
participating in the sale of fireworks at such stand.
   (E)   No person shall sell or transfer any safe and sane fireworks to a
person who is under sixteen (16) years of age from any fireworks stand. (Ord.
807-15, 1-20-2015)
4-13-7: TEMPORARY FIREWORKS STANDS:
All retail sales of "safe and sane" fireworks shall be permitted only from
within a temporary fireworks stand and sales from any other building or
structure is hereby prohibited. Temporary stands shall be subject to the
following provisions:
   (A)   No fireworks stand shall be located within:
      1.   Three feet (3') of a property line.
      2.   Ten feet (10') of a curb line, alley, street or driveway.
      3.   Twenty five feet (25') of a watchman's accommodations and
generators.
      4.   Fifty feet (50') of other buildings.
      5.   One hundred feet (100') of gasoline storage, gasoline pump, or
repair garage.
      6.   Five hundred feet (500') of other fireworks stands.
   (B)   Fireworks stands need not comply with the provisions of the building
code 1 of said city; provided, however, that all stands shall be erected so as
to meet the approval of the city building inspector, who shall require that the
stands be constructed in a manner that will reasonably ensure the safety of
attendants and patrons.
   (C)   No stand shall have a floor area in excess of three hundred (300)
square feet.
   (D)   Each stand must have at least two (2) exits; and each stand in excess
of forty feet (40') in length must have at least three (3) exits spaced
approximately equidistance apart; provided, however, that in no case shall the
distance between the exits exceed twenty four feet (24').
   (E)   Each stand shall provide at least two (2) 2A rated, currently
serviced, tagged extinguishers, readily accessible for use in the event of a
fire. (Ord. 807-15, 1-20-2015)
 
Notes
1 1. See title V, chapter 2 of this code.
4-13-8: GENERAL REQUIREMENTS FOR LICENSEES:
   (A)   All weeds and combustible material shall be cleared from the location
of the stand including a distance of at least twenty feet (20') surrounding the
stand.
   (B)   "No Smoking" signs shall be placed on prominent display on the
fireworks stand.
   (C)   Each stand must have an adult in attendance and in charge thereof
while fireworks are stored therein. The permittee shall provide an adult night
watchman to provide security during the hours of storage. Under no
circumstances shall the night watchman sleep within the fireworks stand.
   (D)   Each stand shall have available at all times, a telephone for
emergency purposes.
   (E)   All unsold stock and accompanying litter shall be removed from the
location by five o'clock (5:00) P.M. on July 6.
   (F)   The fireworks stand shall be removed from the temporary location by
twelve o'clock (12:00) noon on July 18, and all accompanying litter shall be
cleared from said location by the said time and date.
   (G)   Prior to the issuance of a license, each applicant shall file with the
city treasurer a cash deposit, a certificate of deposit or a surety bond made
payable to the city in the amount of one hundred dollars ($100.00) to assure
compliance with the provisions of this chapter. Such deposit or certificate
shall be made refundable upon compliance with the provisions and requirements
of this chapter including, but not limited to, the removal of the stand and
cleaning of the site.
In the event that the licensee does not comply or remove the stand or clean the
site in the manner required by the city building inspector the city may do so,
or cause the same to be done by another person, and the reasonable cost thereof
shall be charged against the licensee and his surety and the deposit
certificate or bond.
   (H)   All required permits for auxiliary buildings or services shall be the
responsibility of the individual applicant. (Ord. 807-15, 1-20-2015)
4-13-9: TEMPORARY SALES TAX PERMIT REQUIRED:
Organizations licensed for the selling of fireworks are required to obtain a
temporary sales tax permit from the regional office of the state board of
equalization. (Ord. 807-15, 1-20-2015)
4-13-10: DISPLAY OF LICENSE AND SALES TAX PERMIT:
License to sell fireworks and temporary sales tax permit shall be displayed in
a prominent place in the fireworks stand. (Ord. 807-15, 1-20-2015)
4-13-11: LICENSE DENIAL, SUSPENSION, REVOCATION OF FIREWORK LICENSE:
City has right to deny, suspend, revoke license in accordance with process and
procedures of section 4-2-9. (Ord. 852-23, 7-18-2023)
4-13-12: PENALTIES:
Persons violating this chapter shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, unless
the enforcing enforcement officer or the city attorney or his or her designed
representative, determines it to be an infraction. The City's fine schedules
pursuant to section
1-1-11 or 8-14-4 shall apply, as the case may be. (Ord. 807-15, 1-20-2015; amd.
Ord. 852-23, 7-18-2023)
CHAPTER 14
CONDUCT OF BINGO
SECTION:
4-14-1: Organizations Eligible For City Licenses To Conduct Bingo Games
4-14-2: Application For License
4-14-3: Applicant Must Be Qualified
4-14-4: Contents Of Application
4-14-5: Investigation Of Applicant
4-14-6: Contents Of License
4-14-7: Summary Suspension Of License Pending Opportunity For Hearing
Misdemeanor To Continue After Suspension; Revocation
4-14-8: Revocation Of License; Alternative Procedure
4-14-9: Appeal Of Revocation To City Council
4-14-10: Definition Of Bingo
4-14-11: Maximum Amount Of Prize
4-14-12: Profits Or Proceeds To Be Kept In Separate Fund Or Account
4-14-13: Financial Interest In Licensee Only
4-14-14: Exclusive Operation By Licensee
4-14-15: Bingo Games Open To Public
4-14-16: Attendance Limited To Occupancy Capacity
4-14-17: Bingo Games Conducted Only On Licensee's Property
4-14-18: Minors Not To Participate
4-14-19: Intoxicated Person Not To Participate
4-14-20: Hours Of Operation
4-14-21: Participant Must Be Present
4-14-22: Financial Report Required
4-14-23: Receipt Or Payment Of Profit By A Person Is A Misdemeanor Under State
Law
4-14-24: City May Enjoin Violation
4-14-25: Severability
4-14-1: ORGANIZATIONS ELIGIBLE FOR CITY LICENSES TO CONDUCT BINGO GAMES:
The following are eligible to apply to the City for a license to conduct bingo
games in the City under the provisions of section 326.5 of the Penal Code of
the State and the provisions of this Chapter.
   (A)   Organizations exempted from the payment of the bank and corporation
tax by sections 23701(a), 23701(b), 23701(d), 23701(e), 23701(f), 23701(g), and
23701(i) of the Revenue and Taxation Code of the State.
   (B)   Mobile home park associations; and
   (C)   Senior citizens organizations with a membership requiring that the
member, or the member's spouse, be fifty (50) years of age or older. (Ord. 398,
10-3-1977)
4-14-2: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
Eligible organizations desiring to obtain such license to conduct bingo games
in the City shall file an application in writing therefor in the City Hall on a
form to be provided by the City. The issuing authority shall be the City
Manager. The license shall be for a term of one year from the date of issuance,
subject to renewal and annual fee. (Ord. 398, 10-3-1977)
4-14-3: APPLICANT MUST BE QUALIFIED:
No license shall be issued to any organization unless such applicant is an
eligible organization under Section
4-14-1 and its application conforms to the requirements, terms and conditions
of this Chapter. (Ord. 398, 10-3-1977)
4-14-4: CONTENTS OF APPLICATION:
Said application for a license shall contain the following:
   (A)   The name of the applicant organization or association and a statement
that applicant is an eligible organization or association under Section
4-14-1 of this Chapter.
   (B)   The name and signature of at least two (2) officers, including the
presiding officer, of the applicant organization or association.
   (C)   The particular property within the City including the street number,
owned or leased by the applicant, used by such applicant for an office or for
performance of the purposes for which the applicant is organized, on which
property bingo games will be conducted, together with the occupancy capacity of
such a place.
   (D)   Proposed days of week and hours of day for conduct of bingo games.
   (E)   That the applicant agrees to conduct bingo games in strict accordance
with the provisions of section 326.5 of the Penal Code of this Chapter, as they
may be amended from time to time and agrees that the license to conduct bingo
games may be revoked by the City Manager upon violation of any such provisions.
   (F)   Said application shall be signed by the applicant under penalty of
perjury.
   (G)   The annual license fee, not to exceed fifty dollars ($50.00) fixed by
the City Council shall accompany the application.
   (H)   The applicant shall also submit, with its application, a certificate
or determination of exemption under one of the Revenue and Taxation Code
sections listed in subsection (A) of Section
4-14-1 of this Chapter or a letter of good standing from the Exemption Division
of the Franchise Tax Board in Sacramento, showing the required exemptor status;
in the case of an applicant Mobile Home Park Association, the applicant shall
submit a statement that the members thereof are residents of a duly permitted
mobile home park located within the City; in the case of an applicant Senior
Citizens organization, the applicant shall submit a statement specifying the
qualifications for membership in such organization. Mobile Home Park
Associations and Senior Citizens organizations are not required to be exempted
from the bank and corporation tax. (Ord. 398, 10-3-1977)
4-14-5: INVESTIGATION OF APPLICANT:
Upon receipt of the completed application and the fee, the City Manager shall
refer the same to interested departments in the City, including but not limited
to, the City Manager, City Attorney, Police Department, and the Fire
Department, for investigation as to whether or not all the statements in the
application are true and whether or not the property at the applicant qualifies
and the extent to which it qualifies, as property on which bingo games may
lawfully be conducted, as to fire, occupancy, and other applicable
restrictions. (Ord. 398, 10-3-1977)
4-14-6: CONTENTS OF LICENSE:
Upon being satisfied that the applicant is fully qualified, under the law, to
conduct bingo games in the City, the City Manager shall issue a license to said
applicant, which shall contain the following information:
   (A)   The name and nature of the organization to whom the license is issued.
   (B)   The address where bingo games are authorized to be conducted.
   (C)   The occupancy capacity of the room in which bingo games are to be
conducted.
   (D)   The date of the expiration of such license.
   (E)   Such other information as may be necessary or desirable for the
enforcement of the provisions of this Chapter. (Ord. 398, 10-3-1977)
4-14-7: SUMMARY SUSPENSION OF LICENSE PENDING OPPORTUNITY FOR HEARING
MISDEMEANOR TO CONTINUE AFTER SUSPENSION; REVOCATION:
   (A)   Whenever it appears to the Chief of Police that the licensee is
conducting a bingo game in violation of any of the provisions of this Chapter,
the Chief of Police shall have the authority to summarily suspend the license
and order the licensee to immediately cease and desist any further operation of
any bingo game.
   (B)   Any person who continues to conduct a bingo game after any summary
suspension thereof under subsection (A) shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor
and upon conviction thereof, shall be punishable by a fine not exceeding five
hundred dollars ($500.00) or by imprisonment in the County jail for a period
not exceeding six (6) months, or both such fine and imprisonment.
   (C)   The order issued under subsection (A) shall also notify the licensee
that it shall have five (5) days from the date of such order to request a
hearing before the City Manager to determine whether such license shall be
revoked. Failure to request, in writing, such hearing before the City Manager
within the five (5) day period, shall result in revocation of the license.
   (D)   Upon such request by the licensee, whose license has been suspended
under subsection (A), for a hearing to determine whether such license shall be
revoked, the City Manager shall provide such hearing within ten (10) days after
receipt of such request at which hearing the suspended licensee may appear
before the City Manager for the purpose of presenting evidence why the license
should not be revoked. No license shall be revoked under this Section unless
notice of the time and place of such hearing shall have first been given at
least five (5) days before the hearing hereof by depositing in the United
States mail a notice directed to said suspended licensee at the address given
in the application. The notice shall set forth a summary of the ground advanced
as the basis of the suspended and revocation.
   (E)   Any organization whose license is revoked under this Section shall not
conduct any bingo games in the City until such time as the City Council, on
appeal, determines to overrule the decision of the City Manager. (Ord. 398, 10-
3-1977)
4-14-8: REVOCATION OF LICENSE; ALTERNATIVE PROCEDURE:
   (A)   Whenever it appears to the City Manager that the licensee is
conducting bingo games in violation of any of the provisions of this Chapter,
or that the license was obtained by fraudulent representation and no summary
suspension is ordered, under Section
4-14-7, the license may be revoked; provided, however, the licensee may appear
before the City Manager at the time fixed by the City Manager, for the purpose
of presenting evidence why the license should not be revoked. No license shall
be revoked under this Section unless written notice shall have first been given
at least five (5) days before the hearing thereof by depositing in the United
States Mail a notice directed to said licensee at the address given in the
application. The notice shall set forth a summary of the ground advanced as the
basis of revocation.
   (B)   Any organization whose license is revoked under this Section shall not
conduct any bingo game in the City until such time as the City Council on
appeal, determines to overrule the decision of the City Manager. (Ord. 398, 10-
3-1977)
4-14-9: APPEAL OF REVOCATION TO CITY COUNCIL:
   (A)   Any holder of a license whose license is revoked under this Chapter
shall have the right, within ten (10) days after receiving notice in writing of
the revocation, to file a written appeal to the City Council. Such appeal shall
set forth specific ground or grounds on which it is based. The City Council
shall hold a hearing on the appeal within thirty (30) days after its receipt by
the City, or at a time thereafter agreed upon and shall cause the appellant to
be given at least ten (10) days written notice of such hearing. At the hearing
the appellant or its authorized representative shall have the right to present
evidence and a written or oral statement, or both, in support of his appeal.
The determination of the City Council on the appeal shall be final.
   (B)   Any organization whose license is finally revoked may not again apply
for a license to conduct bingo games in the City for a period of one year from
the date of such revocation; provided, however, if the ground for revocation is
cancellation of the exemption granted under one of the Revenue and Taxation
Code sections listed in subsection (A) of Section
4-14-1 of this Chapter, such organization may again apply for a license upon
proof of reinstatement of said exemption. (Ord. 398, 10-3-1977)
4-14-10: DEFINITION OF BINGO:
As used in this Chapter "bingo" means a game of chance in which prizes are
awarded on the basis of designated numbers or symbols on a card which conform
to numbers or symbols selected at random. (Ord. 398, 10-3-1977)
4-14-11: MAXIMUM AMOUNT OF PRIZE:
The total value of prizes awarded during the conduct of any bingo games shall
not in any event exceed two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) in cash or kind, or
both for each separate game which is held; if such prize for any separate game
or drawing is less than said maximum amount, the amount of any subsequent prize
may not include accumulation of any difference between the prize given and the
maximum of two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00). (Ord. 398, 10-3-1977)
4-14-12: PROFITS OR PROCEEDS TO BE KEPT IN SEPARATE FUND OR ACCOUNT:
   (A)   With respect to organizations exempt from payment of the bank and
corporation tax by section 23701(d) of the Revenue and Taxation Code, all
profits derived from a bingo game shall be kept in a special fund or account
and shall not be commingled with any other fund or account. Such profits shall
be used only for charitable purposes.
   (B)   With respect to any organization authorized to conduct bingo games
pursuant to this Chapter, all proceeds derived from a bingo game shall be kept
in a special fund or account and shall not be commingled with any other fund or
account. Such proceeds shall be used only for charitable purposes, except as
follows:
      1.   Such proceeds may be used for prizes.
      2.   A portion of such proceeds not to exceed ten percent (10%) of the
proceeds after the deduction of prizes, or five hundred dollars ($500.00) per
month, whichever is less, may be used for rental of property, overhead, and
administrative expenses. (Ord. 398, 10-3-1977)
4-14-13: FINANCIAL INTEREST IN LICENSEE ONLY:
No individual, corporation, partnership or other legal entity except the
licensee shall hold a financial interest in the conduct of such bingo game.
(Ord. 398, 10-3-1977)
4-14-14: EXCLUSIVE OPERATION BY LICENSEE:
A bingo game shall be operated and staffed only by members of the licensee
organization. Such members shall not receive a profit, wage, or salary from any
bingo game. Only the licensee shall operate such a game, or participate in the
promotion, supervision or any other phases of such game. (Ord. 398, 10-3-1977)
4-14-15: BINGO GAMES OPEN TO PUBLIC:
All bingo games shall be open to the public, not just to the members of the
licensee organization. (Ord. 398, 10-3-1977)
4-14-16: ATTENDANCE LIMITED TO OCCUPANCY CAPACITY:
Notwithstanding that bingo games are open to the public, attendance at any
bingo game shall be limited to the occupancy capacity of the room in which such
game is conducted as determined by the Fire Department and Building Department
of the City in accordance with applicable laws and regulations. Licensee shall
not reserve seats or space for any one person. (Ord. 398, 10-3-1977)
4-14-17: BINGO GAMES CONDUCTED ONLY ON LICENSEE'S PROPERTY:
A Licensee shall conduct a bingo game only on property owned or leased by it,
and which property is used by such organization for an office or for
performance of the purposes for which the organization is organized. The
license issued under this Chapter shall authorize the holder thereof to conduct
bingo games only on such property, the address of which is stated in the
application. In the event the described property ceases to be used as an office
and as a place for performance of the purposes for which the licensee is
organized, the license shall have no further force or effect. A new license may
be obtained by an eligible organization, upon application under this Chapter,
when it again owns or leases property used by it for an office or for
performance of the purposes for which the organization is organized. Nothing in
this Section shall be construed to require that the property owned or leased by
the licensee be used or leased exclusively by such organization. (Ord. 398, 10-
3-1977)
4-14-18: MINORS NOT TO PARTICIPATE:
No person under the age of eighteen (18) years of age shall be allowed to
participate in any bingo game. (Ord. 398, 10-3-1977)
4-14-19: INTOXICATED PERSONS NOT TO PARTICIPATE:
No person who is obviously intoxicated shall be allowed to participate in a
bingo game. (Ord. 398, 10-3-1977)
4-14-20: HOURS OF OPERATION:
No licensee shall conduct any bingo game more than six (6) hours out of any
twenty four (24) hour period. No bingo game shall be conducted before ten
o'clock (10:00) A.M. nor after two o'clock (2:00) A.M. of any day. (Ord. 398,
10-3-1977)
4-14-21: PARTICIPANT MUST BE PRESENT:
No person shall be allowed to participate in a bingo game, unless the person is
physically present at the time and place in which the bingo game is being
conducted. (Ord. 398, 10-3-1977)
4-14-22: FINANCIAL REPORT REQUIRED:
   (A)   Each licensee shall keep a complete and accurate written record in
connection with its operation, conduct, promotion, supervision and any other
phase of bingo games which are authorized by this Chapter. Such record shall
account for all money so received and disbursed and shall include the
following: with respect to organizations exempt from payment of the bank and
corporation tax by section 23701(d) of the Revenue and Taxation Code:
      1.   The value in cash and/or kind, of the prize awarded in each separate
bingo game played and the date thereof.
      2.   Total amount of expenses paid for operation, conduct, promotion and
supervision of bingo games, including the total amount paid out for prizes,
during every six (6) month period.
      3.   Total amount of profits derived from bingo games during the six (6)
month period, which are disbursed from the special fund or account for
charitable purposes, including the amount disbursed to the licensee
organization.
With respect to other licenses:
         (a)   The value in cash and/or kind, the prize awarded in each
separate bingo game played and the date thereof.
         (b)   Total proceeds derived from bingo games for each monthly period.
         (c)   Total disbursements from the special fund or account for prizes
for each monthly period.
         (d)   Total disbursements of proceeds, from the special fund or
account, for rental of property, overhead and administrative expenses for each
such monthly period.
         (e)   Total disbursements of proceeds, from the special fund or
account, used for charitable purposes for each such monthly period.
         (f)   Designation of the charitable purpose or purposes for which any
proceeds are used, and the amount thereof, for each such monthly period.
         (g)   Amount remaining in the special fund or account at the end of
each such monthly period.
   (B)   Each licensee licensed after the effective date of this Chapter shall
transmit a copy of the record required by this Section to the City Manager of
the City twelve (12) months from the date of license granted hereunder and
every twelve (12) months thereafter. A ten (10) day grace period following such
twelve (12) month period shall be given for the filing of such report.
   (C)   The City by and through its authorized officers or employees, or
agents, shall have the right to examine and audit original records of the
licensee pertaining to bingo at any reasonable time and licensee shall fully
cooperate with City by making such records available. (Ord. 398, 10-3-1977)
4-14-23: RECEIPT OR PAYMENT OF PROFIT BY A PERSON IS A MISDEMEANOR UNDER STATE
LAW:
It is a misdemeanor under section 326.5(b) of the Penal Code of the State for
any person to receive or pay any profit, wage, or salary from any bingo game
authorized under this Chapter, a violation which is punishable by a fine not to
exceed ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00), which fine shall be deposited in the
general fund of the City. A violation of any provisions of section 326.5 of the
Penal Code, other than subdivision (b) is a misdemeanor punishable by
imprisonment in the County jail not exceeding six (6) months or by a fine not
exceeding five hundred dollars ($500.00), or both. (Ord. 398, 10-3-1977)
4-14-24: CITY MAY ENJOIN VIOLATION:
The City may bring an action in a court of competent jurisdiction to enjoin a
violation of section 326.5 of the Penal Code or of this Chapter. (Ord. 398, 10-
3-1977)
4-14-25: SEVERABILITY:
If any section, subsection or portion of this Chapter is for any reason held to
be invalid or unconstitutional by the decision of any court of competent
jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the validity of the remaining
portion of this Chapter. The City Council hereby declares that it would have
adopted this Chapter and each section, subsection, and portion thereof,
irrespective of the fact that any one or more sections, subsections or portions
be declared invalid or unconstitutional. (Ord. 398, 10-3-1977)
CHAPTER 15
ALARM SYSTEMS
SECTION:
4-15-1: Purpose
4-15-2: Scope
4-15-3: Definitions
4-15-4: Enforcement Provisions
4-15-5: Violations And Penalties
4-15-6: Appeals
4-15-7: Severability
4-15-8: Alarm Requirements And Provisions
4-15-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to set forth regulations governing emergency
response alarm systems within the city, and provide penalties for violations of
this chapter. (Ord. 506, 2-17-1986)
4-15-2: SCOPE:
The city council of the city hereby finds that the regulation of the use of
alarms systems and the control of false alarms is necessary for the health,
welfare, and safety of the citizens of Taft as well as the safety of Taft peace
officers. (Ord. 506, 2-17-1986)
4-15-3: DEFINITIONS:
ALARM COMPANY OPERATOR: Any business with a required state license operated for
any consideration whatsoever, engaged in the installation, maintenance,
alteration, or servicing an alarm system.
ALARM SYSTEM: Is an assembly of equipment and devices arranged to signal the
commission of a crime or signals the need for emergency police response.
AUTOMATIC DIALING DEVICE: Any alarm system which automatically sends over
regular telephone lines, by direct connection or otherwise, a prerecorded
message or coded signal indicating the existence of the emergency situation
that the alarm is designed to detect.
FALSE ALARM: The activation of an alarm system through mechanical failure,
malfunction, improper installation, or the negligence of the owner or lessee of
an alarm system or of his employees or agents. Such terminology does not
include, for example, alarms caused by tornados, earthquakes, or other violent
conditions.
SUBSCRIBER: Any person who purchases, leases, contracts for or otherwise
obtains an alarm system. (Ord. 506, 2-17-1986)
4-15-4: ENFORCEMENT PROVISIONS:
The enforcing authority is directed to administer and enforce the provisions of
this chapter. The enforcing authority shall be the Taft police department.
(Ord. 506, 2-17-1986)
4-15-5: VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES:
   (A)   Infraction: It shall be unlawful for any person to install, use or
maintain any alarm system contrary to or in violation of any of the provisions
of this chapter. Any person violating the provisions of this chapter is guilty
of an infraction. (Ord. 694-02, 8-20-2002)
   (B)   Violations: The occurrence of false alarms shall result in a charge or
termination of the police response service as follows: For any two (2) false
alarms within any thirty (30) day period, or for any one additional false alarm
within a total sixty (60) day period from the first false alarm within a total
of ninety (90) days from the first false alarm, or for any six (6) false alarms
within one hundred eighty (180) day period, the following charges shall be
imposed: ten dollars ($10.00) for the first offense; twenty dollars ($20.00)
for the second offense; and thirty dollars ($30.00) for the third and any
subsequent offenses. However, notwithstanding the provision of such charges,
the Chief of Police may review the frequency of false alarms in any case and
where excessive, or where he determines that inadequate efforts have been made
to correct a false alarm problem, he may discontinue response to such alarms by
the Police Department after having first given notice to the alarm subscriber
allowing said subscriber an opportunity to be heard prior to the termination of
response by the Department. Any subscriber who is dissatisfied with the
decision of the Chief of Police may appeal such decision to the City Council by
filing written request for a hearing within five (5) days after the Chief of
Police renders his decision. In the event the Chief of Police determines that
response shall be terminated such term shall become effective on the date of
the notice of decision issued by the Chief of Police and shall remain effective
until such time as rescinded by Chief of Police or modified or rescinded by
City Council upon appeal.
   (C)   Exceptions: The following exceptions shall be considered in reviewing
any false alarm situation.
      1.   A thirty (30) days adjustment period to correct mechanical problems
may be allowed for any new, improved or replaced alarm system.
      2.   Where the false alarms in question were the result of conditions
beyond the control of the user, and were not the result of negligence of
himself or his employees or agents, or where such false alarms resulted from
defects in the system of which the user neither had knowledge nor in the
exercise of reasonable care should have had knowledge, then the Chief of Police
may determine that no charge or termination shall be effected.
   (D)   Notice: Should any users violate these provisions, the enforcing
authority shall notify the subscriber and the alarm company operator providing
service or inspection to the user of such fact by mail. The enforcing authority
will also notify the user of any surcharges or intent to discontinue police
service. (Ord. 506, 2-17-1986)
4-15-6: APPEALS:
In order to prevent or lessen the unnecessary hardship of practical
difficulties in exceptional cases where it is difficult or impossible to comply
with the strict letter of this Chapter, the subscriber or alarm company
operator have the option to apply for an exemption from any provision of this
Chapter to the City Council. The City Council shall exercise its powers on
these matters in such a way that the public welfare is secured, and substantial
justice done most nearly in accord with the intent and purpose of this Chapter.
(Ord. 506, 2-17-1986)
4-15-7: SEVERABILITY:
If any provision of this Chapter or the application thereof to any person or
circumstances is held invalid, such invalidity shall not affect other
provisions or applications of this Chapter which can be given without the
invalid provision or application, and to this end the provisions of this
Chapter are severable. (Ord. 506, 2-17-1986)
4-15-8: ALARM REQUIREMENTS AND PROVISIONS:
   (A)   Alarm System, Automatic Dialing Devices: It shall be unlawful for any
person except a public utility engaged in the business of providing
communication services and facilities to use or operate, attempt to use or
operate, or cause to be used or operated, or arrange, adjust, program, or
otherwise provide, or to install any alarm system that will upon activation,
either mechanically, electronically, or by other automatic means, initiate a
call and deliver a recorded message to any telephone number assigned to any
subscriber by a public telephone without the prior written consent of the
subscriber. In no event will an automatic dialing device terminate in a police
or fire facility.
   (B)   Radio Transmission Alarms: A radio transmission alarm is any device or
alarm when activated, sends a prerecorded message over any public safety radio
frequency. Radio transmission alarms will not be allowed for use in the City.
   (C)   Monitoring Of Silent Alarms: Alarm companies that currently have
alarms installed at the Taft Police Department will have a period of sixty (60)
days from the effective date of this Chapter to remove and relocate these
alarms. (Ord. 506, 2-17-1986)
CHAPTER 16
TOWING SERVICES
SECTION:
4-16-1: Definitions
4-16-2: Purpose And Intent
4-16-3: Permit Required
4-16-4: Term Of Permits
4-16-5: Adoption Of Rules And Regulations
4-16-6: Nontransferable
4-16-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this Chapter, the following words and phrases shall have the
meanings ascribed to them in this Chapter as follows:
TOW TRUCK: A motor vehicle which has been altered, designed or equipped for and
exclusively used in the business of towing vehicles by means of a crane, tow
bar, towline or dolly, or is otherwise exclusively used to render assistance to
other vehicles.
TOWING SERVICE: Providing a tow truck in response to a police dispatch in
police emergency situations or in response to orders or requests for towing
service by members of the Police Department pursuant to the provisions of law.
(Ord. 488, 4-3-1984)
4-16-2: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
The purpose of this Chapter is to provide a fair and impartial means of
distributing police emergency requests for towing services among qualified
firms, and to insure that such service is prompt, in the public interest, and
efficient for police operations requiring removal of vehicles from public
streets. It is not the purpose to regulate tow trucks or towing services other
than those dispatched by the police in emergency situations. (Ord. 488, 4-3-
1984)
4-16-3: PERMIT REQUIRED:
In order to be eligible to receive City referrals or assignments, a towing
service shall first have obtained a referral service permit. No person shall
operate a towing service unless such person has a valid permit obtained
pursuant to the terms of this Chapter. A permit issued hereunder is in addition
to any business license which such business must possess under any other law or
ordinance. (Ord. 488, 4-3-1984)
4-16-4: TERM OF PERMITS:
Permits issued pursuant to this Chapter shall be valid until revoked as
provided herein. (Ord. 488, 4-3-1984)
4-16-5: ADOPTION OF RULES AND REGULATIONS:
The City Council shall adopt, by resolution, the procedures for obtaining a
towing service permit and the rules and regulations governing such towing
service permittees. (Ord. 488, 4-3-1984)
4-16-6: NONTRANSFERABLE:
Each permit issued pursuant to this Chapter is personal to the permittee and is
nontransferable and any sale, transfer, assignment, lease or sublease of a tow
truck or towing service shall void the permit issued hereunder. (Ord. 488, 4-3-
1984)
CHAPTER 17
CARD ROOMS
SECTION:
4-17-1: Definitions
4-17-2: Conformance With State Law
4-17-3: No Vested Right
4-17-4: Other Permits Required
4-17-5: Card Room Permit Conditions
4-17-6: Resort Hotel Card Room Permit Conditions
4-17-7: Resort Hotel Card Room Permit Fees And Deposits
4-17-8: Gross Revenue Permit Fees
4-17-9: Card Room Permit Application
4-17-10: Pointholder And Key Management Employee Permit Application
4-17-11: Card Room Operations Certificate Application
4-17-12: Application Fees
4-17-13: Card Room Permit Fees/Renewal Fees
4-17-14: Card Room Permit, Pointholder Permit And Key Management Employee
Permit Approval Process
4-17-15: Employee Work Permits
4-17-16: Grounds For Denial, Revocation Or Suspension Of Registration
4-17-17: Denial, Suspension And Revocation Of Registration Of Work Permit
4-17-18: Suspension And Revocation Of Permits
4-17-19: Rules And Regulations
4-17-20: Transfer Of Interest Of Pointholder In Card Room; Permission Required
4-17-21: Pointholders; Updating Of Investigations; Divestment
4-17-22: Unlawful Acts
4-17-23: Exclusion Of Person From Card Rooms
4-17-24: Presumptions
4-17-25: Administration Of Chapter By The City Manager
4-17-26: Violations
4-17-27: Severability
4-17-28: Modification Of Application, Permit And Application Fees
4-17-29: Amendments
4-17-30: Permit Modification
4-17-31: Exemptions
4-17-32: Effective Action
4-17-33: Certification And Publication
4-17-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this Chapter, the words and phrases hereinafter set forth
shall have the following meanings ascribed to them unless the context clearly
requires the contrary:
APPLICANT: Every person filing an application with the City seeking a card room
permit or any other permit required under this Chapter.
BENEFICIAL INTEREST: That interest in a card room held by the beneficiaries of
a trust which as part of the corpus thereof, holds a financial interest in such
card room.
CARD ROOM: Any building or structure, or portion thereof, for which a card room
permit is obtained and in which legal gambling or gaming is conducted.
CARD TABLE: Any table or any other surface upon which any game is played.
COMMENCE: Shall mean and include the terms "commence", "transact", "maintain",
"prosecute", "practice", "manage", "operate", "permit", "allow", "suffer", and
"carry on".
CONDUCT: Shall mean and include the terms "conduct", "transact", "maintain",
"prosecute", "practice", "manage", "operate", "permit", "allow", "suffer", and
"carry on".
CONVICTION OR CONVICTED: A plea of guilty, a final verdict of guilty or a
conviction following a plea of nolo contendere.
COUNCIL: The City Council of the City of Taft.
DAY: Shall mean "calendar day" unless otherwise expressly stated.
EMPLOYEE: Every person who acts either as agent or employee of the permittee or
under the direction of the permittee of any card room. A management corporation
is an employee for purposes of this Chapter.
FILING AND PROCESSING FEES: The imposition, pursuant to this Chapter and/or any
resolution of the Council, of fees and/or deposits to be used for the purpose
of reimbursing the City for its costs of administering the provisions of this
Chapter.
FINANCIAL INTEREST: Any direct or indirect financial interest in the
management, operation, ownership, profits or revenue (gross or net) of a card
room. A direct financial interest means a monetary investment in a card room.
An indirect financial interest means owning one percent (1%) or more of any
entity, i.e., any business, corporation, joint venture partnership or trust
that in turn has a direct financial interest in a card room.
GAME: "Legal gambling or gaming" as defined below.
GROSS REVENUE: Shall mean and include seat rental fees, membership fees, table
revenues, rental fees and charges, and any and all other gaming revenues
derived from activities conducted on or within the card room premises.
KEY MANAGEMENT EMPLOYEE: Shall mean: a) any person, whether or not such person
is a named officer director of the permittee, with the power to direct
operations and direct supervisory and several employees of a card room; b) any
person with the actual or apparent authority to direct the counting of revenue
generated by the card room; and c) any person employed or engaged by the
permittee to manage the card room.
LEASE: Any formal or informal written or oral contract or understanding or
arrangement whereby any person operating a card room obtains the use or
possession of any property, real or personal, to be used, occupied, or
possessed in connection with the conduct of games at any card room. The term
"lease" includes, without limitation, payments to an affiliated person under a
real property lease, a personal property lease, an unsecured note, a deed of
trust, a mortgage, or a trust indenture.
LEGAL GAMBLING OR GAMING: Any card game played for currency, check or any other
thing of value which is not prohibited and made unlawful by chapter 9
(commencing with section 319) or chapter 10 (commencing with section 330) of
title 9 of part 1 of the Penal Code or by this Chapter.
LESSOR: Any person who leases any property, real or personal, to a person
operating a card room for use in connection with the conduct of games or
related activities.
MANAGER: Any agent or employee of a permittee whose duties include, but may not
be limited to, the following: the making or changing of policy, hiring or
firing employees, and/or generally exercising independent judgment in the
operation of the card room. A manager need not have a financial interest in the
permittee.
PERMIT: A permit issued pursuant to this Chapter allowing the operation of a
card room.
PERMIT FEES: All fees levied upon each permittee pursuant to this Chapter.
PERMITTEE: The person or entity to whom (which) a permit is issued.
PLAYING CARDS OR CARD GAMES: The participation in legal gambling or gaming at a
card room.
POINTHOLDER: Any person having a financial interest or beneficial interest in
the permittee as well as all stockholders of any entity having a financial
interest or beneficial interest in the permittee.
PREMISES: Land, together with all buildings, improvements, and personal
property located thereon and related to card room use.
SECURITY DEPOSIT: Any security or deposit required by this Chapter to ensure
the prompt and full payment of any permit fees imposed by the City pursuant to
this Chapter.
WORK PERMIT: A permit issued pursuant to this Chapter authorizing a person to
be an employee of a card room. (Ord. 663-99, 2-16-1999)
4-17-2: CONFORMANCE WITH STATE LAW:
   (A)   It is the stated purpose of this Chapter to regulate card rooms in the
City concurrently with the State and to impose local controls and regulations
upon card rooms as permitted in the "Gaming Registration Act" as codified in
division 8, chapter 5 of the California Business and Professions Code
(commencing with section 19800). All such references in this Chapter to the
Gaming Registration Act are to division 8, chapter 5 of the California Business
and Professions Code, as may be amended.
   (B)   In conformance with State law, the playing of percentage games is
impermissible. Any fees paid by patrons of a card room shall not be tied to the
amount of a player's bet, the size of the pot, winnings that may be collected,
or money that changes hands among the players at the table. (Ord. 663-99, 2-16-
1999)
4-17-3: NO VESTED RIGHT:
This Chapter does not create any vested or other property right of any kind in
any permittee, pointholder, key management employee, or other person. The City
reserves the right to, at any time, amend, modify or repeal the provisions of
this Chapter and to otherwise regulate or prohibit any privilege exercised
thereunder. This reservation includes, but is not limited to, the right of City
to amend, from time to time, a permit issued pursuant to the terms of this
Chapter by resolution of the Council. (Ord. 663-99, 2-16-1999)
4-17-4: OTHER PERMITS REQUIRED:
It is the declared policy of the City that pointholders, key management
employees, managers and employees apply for and be issued permits after an
individual personal background investigation, and that the involvement of such
persons be controlled so as to better protect the public health, safety, good
order and public welfare.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person or other entity to commence or
conduct or purport to commence or conduct, within the City any business,
activity, enterprise, undertaking, or place where tables or other items or
units of furniture are used directly or indirectly for playing cards or card
games and for the use of which a fee, commission, or compensation is directly
or indirectly charged, accepted, or received from players or participants in
any such playing of card games until such person shall have first obtained a
card room permit and until such permittee has secured a card room operations
certificate for the operation of such card games at specific premises.
   (B)   An applicant for a card room permit or other permit required under
this Chapter is seeking the granting of privilege. Therefore, the burden of
proving that all qualifications have been met to receive any such permit is at
all times on the applicant. An applicant must accept all risks of adverse
public notice, publicity, embarrassment, criticism, financial loss, or all
other actions and consequences which may result from activities with respect to
reviewing, processing, approving or disapproving any application, and, a waiver
of any claims for damages against the City or its agents resulting therefrom
shall be acknowledged upon the filing of an application.
   (C)   An applicant for a permit pursuant to this Chapter may claim any
privilege afforded by the Constitution of the United States in refusing to
answer questions by the City. However, a claim of privilege with respect to any
testimony, evidence, or requested information pertaining to an application may
constitute sufficient grounds for denial of any such permit. (Ord. 663-99, 2-
16-1999)
4-17-5: CARD ROOM PERMIT CONDITIONS:
   (A)   This Chapter limits the location of permitted card rooms to the C-2,
M-1, and M-2 Zones within the City. The card room shall also be subject to the
requirement that it will not be located within five hundred feet (500') of any
school, church, or residentially zoned parcel.
   (B)   No more than five (5) card tables shall be allowed to operate within
the City limits, unless the card room is developed pursuant to Section
4-17-6 of this Chapter. No more than five (5) card tables shall be allowed to
operate under any single card room permit unless the card room is developed
pursuant to Section
4-17-6 of this Chapter.
Notwithstanding the limitations of this Chapter, in the event a resort hotel is
developed, a card room may be established within a resort hotel. The card room
within the resort hotel shall comply with all requirements of this Chapter as
well as requirements set out in Section
4-17-6 of this Chapter. The intention of the City to allow development of a
resort hotel is to encourage and support tourist-related development and
activity for the benefit of the public including the citizens of the City.
   (C)   A permittee may operate the card room twenty four (24) hours per day.
   (D)   Everything else being equal, employees shall be local residents
whenever possible, if qualified. Local means having a Taft zip code in their
home address. All employees of card rooms shall be fingerprinted and
registered, subject to the conditions in Section
4-17-15 of this Chapter, by the Police Department.
   (E)   The card room permit shall be in effect until such time that it is
revoked, suspended or surrendered.
   (F)   At least one pointholder shall have as his/her legal residence a home,
whose address bears a Taft zip code or is currently the owner and operator of a
licensed business operating from a business address located within the
boundaries of the City. (Ord. 663-99, 2-16-1999)
4-17-6: RESORT HOTEL CARD ROOM PERMIT CONDITIONS:
   (A)   A permittee must provide or have provided to it and its patrons full
restaurant service twenty four (24) hours a day or during the hours that the
card room is operated.
   (B)   Everything else being equal, employees shall be local residents
wherever possible, if qualified. Local means having a Taft zip code in their
home address. All employees of the gaming club shall be fingerprinted and
registered, subject to the conditions in Section
4-17-15 of this Chapter, by the Police Department.
   (C)   Pursuant to this Chapter, a permittee shall not operate a card room
that has less than ten (10) playing tables. Pursuant to this Chapter, no more
than forty (40) playing tables shall be allowed to operate within the City
limits.
   (D)   A card room established pursuant to this Chapter must be located in a
building in which the area devoted to the card room is no less than three
thousand (3,000) square feet. The card room may be located in a portion of the
resort hotel described in subsection (E) of this Section and may consist only
of a card room.
   (E)   It is the intention of the City to award a permit and said permit to
be utilized in the development of a resort hotel for the benefit of the public
including the citizens of the City. The permit shall be utilized in and in
connection with and so as to promote, encourage and support tourist- related
development and activity, utilizing the other assets, facilities and
attractions of the City.
Thus, the permittee shall provide for the establishment either in the building
or on the same property, a resort hotel. The resort hotel shall be completed
and issued a certificate of occupancy within three (3) years of the issuance of
a permit for a resort hotel card room or the resort hotel card room permit will
be suspended until such time as the resort hotel is ready for occupancy. Such
facility must be located in the C-2, M-1, or M-2 Zones within the City, and
then only after approval of a conditional use permit. The resort hotel is
subject to all the other provisions of the Zoning Ordinance. The facility shall
also be subject to the requirement that it will not be located within five
hundred feet (500') of any school, church, or residentially zoned parcel.
In addition a resort hotel is defined as having:
      1.   An indoor or outdoor heated pool. Such outdoor pool shall be heated
so as to provide a water temperature of at least seventy two degrees Fahrenheit
(72°F) at least eight (8) months of the year.
      2.   A minimum of no less than fifty (50) rooms.
      3.   Banquet facilities such as to permit the occupancy of three hundred
(300) diners or more at the same time.
      4.   A minimum lot size of five (5) acres or more.
      5.   A sauna and a hot tub either indoor or out.
      6.   A recreation and exercise room.
      7.   An arcade of video games.
      8.   Conference rooms of a minimum of two thousand (2,000) square feet.
The holder of the resort hotel card room permit may operate the card room in
the area defined in subsection (D) of this Section, by virtue of ownership,
lease or exclusive permit of the area. If the resort hotel required by this
subsection is not owned by the permittee, then the owner of the resort hotel
shall file with the application under oath that its resort hotel may be used to
qualify the permit. Once the permit is granted the resort hotel shall not
qualify any additional permits unless the original permit is revoked or
surrendered.
   (F)   Not withstanding subsection (E) of this Section, the card room must be
under operation within eighteen (18) months of the issuance of the permit or
said permit is revoked.
   (G)   The City shall cooperate and facilitate the development of the resort
hotel card room pursuant to this Chapter under the City's normal procedures and
shall not unreasonably deny approval or create any inordinate delays in the
construction of any part of these facilities. (Ord. 663-99, 2-16-1999)
4-17-7: RESORT HOTEL CARD ROOM PERMIT FEES AND DEPOSITS:
For the purpose of clarification, the permit fees set forth in this Section are
in addition to application fees required in Section
4-17-12 of this Chapter and are for regulation and revenue purposes and are
levied pursuant to the authority of applicable laws.
   (A)   A resort hotel card room deposit fee of ten thousand dollars
($10,000.00), which shall be the property of and retained by the City. In the
event that the permit applied for is issued, the permit fee described herein
shall be applied as a credit for the first installment of the initial resort
hotel card room permit fee described in Section
4-17-8 of this Chapter. In the event that the resort hotel card room permit is
not issued, the permit fee deposit shall be returned to the applicant.
   (B)   Each applicant shall be properly licensed by the Gaming Registration
Division of the California Attorney General's Office. (Ord. 663-99, 2-16-1999)
4-17-8: GROSS REVENUE PERMIT FEES:
   (A)   Resort Hotel Card Room Permit Fee: Each permittee, permitted pursuant
to the provisions of Section
4-17-6 of this Chapter, shall pay a monthly fee based upon the total monthly
gross revenue of the legal gaming business so permitted at a rate of ten
percent (10%) of the monthly gross gaming revenues.
   (B)   Statement Of Revenues: Each permittee, permitted pursuant to the
provisions of Section
4-17-6 of this Chapter shall file with the City's Finance Director before the
fifteenth day of each calendar month, a statement, under oath, showing the true
and correct amount of the gross revenue from the legal gaming business, for the
preceding calendar month.
Such statement shall be accompanied by the payment of the correct amount of the
permit fee due and owing, in accordance with the provision of subsection (A) of
this Section and such sums correctly reflecting the monthly fees payable for
the preceding month shall be accepted by the City, subject, however, to the
right of the City to audit these matters referred to in the statement and to
determine the correctness of the figures set forth in such statement and the
amount payable to the City pursuant to provision of subsection (A) of this
Section.
   (C)   Excess Revenues Collected: The revenues collected under the ordinance
that exceed the cost of administering the ordinance shall be part of the
General Fund. (Ord. 663-99, 2-16-1999)
4-17-9: CARD ROOM PERMIT APPLICATION:
   (A)   Any person desiring or proposing to commence or conduct business,
activity, enterprise or undertaking pertaining to or involving a card room,
shall file an application with the City Manager using such forms as are
provided by the City. Each application shall contain and each applicant shall
execute a statement as follows: "The undersigned applicant(s) declares under
penalty of perjury that the foregoing is true and correct."
   (B)   The card room permit, if granted, will be issued only in the name of
an individual, a sole proprietorship, a partnership, or a corporation (such
entity to be referred to as permit applicant), and, the permit shall require
that, concurrent with the granting of the card room permit, each pointholder
and key management employee of the permit applicant be issued permits allowing
such individuals or entities to be involved in the activities, profits and
direction of the card room operation (such individuals and entities to be
referred to as pointholder permit applicants and key management employee permit
applicants respectively). Pointholder permits shall be issued only in the name
of an individual. City officials, the City Manager, the City Attorney, Council
members, planning commissioners, City employees, and relatives of the City
Manager, the City Attorney, Council members, planning commissioners, and
department heads shall not be eligible to apply for card room permits,
pointholder permits or any form of employee permit or registration card. For
purposes of this Chapter "relatives" means any person who is related in the
first degree of consanguinity by blood or marriage to the City Manager, the
City Attorney, Council members, planning commissioners, or department heads.
   (C)   In addition to other information as may be required by said
application forms for a card room permit, the applicant shall complete and
provide the following information in as great detail as is available or as the
City Manager or his/her designee may require:
      1.   The date of the application;
      2.   The true name of the applicant;
      3.   The status of the applicant as being an individual, a sole
proprietorship, a partnership or a corporation;
      4.   If the applicant is an individual, the residence and business
address and personal history record of such applicant;
      5.   If the applicant is other than an individual, the name, residence,
and business address of each of the partners or stockholders who qualify as
pointholders and the name, residence, and business address of each of the
officers and directors of the entity. For purposes of this Chapter such
officers and directors shall be deemed "managers" as defined in this Chapter
and shall be subject to all terms and conditions that managers are subject to;
      6.   An application for a pointholder's permit, including a personal
history record, for every pointholder who has, or is proposed to have, a
financial interest, direct or remote, in the proposed card room operation;
      7.   An application for a key management employee's permit, including a
personal history record, for each individual who is or is proposed to be a key
management employee of the proposed card room;
      8.   An application for a manager's permit, including a personal history
record, for each individual who is or is proposed to be a manager of the
proposed card room;
      9.   A description of the premises to be used in relation to card room
activity including, but not limited to, card playing area, restaurant(s) and
parking;
      10.   A statement of the games proposed to be played including any
specific rules thereto;
      11.   The number of card tables to be placed, employed, or used;
      12.   A description of any other business conducted or proposed to be
conducted on the premises;
      13.   A statement of the applicant's experience in the operation and
management of card rooms and/or other lawful gambling and/or other related
activities;
      14.   A statement that such premises will conform to all the laws of the
State and the City for occupancies of the nature proposed;
      15.   A complete description and layout of all security measures proposed
in as great a detail as available, which shall be a confidential document and
not open to public inspection or disclosure;
      16.   Each application for a card room permit, a pointholder's permit, a
manager's permit, or a key management employee's permit shall include the
following:
         (a)   A statement that the applicant understands that the application
shall be considered only after a full background investigation and report has
been made by such members of City staff as are designated by the City Manager.
         (b)   A statement that the applicant understands and agrees that any
business or activity conducted or operated under any permit or permit issued
under such application shall be operated in full conformity with all the laws
of the State and the laws and regulations of the City applicable thereto, and
that any violation of any such laws or regulations in such place of business,
or in connection therewith, may render any permit or permit therefor subject to
immediate suspension or revocation.
         (c)   A statement that the applicant has read the provisions of this
Chapter and particularly the provisions of this Chapter and understands the
same and agrees to abide by all rules and regulations contained in this
Chapter.
         (d)   A complete statement of financial position for each applicant.
The financial statements required by this subsection shall be confidential
documents and shall not be open to public inspection. Documents shall be
available only to those officers and employees having direct jurisdiction
involving the provisions of this Chapter and to any court of competent
jurisdiction where any matter relating thereto may be actually pending;
      17.   Concurrently with the filing of their applications, the card room
permit applicant and the pointholder and key management employee permit
applicants shall be fingerprinted and photographed by the Police Department.
Applicants shall authorize the City to obtain any available criminal offender
record information relating to applicant and shall further authorize the
updating of that information on an annual basis if a permit is granted;
      18.   If an applicant for a card room permit is a publicly traded
corporation, each person having a beneficial interest of at least five percent
(5%) in the applicant corporation shall be identified and may be required to
meet all the requirements for applicants and permittees. (Ord. 663-99, 2-16-
1999)
4-17-10: POINTHOLDER AND KEY MANAGEMENT EMPLOYEE PERMIT APPLICATION:
As set forth in Section
4-17-9 of this Chapter, the applications for all pointholder and key management
employees shall be submitted as part of the application for a card room permit.
Each permit applicant shall be responsible for providing complete and accurate
information and for signing the permit application. However, it shall be the
responsibility of the card room permit applicant (or permittee for subsequent
applications) to submit the completed applications and pay any application
fees.
Failure to submit complete applications for each proposed pointholder and key
management employee may be grounds for denial or revocation of a card room
permit. (Ord. 663-99, 2-16-1999)
4-17-11: CARD ROOM OPERATIONS CERTIFICATE APPLICATION:
A card room operations certificate shall be issued only to a card room
permittee. This certificate must be applied for concurrently with the card room
permit.
The card room operations certificate application shall be filed with the City
Manager. The application shall include, but is not limited to, the following:
   (A)   Detailed floor plan of the interior of the proposed card room facility
specifying at a minimum:
      1.   The location of all cardplaying areas;
      2.   The manner in which the cardplaying areas shall be separated from
other areas;
      3.   The location of any and all other proposed facilities within the
card room premises.
   (B)   Detailed plans of the parking facilities including a lighting and
security plan.
   (C)   A detailed statement of all proposed security measures, both physical
and operational, including an acknowledgment by the permittee of liability for
the security and safety of patrons, or a statement acknowledging limitations on
the liability of the permittee for the security and safety of the patrons and
that the card room has been posted to provide adequate notice to the patrons of
said limitations.
   (D)   A detailed statement and description of all plans, both physical and
operational, for the handling of money, including, but not limited to,
provisions, if applicable, for the following:
      1.   Purchase of chips and protection against counterfeit chips;
      2.   Check cashing or ATM card cashing procedure;
      3.   Procedures for bringing money to or removing money from the
premises;
      4.   Procedure for determining and depositing daily gross receipts.
   (E)   A statement of the internal accounting and administrative control
system proposed to be used by applicant. The City may require that an
evaluation be performed by a certified public accountant at applicant's
expense.
   (F)   Evidence of compliance with any prerequisites for compliance with the
State Gaming Registration Act including, but not limited to, valid registration
from the Attorney General of the State.
All information provided regarding security measures, internal controls, or
provisions relating to the handling of cash, chips, and cards shall be deemed
confidential and shall not be available for public inspection unless required
by law. (Ord. 663-99, 2-16-1999)
4-17-12: APPLICATION FEES:
For purposes of clarification, the fees set forth in this Chapter are for both
regulation and revenue purposes and are levied pursuant to the authority of
article XI, section 5 of the constitution of the State of California. Each
application for any permit shall be subject to fees and deposits, payable to
the City as follows:
   (A)   A card room permit application fee in the amount of two hundred fifty
dollars ($250.00) shall be retained by the City for the payment of the costs of
investigation.
   (B)   A pointholder and key management employees permit application fee in
the amount of two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) per applicant shall be
retained by the City for the payment of the costs of investigation.
   (C)   An employee work permit application fee in the amount of two hundred
fifty dollars ($250.00) per applicant shall be retained by the City for the
payment of the costs of investigation.
   (D)   A card room operations certificate application fee in the amount of
two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) shall be retained by the City for the
payment of the costs of investigation which shall be paid to the City prior to
the issuance of the card room permit. (Ord. 663-99, 2-16-1999)
4-17-13: CARD ROOM PERMIT FEES/RENEWAL FEES:
   (A)   The card room permit fee required for carrying on or conducting the
business heretofore described shall be one thousand five hundred dollars
($1,500.00) per annum, payable quarterly in advance, for any number of tables
up to five (5).
Notwithstanding the above, resort hotel card rooms shall pay the permit fees
and deposits and the gross revenue permit fee established by Sections
4-17-7 and
4-17-8 of this Chapter. (Ord. 663-99, 2-16-1999)
4-17-14: CARD ROOM PERMIT, POINTHOLDER PERMIT AND KEY MANAGEMENT EMPLOYEE
PERMIT APPROVAL PROCESS:
   (A)   Investigation And Report: Upon receipt of a card room permit
application and all relevant application and permit fees, the City Manager or
his/her designee shall cause an investigation to be made covering all matters
relevant to the proposed activity of the applicant, individual pointholders,
and key management employees and managers. Such matters may include, but are
not limited to, the following:
      1.   Identity, character and background of the permit applicant, all
individual pointholders, and all key management employees and managers;
      2.   A full and complete investigation of the building or proposed
building and location where the applicant proposes to conduct such business and
activity including parking, traffic movement and aesthetics;
      3.   Compliance with City's General Plan, zoning, environmental
requirements, ordinances and other laws;
      4.   Type of tables to be used and their proposed locations and the rules
for and types of games proposed to be played, area where food and beverages are
proposed to be served, and means for excluding persons under twenty one (21)
years of age from cardplaying areas;
      5.   Type and degree of security personnel and facilities to be provided;
      6.   The financial stability of the pointholders involved in the
application and the financial ability of the applicant to comply with the
conditions and requirements of the City and other governmental and legal
requirements and conditions in the event the application is approved.
The City Manager shall make such investigation as to all matters within his
jurisdiction with reasonable promptness and shall report to the City Council
with reference thereto in due course.
   (B)   Notice: Prior to consideration by the Council, the City Clerk shall
give written notice of a public hearing by one publication in a newspaper of
general circulation within the City not less than ten (10) days prior to the
date of the public hearing. Such notice shall state the nature of the request,
the location of the property, and the time and place of the hearing.
   (C)   Council Hearing And Determination: In the event a full and complete
application for a card room permit is presented to the Council, and the
payments required by this Chapter in connection therewith have been duly made
to the City, and the investigations and reports required under the provisions
of this Chapter have been duly completed, the Council shall have jurisdiction
to consider such application.
At the time and place set for hearing of an application for a card room permit,
the Council shall consider the application, the City Manager's findings and
recommendations, including the report of the investigation, written testimony
and public testimony. Within a reasonable time after the close of the hearing,
the Council shall make a determination on the application.
The Council by resolution shall either grant, conditionally grant, or deny the
card room permit application. This Chapter limits the location of permitted
card rooms to the C-2, M-1, and M-2 Zones within the City. The card room shall
also be subject to the requirement that it will not be located within five
hundred feet (500') of any school, church, or residentially zoned parcel.
   (D)   Requirements For Issuance: The Council may grant a card room permit
only if it determines that:
      1.   The proposed card room use will not result in the substantial
aggravation of crime problems or make law enforcement unduly difficult;
      2.   The proposed card room is not detrimental to the public peace,
health, safety and welfare;
      3.   The proposed card room use is in compliance with all laws,
including, but not limited to, the City's zoning, fire, building or other
ordinance; and
      4.   The proposed card room use would be consistent with the purposes and
provisions of this Chapter and is not contrary to public interest.
   (E)   Grounds For Denial: The Council shall deny issuance of any permit
under the provisions of this Chapter in any of the following cases:
      1.   The proposed business or activity to be operated is in violation of
any Federal, State or City laws or regulations;
      2.   The game or games for which a permit is applied is/are unlawful;
      3.   The applicant, and each pointholder thereof, has not first obtained
a valid registration from the Attorney General of the State issued pursuant to
the Gaming Registration Act;
      4.   The applicant is identified by any law enforcement agency,
legislative body or crime commission as a member of, or an associate of,
organized criminal elements;
      5.   The applicant knowingly making any false statement in the
application or as to any other information presented as part of the application
process;
      6.   Prior unsuitable operation as a card or gaming permittee in another
jurisdiction;
      7.   Inadequate security;
      8.   If none of the pointholders meet the qualifications set forth in
subsection
4-17-5(F) of this Chapter. (Ord. 663-99, 2-16-1999)
4-17-15: EMPLOYEE WORK PERMITS:
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any permittee to employ any person to work in
a card room without such person having been first registered with the Police
Chief.
   (B)   Each card room employee shall present himself or herself at the Police
Department during normal business hours, prior to commencement of any such
employment, and be registered.
   (C)   Each employee shall:
      1.   Complete an application;
      2.   Be fingerprinted;
      3.   Be photographed;
      4.   Provide any other information that the Police Chief or his or her
designee may require; and
      5.   Certify the contents of the application under penalty of perjury.
   (D)   The Police Chief is hereby authorized to obtain criminal history
information for each employee seeking registration.
   (E)   A fee of two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) per applicant as set
forth in Section
4-17-12 of this Chapter shall be paid together with the registration or renewal
application.
   (F)   Within thirty (30) days after completion of the background
investigation, the Police Chief or his/her designee shall mail a written
decision to the applicant either granting or denying registration and
explaining the reasons for denial.
   (G)   The Police Chief or his/her designee shall provide each registered
employee with a permanent identification card to be known as a "work permit"
which shall be displayed in accordance with the requirements of this Chapter.
   (H)   Each registered employee shall renew his/her registration with the
Police Chief at least thirty (30) days prior to the anniversary of the date of
his or her initial registration and every anniversary thereafter. New cards
will be issued as the City deems appropriate.
   (I)   The card room permittee shall inform the Police Chief of any change in
employment status of a registered employee within twenty four (24) hours of the
effective date of the change in employment. A change in employment status shall
include termination of employment, leave of absence in excess of sixty (60)
days, or any promotion or other change in position, job title, or duties.
   (J)   The California Department of Justice, Division of Gambling Control is
hereby authorized to review all employee work permit applications and submit
objections to the Police Chief to the issuance of a work permit to that
employee. (Ord. 663-99, 2-16-1999)
4-17-16: GROUNDS FOR DENIAL, REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION OF REGISTRATION:
The Police Chief shall revoke or suspend the registration of or deny
registration to a card room employee or potential employee on any of the
following grounds:
   (A)   The employee has been convicted of a crime involving lotteries,
gambling, bookmaking, larceny, perjury, bribery, extortion, fraud, theft, or
embezzlement, or a crime involving moral turpitude, or has been convicted of
being under the influence of, possession of, the sale or possession for sale of
a controlled substance, prostitution, pimping, or pandering, or has been
convicted of any crime substantially related to service or entertainment
business;
   (B)   The employee has committed any act involving dishonesty, fraud or
deceit with the intent to substantially benefit the employee or benefit
another, or substantially injure another;
   (C)   The employee has violated any provisions of this Chapter;
   (D)   The employee knowingly made a false statement in his or her
application or to any City officer, employee, or agent;
   (E)   The employee has violated any law or ordinance relating to the
operation of a card room;
   (F)   Objection by the California Department of Justice, Division of
Gambling Control to the issuance of the work permit. (Ord. 663-99, 2-16-1999)
4-17-17: DENIAL, SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION OF REGISTRATION OF WORK PERMIT:
   (A)   If it appears at any time that good cause may exist for the Police
Chief to deny registration of an employee, or to suspend or revoke an existing
registration, the Police Chief shall provide the employee and permittee with
the opportunity for a hearing before the Police Chief to show cause why
registration should not be denied, suspended or revoked.
   (B)   In the case of denial, suspension or revocation, the employee shall be
given ten (10) days from the date of mailing of the notice of denial,
suspension or revocation to request a show cause hearing before the Police
Chief. The employee shall be deemed to have waived the right to show cause
hearing if the Police Chief does not receive the employee's request for a
hearing within ten (10) days of the date of mailing of the notice.
   (C)   The Police Chief shall schedule the hearing within fifteen (15) days
after receipt of the request for a show cause hearing. The Police Chief shall
mail notice of the time, place and date of the hearing to the applicant or
employee and the employer within five (5) days after receipt of the request for
hearing.
   (D)   The technical rules of evidence shall not apply to the show cause
hearing.
   (E)   If the Police Chief, on the basis of substantial evidence presented at
the show cause hearing, finds good cause therefor, the Police Chief may deny
registration to the employee, or suspend or revoke the registration.
   (F)   In those extraordinary circumstances, wherein the Police Chief
determines immediate suspension or revocation necessary as a result of
accusations involving conduct resulting in great or irreparable harm or injury
to the City or accusations involving conduct in need of immediate restraint to
prevent great or irreparable harm or injury to the City, the Police Chief may
issue a notice of revocation or a notice of suspension which shall be deemed
effective immediately upon issuance.
The employee shall have ten (10) days from the date of such issuance of notice
of revocation or notice of suspension to request a hearing. The Police Chief
shall schedule a hearing within five (5) days after receipt of the request for
hearing under this subsection. Technical rules of evidence shall not apply for
such hearing. If the Police Chief, on the basis of substantial evidence
presented at such hearing, finds good cause therefor, the Police Chief may
uphold the order of suspension or the order of termination. (Ord. 663-99, 2-16-
1999)
4-17-18: SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION OF PERMITS:
   (A)   General: All permits issued pursuant to the provisions of this Chapter
may be revoked in the time and manner set forth in this Section.
   (B)   Grounds: Any permit issued pursuant to the provisions of this Chapter
shall be suspended as hereinafter set forth.
      1.   The Attorney General of the State has suspended or revoked a
permittee's registration under the Gaming Registration Act of the State;
      2.   The permittee has failed to pay, when due and payable, any of the
permit fees or other fees provided for in this Chapter;
      3.   The permittee has made any fraudulent statement as to a material
fact on an application form, or as to any other information presented as part
of the application process; or
      4.   The permittee has wilfully violated any provisions of Sections
4-17-19 and
4-17-22 of this Chapter.
   (C)   Action Of The City Manager: Whenever the City Manager has information
that a violation constituting a ground for the suspension or revocation has
occurred, he/she shall forthwith investigate the same. If he/she determines
that such a violation has occurred, he/she shall forthwith set the matter
before the City Council at the next regular meeting.
He/she shall give notice of the time and the place of such hearing before the
City Council to the permittee not less than one week in advance of the date of
the hearing.
   (D)   Hearing: At the time set for such hearing, the City Council shall hear
the evidence presented by the City Manager, purporting to show that grounds
exist for the suspension or revocation; thereafter, the City Council shall
allow the permittee, and any other interested person, to present such evidence
as may be relevant to dispute the existence of such facts.
The City Council may continue the hearing from time to time.
If the City Council is satisfied that probable cause for suspension or
revocation exists and that the continued operation of the card room
jeopardizes, or threatens to jeopardize, the public welfare; it may suspend the
permit pending the conclusion of the hearing.
   (E)   Decision Of The City Council: If, based upon the evidence presented,
the City Council finds that the facts are presented which constitute grounds
for the suspension, it shall be suspended, or if grounds exist for revocation,
it shall revoke the permit. If it finds that the facts are not present, it
shall dismiss the proceedings. (Ord. 663-99, 2-16-1999)
4-17-19: RULES AND REGULATIONS:
The following rules and regulations are hereby established and promulgated with
reference to games for which permits are issued under the provisions of this
Chapter. Permittees holding or obtaining permits under the provisions of this
Chapter shall, in writing, agree to be bound by and observe each and all of the
provisions of this Chapter relating to such permits.
   (A)   No permittee shall use, operate or allow the use or operation of more
tables or units than those for which such permittee holds a then current and
valid permit to operate or use in the City.
   (B)   No permittee shall allow any person to play in any game permitted by
the provisions of this Chapter at any time while such person appears to be, or,
in the opinion of the permittee or his authorized agents or employees, is under
the influence of intoxicating liquor or drugs and no person under, or who
appears to be under, the influence of intoxicating liquor or drugs shall play
in any such game.
   (C)   No permittee shall allow any person to enter the premises while such
person appears to be, or in the opinion of the permittee or its duly authorized
employees or agents, is under the influence of intoxicating liquor or drugs.
   (D)   Each permittee shall make available to any patron or potential patron
of the card room written players' house rules in booklet form that have been
filed and approved by the City Manager.
   (E)   No permittee shall use or operate any table or unit, or manage, or
conduct or carry on any business or activity permitted by this Chapter after
the time that such permit issued by the City has been or is expired, suspended
or revoked pursuant to this Chapter.
   (F)   Each and all of the games conducted and operated in the City pursuant
to the provisions of this Chapter shall be conducted in full compliance with
and subject to, all the provisions of the applicable laws.
   (G)   No permittee shall permit or allow any person under the age of twenty
one (21) to play in any game permitted hereunder.
   (H)   The playing of all games provided for in this Chapter shall be
confined to the areas designated as "game room(s)" and no playing of any game
provided for or permitted by this Chapter shall be permitted at any other
location on such premises.
   (I)   No permittee, operator, agent, and/or employee of any duly permitted
card room shall assign, arrange for, or in any other manner sublet the
conducting of games, indirectly or directly, with or without consideration, to
any person not having a valid permit to conduct such game.
Nor shall any person conduct games as provided pursuant to the provisions of
this Chapter in a duly permitted card room not having a valid unrevoked permit
to conduct such games or game.
   (J)   A card room shall be open for inspection during all hours to the City
Manager, or his/her duly authorized representative without a search warrant.
   (K)   Gaming tournaments shall be prohibited unless the permittee files with
the City Manager, at least five (5) days prior to the commencement of the
tournament, a full set of rules, regulations, terms and conditions to be used
in regulating or otherwise governing the operations and activities of any such
tournament, including maximum and minimum bets for such tournament play, and
identifying the time and place of such tournament.
   (L)   If the permittee employs convenience dealers for the convenience of
the players so that no player deals, while so dealing, the convenience dealer:
      1.   Other than dealing the cards and making collection as set forth in
this Section, shall not participate in any way in the game and shall not bet;
      2.   Shall collect the posted seat rental fees and segregate and secure
said amounts for collection purposes;
      3.   Shall collect jackpot drops as posted; and
      4.   Shall comply with the regulations promulgated by the City Manager
concerning identification standards.
   (M)   The only games allowed to be played in a permitted card room shall be
those games which are legal in the State.
   (N)   No card room permittee, owner or employee shall allow any persons
playing in any games to make any single bet or wager in excess of two hundred
dollars ($200.00) or at any time during any game to permit an ante in excess of
two hundred dollars ($200.00) total sum anted by players participating in the
game.
Municipal, house or table betting limits shall be clearly posted on the
premises to provide patrons with adequate notice of the rules related to
wagering.
   (O)   No card room owner or employee shall be physically present in the card
room without having prominently displayed his/her own personal identification
card issued by the Police Chief pursuant to this Chapter identifying such
person with the card room.
The identification card shall be prominently displayed on the outermost garment
at approximately chest height. Such identification card shall at all times be
in good and readable condition.
   (P)   The playing of games as provided for by this Chapter shall be
conducted in an area open to the public at all times and the games shall be
played at tables in full view, and no doors, screens or other obstacles, shall
be installed or maintained so as to conceal the players at any table.
   (Q)   The City Manager shall receive a copy of the seat rental rates charged
by the permittee, and shall be apprised at least ten (10) days in advance of
any proposed changes.
   (R)   The permittee shall:
      1.   Collect the established seat rental fee and segregate and secure
said amounts for collection purposes; and
      2.   Comply with regulations promulgated by the City Manager concerning
the tabulation of gross revenue fees and such reasonable auditing procedures as
deemed appropriate.
   (S)   The giving of credit or lending of anything of value to a patron and
the cashing of checks of patrons shall be permitted only if the permittee's
written check cashing and credit policies are submitted and approved by the
City Manager. No credit shall be extended to City employees and officers.
   (T)   Permittee holding valuables for safekeeping, may do so only under the
following conditions:
      1.   Only cash may be held; no other valuable, including coins or paper
money for more than face value, may be held.
      2.   Money deposited shall be secured by cash or other liquid assets or a
security bond. Such security shall be sufficient to cover all money deposited.
      3.   The actual deposits held and the records of the transactions shall
be available for inspection by the City Manager or law enforcement officials
upon demand.
      4.   Permittee may operate a coatroom for the temporary storage of coats,
or other articles of clothing.
   (U)   Pointholders, managers and employees may play in games. (Ord. 663-99,
2-16-1999)
4-17-20: TRANSFER OF INTEREST OF POINTHOLDER IN CARD ROOM; PERMISSION REQUIRED:
   (A)   Sale Or Transfer Of Points: It shall be unlawful for any permittee or
any person having any interest whatsoever or at all in the ownership of a
gaming club, whether legal or equitable, or as trustor or trustee, or
whatsoever kind or character, to sell or transfer such points and/or interest
without first having obtained the consent and permission of the City Council.
   (B)   Application For Point Transfer: Any person desiring to sell, transfer,
assign or otherwise pledge any point or interest in a card room duly permitted
pursuant to the provisions of this Chapter, shall file with the City Manager a
written application for permission to transfer such interest as is hereinafter
described. Each such application shall contain and clearly and truthfully set
forth, under oath, and/or affirmation, and show, in addition to such
information as the City Manager and/or the City Council may require, the
following information:
      1.   The date of the application;
      2.   The true name of the applicant and proposed purchaser or transferee
and any other name by which the proposed purchaser or transferee has been
known;
      3.   The status of the proposed purchaser or transferee, as being an
individual, a sole proprietorship, a partnership, or a corporation;
      4.   The residence or business address of the proposed purchaser or
trustee, if an individual;
      5.   If the trustee is other than an individual, the true name, residence
and business address of each of the proposed purchaser or transferee
pointholders, partners and officers;
      6.   A full and complete financial statement of the proposed purchaser or
trustee, whether it is an individual, a sole proprietorship, a partnership, or
a corporation and a full and complete financial statement of each proposed
purchaser or transferee pointholder, partner or officer; provided, the
financial statements required by this subsection shall be deemed confidential
in character and shall not be open to public inspection, but shall be available
to those City officials having jurisdiction over the provisions of this Chapter
and to any court of competent jurisdiction where any matter relating thereto
may be actively pending;
      7.   The name of the permitted card room for which a transfer of interest
or points is sought;
      8.   The number of points and/or the nature of the interest being sought
to be sold, transferred, assigned or otherwise pledged; and
      9.   A statement that the application will be considered by the City
Council only after a full investigation and report has been made by the City
Manager and the report and investigation has been made to the City Council.
   (C)   Investigation Required: Whenever an application pursuant to the
provisions of this Section has been filed with the City for the sale or
transfer pursuant to the provisions of this Section, the City Manager shall
promptly and diligently make an investigation and shall report to the City
Council with reference thereto within sixty (60) days from the filing of the
application as follows:
      1.   A full and complete investigation of the proposed transferee or
purchaser (including the proposed pointholders, partners or officers),
including a determination that the proposed purchaser has obtained or will have
obtained from the California State Attorney General, a valid registration to
the Gaming Registration Act of the State.
      2.   Concurrently with the filing of the application, each person named
in the application as a proposed purchaser or transferee, or pointholder, shall
be fingerprinted by the Police Chief or his designee, and no application shall
be deemed filed until the fingerprinting has been completed.
   (D)   Permit Fees: Each such sale or transfer application shall be
accompanied by a processing fee in the amount of two hundred fifty dollars
($250.00) per person named in the application as a proposed purchaser or
transferee, or pointholder, partner or officer thereof, to cover the cost of
the investigation.
The fee set forth in this subsection shall be the property of and be retained
by the City whether the sale or transfer is granted or denied.
   (E)   Granting Or Denial Of Application:
      1.   Consideration By City Council: Whenever an application for such a
sale or transfer is presented to the City Council, they shall consider such
application on the same basis as is applicable to the new permit application.
      2.   Decision Of The City Council: The City Council shall not approve an
application if the proposed purchaser has not first obtained a valid
registration from the California State Attorney General pursuant to the State
Gaming Registration Act. Otherwise, the City may, in its sole discretion,
either approve, conditionally approve or deny the application with the
specification of grounds.
      3.   Application Denial: An application may be denied if such transfer is
from a "pointholder" defined under subsection
4-17-5(F) of this Chapter and the transfer occurs to someone who does not meet
the qualifications under that subsection. (Ord. 663-99, 2-16-1999)
4-17-21: POINTHOLDERS; UPDATING OF INVESTIGATIONS; DIVESTMENT:
   (A)   All pointholders in any card room, as well as the partner or officers
of such card rooms, whether or not they hold any point in such clubs, shall
have their background investigation updated yearly and regularly thereafter
pursuant to a schedule established by the City Manager. Such updating shall
consist of a check by telephone to the Criminal Investigation and
Identification Department in Sacramento, California, and the filing by each
permittee, pointholder, partner or officer thereof, of an updated financial
statement. A fee in the amount of ten dollars ($10.00) for each pointholder so
investigated shall be paid to the City by the respective card room or permittee
on a semiannual basis to cover the cost of such investigations.
   (B)   Any person having any interest whatsoever or at all in the ownership
of a card room, whether legal or equitable, or a trustee or trustor, or
whatever kind or character, who has not previously submitted to the procedure
required under subsections
4-17-20(B) through (E) of this Chapter shall file, as a prerequisite to the
continued holding of an ownership interest, the application to be investigated,
pay the fee, to be reviewed by the City Manager and City Council as provided in
that Section for persons applying for new ownership interest.
If the City Council denies any application, within one hundred twenty (120)
days after the receipt of such denial, said person shall divest himself of such
ownership interest.
   (C)   The approval of a pointholder may be revoked or suspended by the City
Council after a hearing held not less than thirty (30) days after such notice
has been given to the pointholder, if the City Council finds that:
      1.   The Attorney General of the State has suspended or revoked the
pointholder's registration under the Gaming Registration Act of the State; or
      2.   A pointholder has violated, or permitted, allowed, or caused the
violation of any provision of this Chapter, any regulation issued pursuant to
this Chapter, any condition of approval imposed upon the issuance of the card
room permit, or any State law or regulation relating to the operation of a card
club; or
      3.   A pointholder has made a fraudulent statement as to a material fact
on an application form or as to any other information presented as part of the
application process. The City Council, in making its decision, shall consider
any mitigating factor presented by the pointholder.
The ownership interest shall be divested within one hundred twenty (120) days
after the notice of revocation. Failure to do so shall constitute a
misdemeanor, and each and every day of noncompliance shall constitute a
separate and complete offense. In addition, the City Attorney may invoke any
civil remedies to enforce compliance.
No person required to divest an ownership interest in a card room following a
revocation of approval shall transfer such ownership interest to his or her
spouse, child, sibling, or parent or to his or her spouse's child, sibling, or
parent without the approval of the City Council.
      4.   If the City finds that the condition set forth in subsection
4-17-5(F) of this Chapter is no longer met, because the pointholder has moved
from his residence or has moved or ceased to operate his business, the
permittee shall receive a notice that they have one hundred twenty (120) days
to sell that pointholder's share to someone who meets the conditions of
subsection
4-17-5(F) of this Chapter or the permit will be suspended until such sale takes
place. (Ord. 663-99, 2-16-1999)
4-17-22: UNLAWFUL ACTS:
   (A)   Unlawful Locations: It shall be unlawful for any person to play, or
permit the playing of, any game at any place permitted pursuant to the
provisions of this Chapter at any place within the City, except such place
operated under a permit and permitted under permits held or issued pursuant to
the provisions of this Chapter.
   (B)   Unlawful Games: It shall be unlawful for any person to play in, or
permit the playing of any game at any place permitted pursuant to this Chapter
which game is not permitted by the provisions of this Chapter, or any game
played in violation of this Chapter.
   (C)   Unlawful Attractions: A permittee shall have the right to advertise in
the newspaper, over the radio station and television, and in any other legal
way the permittee sees fit. No permittee shall engage in false or misleading
advertising in connection with gambling.
   (D)   Operation Of Game Rooms: It shall be unlawful for any operator of a
game room permitted under this Chapter or any owner, principal employee or
agent of a game room permitted under this Chapter:
      1.   To allow to be wagered by any player any amount in excess of the
posted wagering limit for the table at which the player is playing, except as
is specified in the players' house rules.
      2.   To knowingly permit any unlawful activity to take place upon the
premises of the card room or to fail to take reasonable steps to prevent such
activities from taking place, including, but not limited to, illegal gambling
activities, prostitution, and cheating. The permittee shall have the power to
formulate reasonable policies and procedures to control such activities, and
these policies and procedures may be published in the players' house rules.
   (E)   Cheating: It shall be unlawful for any person to attempt to gain any
unfair advantage for any player in a permitted card room through a fraudulent
technique or mechanical or electrical device. Prohibited cheating techniques
include, but are not limited to, the following examples:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any person as a player or dealer to attempt
to prearrange or to shuffle any playing cards except in a random manner.
      2.   It shall be unlawful for any person to deal, draw, distribute or
burn any playing cards other than the top card of a deck.
      3.   It shall be unlawful for any person to attempt to alter in any way
the shape, appearance, texture or number of cards in play, or to switch any
card.
      4.   It shall be unlawful for any person to use any apparatus to gain
information not available to the other players. (Ord. 663-99, 2-16-1999)
4-17-23: EXCLUSION OF PERSON FROM CARD ROOMS:
   (A)   A permittee may exclude or eject from the premises any person who has
engaged in or been convicted of bookmaking, loan sharking, the sale of
controlled substances, illegal gambling activities, cheating, prostitution, or
whose presence in or about such card room would be inimical to the interest of
legal gaming. No person shall be excluded or ejected on the grounds of race,
color, creed, or gender.
   (B)   Any person excluded or ejected by the permittee may appeal to the City
Manager as to whether the conditions for the exclusion or ejections set forth
in subsection (A) of this Section are applicable.
The City Manager shall appoint a hearing officer who shall conduct a hearing to
which both the person who has been excluded and the permittee may present
evidence. The decision of the hearing officer shall be final. The permittee and
appellant shall reimburse the City for the cost of holding the hearing in
amounts determined by the hearing officer. (Ord. 663-99, 2-16-1999)
4-17-24: PRESUMPTIONS:
The City in adopting the provisions of this Chapter and establishing the
regulation of the business operated or to be operated by the permittee who
permits the playing of games authorized by this Chapter, declares that the
playing of games not prohibited by statute is conducive to public morals when
the same are played and conducted according to the laws, regulations, and
provisions as set forth in this Chapter, or that in any proceeding to annul a
permit issued pursuant to the provisions of this Chapter, or to abate the
business conducted hereunder, or to prosecute the permittee or his employees
for any acts authorized thereby, it shall be presumed that such acts are not
lawful and that such business is not a public or private nuisance.
The City finds that the issuance of written checks by players to card rooms and
the granting of credit to players by card rooms to facilitate the playing of
legal games is not contrary to an express provision of law, not to the policy
of express law, and is not otherwise contrary to good morals. It is the intent
of the City Council that Civil Code chapter 1667 not apply, and that both
players and card rooms are entitled to take their contractual disputes to
court. (Ord. 663-99, 2-16-1999)
4-17-25: ADMINISTRATION OF CHAPTER BY THE CITY MANAGER:
The City Manager at the direction of the City Council shall formulate in
writing all necessary rules and regulations to implement and administer the
provisions of this Chapter, and shall do all things necessary and proper to
carry out the spirit and intent of this Chapter, including, but not limited to:
   (A)   Preserving and keeping all documents identified in this Chapter as
confidential documents so that the contents thereof shall not become known
except to those persons required by law to effect the administration or
enforcement of this Chapter;
   (B)   Promulgating and/or requiring prior approval of the accounting
procedures to be utilized by permittees to ensure legal reporting of card room
revenues; and
   (C)   Delegating the duties and powers vested in the City Manager to
appropriate City employers or officers. (Ord. 663-99, 2-16-1999)
4-17-26: VIOLATIONS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to violate any of the provisions of this
Chapter.
In addition to all the other remedies available under applicable laws, the City
Council shall retain the right to establish reasonable fines for knowing
violations of this Chapter. (Ord. 663-99, 2-16-1999)
4-17-27: SEVERABILITY:
If any section, subsection, sentence, clause, phrase, part or portion of this
Chapter is for any reason held to be unenforceable, invalid or unconstitutional
by final judgment of any court of competent jurisdiction, such decision shall
not affect the enforcement or validity of the remaining portion of the Chapter.
It is hereby declared that this Chapter and each section, subsection, sentence,
clause, phrase, part or portion hereof would have been adopted or passed
irrespective of the fact that any one or more sections, subsections, sentences,
clauses, phrases, parts and portions be declared unenforceable, invalid or
unconstitutional. (Ord. 663-99, 2-16-1999)
4-17-28: MODIFICATION OF APPLICATION, PERMIT AND APPLICATION FEES:
The deposit and fees provided for in Sections
4-17-7,
4-17-8,
4-17-12,
4-17-13 and
4-17-30 of this Chapter may be modified by a duly adopted ordinance of the City
Council so as to defray the actual cost associated with the City's activity
covered by those Sections. (Ord. 663-99, 2-16-1999)
4-17-29: AMENDMENTS:
The City Council shall have the power to amend provisions of this Chapter,
providing that any such amendment shall not be inconsistent or in conflict with
the purpose of this Chapter of permitting the operation of gaming clubs. Except
as otherwise required by statute or by the constitution of the State of
California or by applicable decisional law, any amendment shall require a
notified public hearing and adoption by a majority affirmative vote of the
total number of seats on the City Council. (Ord. 663-99, 2-16-1999)
4-17-30: PERMIT MODIFICATION:
Upon application by the permittee, the City Council may modify any permit by a
majority vote. An application for a modification shall be accompanied by an
application fee of two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00). (Ord. 663-99, 2-16-
1999)
4-17-31: EXEMPTIONS:
   (A)   Exempt Organizations: The City Council in its sole discretion may
grant exempt organizations a permit to provide card tables and card games for
the exclusive use of their members and shall be exempted from obtaining a card
room permit pursuant to this Chapter as long as the exempt organization
complies with the Gaming Registration Act, all other State, Federal and local
laws, and provided that such exempt organization complies with this Chapter.
All such card tables shall be for the exclusive use of members of the exempt
organizations or nonpaying guests, and no charge is made for the use of the
card tables.
An authorized representative of the exempt organization shall file a
declaration of exemption executed under penalty of perjury with the City
Manager that sets forth the name and address of the exempt organization, the
number of tables to be operated, and a declaration that the exempt organization
and its members qualify for exemption from the Gaming Registration Act and from
permitting hereunder; the declaration of exemption shall be accompanied by
proof of the valid and unrevoked tax- exempt status of the exempt organization
granted by the Franchise Tax Board and/or the Internal Revenue Service. No
registration fee shall be required.
No exempt organization shall operate, conduct, or carry on legal gaming within
the building, structure, lot, or premises within any calendar week, if any
other exempt organization has conducted, carried on, or operated legal gaming
within such building, structure, lot or premises during the same calendar week.
The City Council's decision under this Section shall be final.
   (B)   Existing Card Rooms: Each valid card room permit in effect on January
1, 1995, shall be permitted to continue operation so long as the card playing
area, the number of tables, the games played, and the location are not amended
in any way. Such card rooms shall operate under the following provisions:
      1.   No person shall engage in managing, conducting or carrying on the
business of maintaining a place where tables are used by the public for playing
cards, until such person shall have first obtained a permit to conduct the
business.
      2.   Every person proposing to engage in carrying on or conducting the
business of maintaining a place where tables are used by the public for playing
cards shall make out an application to the Police Chief for a permit to so do.
      3.   The Police Chief in consultation with the Fire Chief and the
Building Official is hereby directed to investigate the location, building and
premises of the applicant for a permit; provided, that there is at least one
entrance from the street or public parking area, and at least one window in the
front thereof adjacent to the street or parking area. No doors, screens or
other obstructions shall be used to conceal the players at any table.
      4.   Nothing herein contained shall be in any manner construed as
permitting any gaming prohibited by the laws of the State, or the provisions of
this Code.
      5.   No permittee or his agent shall allow any person under the age of
twenty one (21) years to play cards or otherwise patronize his place of
business.
      6.   The permit fee for carrying on or conducting the business heretofore
described in this subsection shall be one thousand five hundred dollars
($1,500.00) per annum payable quarterly in advance, for any number of tables up
to five (5). (Ord. 663-99, 2-16-1999)
4-17-32: EFFECTIVE ACTION:
The Ordinance codified herein shall take effect thirty (30) days after its
adoption, authorizing card clubs in which games permitted by law such as draw
poker, low-ball poker, and pancjuincjue (pan) are played and allowed. This
Chapter as heretofore set forth is to govern such card rooms notwithstanding
any other ordinance. (Ord. 663-99, 2-16-1999)
4-17-33: CERTIFICATION AND PUBLICATION:
The City Clerk shall certify the adoption of the Ordinance codified herein, and
shall cause the same to be published in the manner prescribed by law. (Ord.
663-99, 2-16-1999)
CHAPTER 18
FILM PRODUCTION
SECTION:
4-18-1: Definitions
4-18-2: Permits And Exemptions
4-18-3: Rules And Regulations
4-18-4: Applications And Issuance
4-18-5: Insurance Provisions
4-18-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this Chapter the following words and phrases shall have the
meanings as set forth in this Section:
CHARITABLE FILMS: Commercials, motion pictures, television, videotapes, or
still photography produced by a nonprofit organization, which qualifies under
section 501(c)(3) or 501(c)(4) of the Internal Revenue Code as a charitable
organization. No person, directly or indirectly, shall receive a profit from
the marketing and production of the film or from showing the films, tapes or
photos.
MOTION PICTURE: All activity associated with staging or shooting commercial
motion pictures, television shows or programs, and commercials.
NEWS MEDIA: The filming or videotaping for the purpose of spontaneous,
unplanned television news broadcast by reporters, photographers or cameramen.
(Ord. 658-98, 4-21-1998)
4-18-2: PERMITS AND EXEMPTIONS:
   (A)   Permits: No person shall use any public or private property, facility
or residence for the purpose of making commercial motion pictures or television
pictures or commercial still photography without first applying for and
receiving a permit.
   (B)   Exemptions:
      1.   News Media: The provisions of this Chapter shall not apply to or
affect reporters, photographers or cameramen in the employ of a newspaper, news
service, or similar entity engaged in on-the-spot broadcasting of news events
concerning those persons, scenes or occurrences which are in the news and of
general public interest.
      2.   Private Videos: The filming or videotaping of motion pictures solely
for private, family use. (Ord. 658-98, 4-21-1998)
4-18-3: RULES AND REGULATIONS:
   (A)   Rules: The City Manager or his/her designee is hereby authorized and
directed to promulgate rules and regulations governing the form, time and
location of any film activity set forth within the City. He/she shall also
provide for the issuance of permits. The rules and regulations shall be based
upon the following criteria:
      1.   The health and safety of all persons;
      2.   Avoidance of undue disruption of all persons within the affected
area;
      3.   The safety of property within the City; and
      4.   Traffic congestion at particular locations within the City. (Ord.
658-98, 4-21-1998)
4-18-4: APPLICATIONS AND ISSUANCE:
   (A)   Issuing Authority: The issuing authority shall be the City Manager or
his/her designee.
   (B)   Applications: The following information shall be included in the
application:
      1.   The name of the owner, the address and telephone number of the place
at which the activity is to be conducted;
      2.   The specific location of such address or place;
      3.   The inclusive hours and dates such activity will transpire;
      4.   A general statement of the character or nature of the proposed
filming activity;
      5.   The name of the production company and the name, address and
telephone number of the person or persons in charge of such filming activity;
      6.   The exact number of personnel to be involved;
      7.   Use of any animals or pyrotechnics;
      8.   The exact amount/type of vehicles/equipment to be involved; and
      9.   A list of special needs from City departments.
   (C)   Filming Permit/Application Fee: Forty dollars ($40.00). This may be
waived for charitable films.
   (D)   Business License Fee: Seventy five dollars ($75.00) which includes a
review fee of thirty five dollars ($35.00). This may be waived for charitable
films.
   (E)   Reimbursement For Personnel: The production company shall reimburse
the City for any personnel/equipment provided to the company (i.e., police,
fire, traffic control) for the purpose of assisting the production.
   (F)   Cleanup/Restoration Deposit: To ensure cleanup and restoration of the
site, an applicant may be required to post a refundable deposit at the time
application is submitted. Upon completion of filming and inspection of the site
by the City, the deposit may be returned to the applicant.
   (G)   Change Of Date: Upon the request of the applicant, the issuing
authority shall have the power, upon a showing of good cause, to change the
date for which the permit has been issued, provided established limitations are
complied with in respect to time and location. (Ord. 658-98, 4-21-1998)
4-18-5: INSURANCE PROVISIONS:
   (A)   Commercial General Liability Insurance: One million dollars
($1,000,000.00) per occurrence for bodily injury, personal injury and property
damage. The City, its officers, officials, employees and volunteers shall be
named as additional insured. The production company's insurance shall be
primary as respects the City, its officers, officials, employees and
volunteers. Any insurance or self-insurance maintained by the City shall be
excess of the production company and shall not contribute with it. The coverage
shall not be canceled except after thirty (30) days' written notice to the
City. A general liability endorsement as provided by the City shall be
submitted prior to issuance of a permit under this Chapter.
   (B)   Workers' Compensation Insurance: An applicant shall conform to all
applicable Federal and State requirements for workers' compensation insurance
for all persons operating under a permit.
   (C)   Hold Harmless Agreement: An applicant shall execute a hold harmless
agreement as provided by the City prior to the issuance of a permit under this
Chapter. (Ord. 658-98, 4-21-1998)
CHAPTER 19
TAXICABS
SECTION:
4-19-1: Definitions
4-19-2: Permit Required; Exceptions
4-19-3: Petition For Permit
4-19-4: Additional Or Substitute Vehicles And Taxi Stands
4-19-5: Permit Revocation Or Suspension; Hearing Notice
4-19-6: Appeal Hearing, Permit
4-19-7: Permit Entitles Holder To License
4-19-8: Insurance
4-19-9: Vehicle Identification
4-19-10: Advertising On
4-19-11: Numbers
4-19-12: Identity Lights
4-19-13: Inspection
4-19-14: Taximeter
4-19-15: Receipts Given Upon Request
4-19-16: Trip Sheets And Driver's Report
4-19-17: Direct Route; Passenger Limit
4-19-18: Availability Of Service
4-19-19: Soliciting Passengers; Loading
4-19-20: Establishment Of Rates
4-19-21: Waiting Time
4-19-22: Charging Other Than Established Fares Prohibited
4-19-23: Display Of Rates
4-19-24: Refusal To Pay Fare
4-19-25: Carrier Responsibility
4-19-26: Carrier Compliance Required
4-19-27: Employment Of Drivers
4-19-28: Driver's Permit
4-19-29: Driver's Permit Revocation Or Suspension; Appeal Hearing
4-19-30: Taxi Stand Permit; Standing Restrictions
4-19-31: Nonliability
4-19-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter the following terms shall be deemed and
construed to have the meanings respectively ascribed to them in this section,
unless from the particular context it clearly appears that some other meaning
is intended:
CARRIER: Means and includes every person, corporation, partnership, joint
venture or other form of business organization, their lessees, receivers or
trustee, engaged in operating for hire, taxicabs as defined herein.
DRIVER: Means and includes every person driving, operating, or in charge of any
vehicle as defined by this section as a "taxicab".
TAXI STAND: A place on a public street designated by the city for the use,
while awaiting employment, of any vehicle covered by this chapter.
TAXICAB: Means and includes every vehicle used for the transportation of
passengers over the streets of the city, but not over defined routes, at rates
for distance traveled, or for waiting time, or for both, the charge to patrons
being determined and indicated by the mechanical calculation of a "taximeter"
as defined herein.
TAXIMETER: Means and includes a mechanical instrument, or device, by which the
charge for hire of a taxicab is mechanically calculated, either for distance
traveled, or for waiting time, or for both, and upon which such charge is
plainly registered by means of figures, indicating dollars and cents. (Ord.
710-04, 4-20-2004)
4-19-2: PERMIT REQUIRED; EXCEPTIONS:
Except as provided herein, no person shall drive, operate, or cause to be
operated, nor shall any person employ, permit, or allow another to drive,
operate, or cause to be operated, any vehicle covered by this chapter over any
street of the city for the purpose of transporting a passenger, or passengers,
for compensation, regardless of whether such operation extends beyond the
boundary limits of the city, without a permit first obtained from the city
authorizing such operation. Said permit shall be in the immediate possession of
every taxicab driver while operating a taxicab and shall be visible to all
passengers within a taxicab. Exceptions to this section are as follows:
   (A)   A vehicle which is lawfully transporting a passenger or passengers
from a point outside Taft city limits, to a destination within city limits, or
is en route through this city to destination outside the city; provided, that
no such vehicle shall, without such permit, solicit or accept a passenger, or
passengers, from within Taft city limits for transportation to any destination
whatsoever.
   (B)   A vehicle being operated pursuant to a franchise issued by the city,
pursuant to authority of the public utilities commission of the state, or
pursuant to regulations of the interstate commerce commission, unless
authorized by law.
   (C)   A vehicle being operated for the purpose of transporting bona fide
pupils attending an institution of learning between their homes and such
institutions. (Ord. 710-04, 4-20-2004)
4-19-3: PETITION FOR PERMIT:
   (A)   Any person desiring a permit to operate vehicles covered by this
chapter shall file a petition with the city. Such petition shall be verified by
oath of the applicant, if a natural person; or by oath of an officer or partner
of the applicant, if the applicant is a corporation, partnership, association
or unincorporated company, and which petition shall set forth the name, age and
address of the petitioner, of a natural person; or if a corporation, its name,
date and place of incorporation, address of its principal place of business and
the names of all its officers together with their respective addresses; or if a
partnership association or unincorporated company, then the names of the
partners comprising the partnership, association or company, together with
their respective ages and addresses. The petition shall also state the trade
name or style, if any, under which the applicant proposes operations and the
manner in which such proposed operations are to be conducted, the type, model,
capacity and condition of the vehicles proposed to be operated, a full
statement of the petitioner's assets and liabilities, and such other additional
information as the city manager may require.
   (B)   The city shall, upon receipt of such petition, make full and complete
inquiry into the facts set forth therein and shall either grant or deny the
permit. Such permit shall be for a specified number of vehicles, which shall
only be increased by authority of the city manager.
Such permit may, at the pleasure of the city, be for a prescribed period or for
an indefinite period; provided, that in either event, the permit shall contain
a clause authorizing its revocation, or suspension, in accordance with the
ordinances of the city either in effect at the date of granting the permit or
thereafter adopted. When issued, such permit shall constitute evidence of
compliance with the terms of this chapter and shall authorize the permittee to
operate vehicles under the conditions therein specified; subject, however, to
the requirements, obligations and limitations imposed by the other applicable
law, ordinances and orders of the city manager, and shall become effective only
upon payment of the fees required by the provisions of the license ordinance of
the city. (Ord. 710-04, 4-20-2004)
4-19-4: ADDITIONAL OR SUBSTITUTE VEHICLES AND TAXI STANDS:
   (A)   Any person holding a permit to operate one or more vehicles covered by
this chapter, or who desires to add to the number of taxi stands to be
occupied, shall do so only upon obtaining from the city permission, which shall
be granted only upon application made in the same manner and under the same
proceedings as are required in this chapter for obtaining the original permit.
   (B)   Any owner holding a permit to operate one or more vehicles covered by
this chapter, who desires to substitute a different vehicle for a vehicle
operating under such permit shall do so only upon obtaining from the city
permission therefor, which shall be granted only upon the written application
setting forth the particulars of such proposed substitution, and upon otherwise
complying with the requirements of this chapter. The city shall have the same
authority in granting or denying such application for permission to add or
substitute as is vested in this chapter in the matter of original applications,
and the applicant shall have the same right for review of such decisions as set
out in this chapter. (Ord. 710-04, 4-20-2004)
4-19-5: PERMIT REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION; HEARING NOTICE:
   (A)   The city manager shall have the power to suspend any carrier permit
for a period of time not longer than five (5) days, or to revoke any or all of
the carrier permits granted under the provisions of this chapter when he/she
has determined that any of the provisions of this chapter have been violated,
or that any holder of such a permit has failed to comply with the terms of such
permit or the rules and regulations of the city pertaining to the operation,
and to the extent, character and quality of the service, of any such vehicles.
Before revocation of such permit the carrier shall be entitled to a hearing
before the city manager, and shall be notified.
   (B)   Notice of hearing on such revocation shall be in writing and served
upon the holder of such permit or its manager, or agent, which notice shall
state the grounds of complaint against the holder of such permit and shall also
state the time when, and the place where, such hearing will be held; the
hearing shall in no event be later than five (5) days from the date of such
notice. In the event the holder of such permit cannot be found, or service of
such notice cannot be made upon it, or him, in the manner provided in this
chapter, then a copy of such notice shall be mailed, postage fully prepaid,
addressed to such carrier at his or its last known address. (Ord. 710-04, 4-20-
2004)
4-19-6: APPEAL HEARING, PERMIT:
   (A)   Should any applicant or applicants be dissatisfied with the decision
of the city manager not to grant a permit or for the revocation of a permit,
then such applicant may make written objection to the Taft city council setting
forth the grounds for dissatisfaction, whereupon the city council shall hear
such objections at its next regular meeting, giving written notice thereof to
such applicant, and upon such hearing may sustain, suspend or overrule the
decision of the city manager, which such decision shall be final and
conclusive.
   (B)   Pending the hearing before the city council, the decision of the city
manager shall remain in full force and effect and any reversal by the city
council shall not be retroactive but shall take effect as of the date of the
city council's decision. (Ord. 710-04, 4-20-2004)
4-19-7: PERMIT ENTITLES HOLDER TO LICENSE:
The permits mentioned in this chapter shall entitle the holder thereof to
obtain licenses to engage in the business described in such permits upon
payment of the required license fees, providing the holder of such permits
complies with all other terms and conditions applicable thereto contained in
other laws and ordinances. (Ord. 710-04, 4-20-2004)
4-19-8: INSURANCE:
   (A)   It is unlawful for an owner or driver to operate a taxicab unless
there is in full force and effect a policy of insurance whereby the owner and
driver of each taxicab operated within the city are insured against liability
for damage to property and for injury to or death of any person as a result of
the ownership, operation or any use thereof. The minimum liability limits upon
each such vehicle shall be subject to the approval of the city manager and city
attorney. Such policy of insurance shall also contain an endorsement providing
that the policy shall not be canceled or materially modified until notice in
writing has been given to the city, addressed to the risk manager of the city
of Taft, at least thirty (30) days immediately prior to the time such
cancellation or material modification becomes effective. Furthermore, such
policy of insurance shall name the city, its mayor, and its officers, agents
and employees as additional named insureds. Additionally, a vehicle owner and
driver shall indemnify, defend and hold harmless the city, its mayor, officers,
agents and employees from claims arising from or alleged to arise from the
operation of the vehicle owner or driver.
   (B)   The motor vehicle liability policy shall inure to the benefit of any
and all persons suffering loss or damage, either to person or property, as
provided in this chapter, and the liability of the insurance carrier shall be
in no manner abrogated or abated by the death of the tort feasor and/or the
owner. The motor vehicle liability insurance shall be a continuing liability up
to the full amount thereof notwithstanding any recovery thereon, and the policy
shall so certify.
   (C)   The policy and policy amounts shall be subject to the approval of the
city manager and city attorney.
   (D)   In addition to liability insurance, an owner or carrier shall also
provide proof of workers' compensation insurance to the city manager, if
applicable.
   (E)   If, at any time, the policy of insurance required under this chapter
is canceled or materially modified by the company issuing the same, the owner
shall, within ten (10) days of notice of such cancellation or modification,
replace such policy with another policy satisfactory to the city manager and
city attorney. Failure to maintain the minimum levels and standards of required
insurance for any period of time is a violation of this chapter and shall be
sufficient grounds for suspension, revocation or nonrenewal of a permit. (Ord.
710-04, 4-20-2004)
4-19-9: VEHICLE IDENTIFICATION:
   (A)   No permit shall be granted to any carrier to operate any vehicle
covered by this chapter whose color scheme, name, trade name, monogram or
insignia is in conflict with, or in imitation of, any color scheme, name, trade
name, monogram or insignia used by any other "carrier" as defined in section
4-19-1 of this chapter, and which shall be of such character and nature as to
be misleading or deceptive to the public.
   (B)   All color schemes or changes in color scheme shall be approved by the
city manager prior to a carrier conducting business under this chapter. (Ord.
710-04, 4-20-2004)
4-19-10: ADVERTISING ON:
Advertising may be carried on the outside or inside of taxicabs, provided only
that the advertising shall first be approved as to size and form by the city
manager. (Ord. 710-04, 4-20-2004)
4-19-11: NUMBERS:
   (A)   A series of numbers shall be assigned by the chief of police to
carriers for use on their taxicabs.
   (B)   Each taxicab operated pursuant to the terms of this chapter shall be
numbered.
   (C)   Numbers shall be displayed on the driver side, passenger side and rear
of the taxicab and painted upon the body of the taxicab in numerals of a size,
color, visibility and position or positions approved from time to time by the
chief of police. (Ord. 710-04, 4-20-2004)
4-19-12: IDENTITY LIGHTS:
   (A)   Every taxicab shall be equipped with an identity light attached to the
top of such taxicab. The identity light shall be constructed in one unit
consisting of an illuminator plate or cylinder upon which is printed the name
of the carrier and/or the words "For Hire".
   (B)   The overall dimensions for such identity light shall not exceed six
inches (6") in height or twenty inches (20") in length.
   (C)   The lights of the identity unit shall be connected to a contact switch
attached to the taximeter, and such contact switch shall operate automatically
to illuminate the identity light when the taximeter is not in operation
indicating the cab is vacant and for hire, and to extinguish the identity light
when the taximeter is in operation.
   (D)   It is unlawful to drive or operate any taxicab with the identity light
illuminated while carrying passengers for compensation, and it is unlawful to
drive, operate or be in charge of any taxicab unless the identity light is
illuminated when the taxicab is for hire. (Ord. 710-04, 4-20-2004)
4-19-13: INSPECTION:
   (A)   All vehicles operated by any "carrier" as defined in section
4-19-1 of this chapter shall, before being placed in service, be approved by
the chief of police of the city and comply with all state of California
statutes regulating taxicabs. All the vehicles shall be of a design and type of
construction as shall comply with orders and regulations pertaining to the
equipment adopted from time to time by the city manager. The vehicles shall at
times be kept in a clean and sanitary condition and in good state of repair,
and shall be subject to constant inspection by the chief of police. Any vehicle
which becomes unsafe, or unserviceable, either from the standpoint of its state
of repair, or its condition of obsolescence, may be retired from service upon
order of the chief of police, and no vehicle which has been so retired shall be
again operated in such service except with approval of the chief of police.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to operate a taxicab after being placed out of
service without being reinspected by the chief of police for the city.
   (C)   In the event the condition of any vehicle shall, in the opinion of the
chief of police, be so unclean, unsightly or mechanically defective as to be
undesirable for use by the public, the chief of police may require such vehicle
to be immediately withdrawn from service and such vehicle shall not be again
placed in service until approved by the chief of police.
   (D)   It is unlawful for a taxicab or its driver to carry, contain or
otherwise possess or receive information from any type of device which monitors
other taxicab activities or public safety calls. (Ord. 710-04, 4-20-2004)
4-19-14: TAXIMETER:
   (A)   It is unlawful for any carrier to operate any taxicab in the city
unless and until such taxicab is equipped with a taximeter of a design which
has been approved by the chief of police, and it shall be the duty of the
carrier operating such taxicab, and also the driver thereof, to keep such meter
operating at all times within such standard of accuracy as may be prescribed
from time to time by the chief of police. No passenger shall be carried in any
such taxicab unless such taximeter is in operation. This provision shall apply
regardless of whether the taxicab is engaged for a trip entirely within the
boundaries of the city or partially outside thereof, and such meter shall be
kept operating continuously during the entire time that is engaged in the
transportation of passengers for compensation, regardless of the point of
destination, provided such destination is within five (5) miles of any exterior
boundary of the city.
   (B)   The taximeter shall be placed in each taxicab so that the reading dial
showing the amount to be charged is well lighted and readily discernible to a
passenger riding in any such taxicab.
   (C)   Every taximeter used in the operation of taxicabs shall be subject to
inspection at any time by the chief of police or his representatives. Upon
discovery of any inaccuracy of such taximeter, the operator thereof shall
remove or cause to be removed from service any vehicle equipped with such
taximeter until such taximeter has been replaced and accurately adjusted.
   (D)   Every taximeter shall be inspected, tested and affixed with a label of
accuracy for the current year by "Kern County weights and measures" at the
carrier's expense. No such label shall be removed except at the time a
subsequent inspection is made. Every carrier shall provide a copy of the
taximeter inspection sheet to be placed in the carrier's file and a copy will
be retained in the vehicle for inspection at any time. The date on which such
inspection was made shall be stamped in the blank space provided for that
purpose. No such label shall be removed except at the time a subsequent
inspection is made.
   (E)   It is unlawful for any driver of any taxicab, while carrying
passengers, to display the flag attached to the taximeter in such a position as
to denote that such vehicle is not employed, or to fail to throw the "flag" of
the taximeter to a position indicating such vehicle is unemployed at the
termination of each and every service.
   (F)   All charges for taxicab service shall be calculated and indicated by a
taximeter, and at all times while the taxicab is engaged, the "flag" of the
taximeter shall be thrown into a position to register charges for mileage, or
into a position to register charges for waiting time. No taximeter shall be
used whose mechanism will register a combined charge for mileage and waiting
time in any single position, and no taximeter shall be so operated as to cause
any charge to be registered thereon except during the time while a passenger,
or passengers engage the taxicab. (Ord. 710-04, 4-20-2004)
4-19-15: RECEIPTS GIVEN UPON REQUEST:
It is unlawful for the driver of any taxicab, upon receiving full payment for a
fare as indicated by the taximeter, to refuse to give a receipt upon the
request of any passenger making such payment. (Ord. 710-04, 4-20-2004)
4-19-16: TRIP SHEETS AND DRIVER'S REPORT:
   (A)   The driver of every vehicle covered by this chapter shall keep a
complete and accurate record of each trip upon a daily trip sheet, the form of
which shall be approved by the chief of police, showing the time and place of
origin and destination of the trip, the number of passengers carried, the
mileage and the amount of the fare collected.
   (B)   This record shall be filed daily by the driver with the company by
whom he is employed or with the carrier from whom he leases the vehicle, and
such record shall be kept on file available for inspection by the chief of
police or his representatives, for a period of not less than six (6) months.
(Ord. 710-04, 4-20-2004)
4-19-17: DIRECT ROUTE; PASSENGER LIMIT:
   (A)   Every driver of a taxicab who is engaged to carry passengers shall
take the most direct route possible that will carry the passengers safely and
expeditiously to their destinations, unless otherwise directed by such
passengers.
   (B)   When a taxicab is engaged, the person or persons engaging such taxicab
shall have the exclusive right to the full and complete use of the taxicab and
it is unlawful for the carrier or driver of such taxicab to solicit or carry
additional passengers therein; it is unlawful for the carrier or driver of the
taxicab to permit any person other than the carrier or driver or paying
passenger, to occupy a taxicab whether such taxicab is waiting employment in a
regular designated stand or in motion upon the public streets; provided,
however, that where the city manager finds that public necessity requires the
grouping of passengers in such taxicabs, the city manager may issue a special
written permit, which permit shall specifically set forth the rules and
regulations under which such passenger grouping is permitted. It is unlawful
for any driver or carrier to operate, or permit to be operated, any taxicab in
violation of any of the rules and regulations set forth in such special
permits.
   (C)   The number of passengers, which may be carried in any vehicle, covered
by this chapter, shall be limited to the seating capacity of such vehicle as
specified by the manufacturer. No person shall be carried in such vehicle who
is required to share in any way the seating space occupied by another, nor
shall any person be carried who is required to occupy any space in or on such
vehicle which does not provide a seat. (Ord. 710-04, 4-20-2004)
4-19-18: AVAILABILITY OF SERVICE:
   (A)   Taxicab service shall be available at all times by telephone calls, by
engagement of the taxicab when standing at a regularly assigned stand, or when
properly hailed from the street or curb.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any carrier or driver of a taxicab to refuse or
neglect to transport any orderly person or persons upon request anywhere in the
city when a taxicab of such carrier is standing in a regularly assigned taxi
stand and such service shall be rendered immediately upon request. (Ord. 710-
04, 4-20-2004)
4-19-19: SOLICITING PASSENGERS; LOADING:
It is unlawful for any driver of a taxicab while driving such vehicle to
cruise, loiter or stop on a public street for the purpose of soliciting
passengers or seeking a place in a taxi stand, which is already occupied. It is
lawful, however, for such vehicle while proceeding to a regularly assigned taxi
stand, regularly established call station or to the carrier's principal place
of business to accept employment while hailed from the street or curb;
provided, that it is unlawful for such driver to accept passengers at any of
the following places:
   (A)   In any marked or unmarked crosswalk;
   (B)   At any regularly established bus stop;
   (C)   At any place in a street except alongside a curb;
   (D)   Alongside any curb opposite to a regularly established and marked
traffic safety zone. (Ord. 710-04, 4-20-2004)
4-19-20: ESTABLISHMENT OF RATES:
   (A)   Rates and fares charged to the public must be established by filing a
rate schedule with the city by the person/entity holding a valid permit. The
proposed rates and fares shall also be published in a local newspaper of
general circulation at the time of filing same with the city so as to provide
adequate public notice.
   (B)   The city council must review such rates at a noticed public meeting
within sixty (60) days of the filing of the rate schedule. If no such review is
held by the city council, the rates shall remain as set forth in the schedule
and shall take effect sixty (60) days from the date such rate schedule was
filed with the city. If the city council reviews the rate schedule within the
sixty (60) day period, the city council may increase, decrease or accept the
rates as submitted. The rate, as increased, decreased or accepted by the city
council, shall take effect sixty (60) days from the date such rate schedule was
originally filed with the city. (Ord. 710-04, 4-20-2004)
4-19-21: WAITING TIME:
For the purpose of this chapter, "waiting time" means the time consumed while
the taxicab is not in motion or at the direction of a passenger and also the
time consumed while waiting for a passenger after having responded to a call,
but no charge shall be made for the time consumed by the premature response to
a call, or for the first three (3) minutes following timely arrival at any
location in response to a call or for the time lost through traffic
interruptions or for delays. (Ord. 710-04, 4-20-2004)
4-19-22: CHARGING OTHER THAN ESTABLISHED FARES PROHIBITED:
It is unlawful for any carrier, or any agent or employee thereof, or any driver
or operator of any vehicle covered by this chapter, to charge, demand, receive,
arrange, solicit or bargain for any amount of compensation other than the rates
or fares established and authorized by this chapter. (Ord. 710-04, 4-20-2004)
4-19-23: DISPLAY OF RATES:
Every taxicab used or operated under this chapter shall, at all times, have
displayed therein a location, or locations, and in a manner which has been
approved by the chief of police, the rates to be charged for such taxicab
service, and which rates shall always be visible to all passengers in such
taxicab. (Ord. 710-04, 4-20-2004)
4-19-24: REFUSAL TO PAY FARE:
It is unlawful for any person to refuse to pay the authorized fare of any
vehicles mentioned in this chapter after having employed the same, and it is
unlawful for any person to hire any vehicle covered by this chapter with intent
to defraud the person from whom it is hired, or engaged of the value of such
service. (Ord. 710-04, 4-20-2004)
4-19-25: CARRIER RESPONSIBILITY:
It is unlawful for any "carrier", as defined in section
4-19-1 of this chapter to permit the operation of any vehicle governed or
affected by this chapter by any person other than a holder of a driver's permit
as required by section
4-19-28 of this chapter. (Ord. 710-04, 4-20-2004)
4-19-26: CARRIER COMPLIANCE REQUIRED:
Carrier shall, at its sole cost, comply with all the requirements of municipal,
state, and federal authorities now in force, or which may hereafter be in
force, governing the taxicab industry, including, but not limited to, laws
governing independent contracting. (Ord. 710-04, 4-20-2004)
4-19-27: EMPLOYMENT OF DRIVERS:
Vehicles covered by this chapter, including leased vehicles, shall be operated
only by the carrier or by a person, or persons, employed by the carrier. (Ord.
710-04, 4-20-2004)
4-19-28: DRIVER'S PERMIT:
   (A)   Required: It is unlawful for any person to drive, operate or be in
charge of, any taxicab governed or affected by this chapter, without having
first obtained a driver's permit, issued pursuant to this chapter to do so.
   (B)   Application; Fee: The applicant for such permit shall appear
personally and file with the chief of police an application in writing, upon a
form furnished by the chief of police, containing such information as the chief
of police may require. Such application shall be accompanied by a service fee
pursuant to subsection
4-2-28(A)23(a) of this title. Such fee shall not be refunded for any reason. In
addition to his application, the applicant shall furnish to the police
department at the time he submits his application three (3) passport sized
recent photographs of acceptable quality and shall be further required to
furnish new photographs upon request of the police department when the original
photographs are no longer suitable.
   (C)   Issuance: Upon receipt of such application accompanied by the required
fee as provided in subsection (B) of this section, the chief of police shall,
subject to the conditions contained in subsection (D) of this section, issue to
such applicant a driver's permit. Such permit shall state the name of the
carrier by whom the holder thereof is to be employed and shall authorize the
applicant to drive, operate or be in charge of any vehicle operated pursuant to
the provisions of this chapter only by the carrier named in the permit;
provided, however, that the permit holder may change his employer and drive,
operate or be in charge of vehicles operated pursuant to this chapter by
another carrier after securing from the chief of police an endorsement on his
driver's permit of a change of carrier as provided in this chapter.
   (D)   Restrictions: No driver's license shall be issued to any such
applicant who is under the age of eighteen (18) years, or who is not the holder
of a valid, unrevoked and unsuspended class C license issued by the state. A
prior conviction of any of the offenses mentioned in subsection
4-19-29(A) of this chapter, shall be a good cause for denial of the driver's
permit by reason of such conviction. The chief of police shall consult such
records and consider such evidence as is available to him at the time of acting
on the application to determine the fitness of the applicant. In addition, all
applicants shall take and pass with negative results a controlled substance and
alcohol test in accordance with California Government Code section 53075.5 as
it may be amended or renumbered. Such test shall be taken no more than thirty
(30) days preceding the date the application is filed for a new permit or
renewal of an expired permit and the negative results must be received by the
chief of police no later than thirty (30) days after the date the application
is filed. Failure to meet these deadlines shall result in the invalidation of
the permit process. The test shall be taken in a certified national institute
on drug abuse (NIDA) laboratory, certified documentation of the results shall
be submitted to the chief of police in the time frames outlined herein along
with sufficient identifying factors to match the test results with the
permittee.
   (E)   Investigation: As soon as possible, before the issuance of a driver's
permit, the chief of police shall make such further investigation of the
character and fitness of the applicant as he deems necessary. After the
completion of such further investigation, if he is satisfied that the
operation, by the applicant, of a vehicle authorized to be operated under the
terms of this chapter will be detrimental to the public health, peace, safety
or welfare, or that the holder of such driver's permit is unfit to hold the
same, he shall revoke such driver's permit as provided in section
4-19-29 of this chapter.
   (F)   Effective Period: The chief of police shall keep a copy of such
driver's permit on file in his office. Such driver's permit shall constitute
evidence of compliance with the terms of this chapter. Such driver's permit
shall be effective until the expiration date printed thereon pursuant to
subsection (G) of this section, or until suspended or revoked as provided in
section
4-19-29 of this chapter.
   (G)   Expiration: All permits issued pursuant to this chapter shall expire
on the three hundred sixty fifth day following the date of its issuance, unless
suspended or revoked as provided herein.
   (H)   Renewal: A renewal driver's permit shall be issued by the chief of
police to any permittee who has paid a renewal fee pursuant to subsection
4-2-28(A)23(b) of this title and completed all the requirements, including, but
not limited to, the controlled substance and alcohol test as indicated in
subsection (D) of this section.
   (I)   Change Of Carrier: An endorsement of a change of carrier by whom a
permit holder may be employed shall be made on a permit by the chief of police
whenever the holder thereof makes application therefor and pays a transfer fee
pursuant to subsection
4-2-28(A)23(c) of this title.
   (J)   Duplicate; Fee: A fee pursuant to subsection
4-2-28(A)23(d) of this title shall be collected for the issuance of each
duplicate driver's permit.
   (K)   Transfer: In the event that a driver holding a valid permit issued by
the county requests a transfer to a company operating within the city, the
chief of police may accept the results of the investigation made by the county
and issue a city permit to such driver or may require an investigation similar
to that required for a new permit; however, in either case, a transfer fee
pursuant to subsection
4-2-28(A)23(c) of this title is required.
   (L)   Operation Within City Limits: If a driver works for a company which is
located outside the corporate limits of the city, but licensed to operate both
in the city and county, such driver will be required to obtain a permit from
the chief of police without regard to any other permit he may have or be
required to have by any other agency.
   (M)   Termination Of Employment Of Any Taxi Driver:
      1.   An employer shall notify the chief of police, in writing, of the
termination of employment of any taxi driver, and driver shall return his/her
permit to the city.
      2.   Upon termination of employment, a driver's permit shall become void.
(Ord. 710-04, 4-20-2004)
4-19-29: DRIVER'S PERMIT REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION; APPEAL HEARING:
   (A)   The chief of police may summarily revoke or suspend any driver's
permit issued under the provisions of this chapter; provided that the chief has
knowledge that the holder thereof, either before or after issuance of the
driver's permit, made misrepresentations on the application, has been convicted
of violating any of the provisions of this chapter, or the applicant has been
convicted of a crime substantially related to the qualifications, functions or
duties of the business for which the application is made, including, but not
limited to, a violation of the controlled substances act, or of assault,
battery, pandering, prostitution, pimping, theft, driving a vehicle while under
the influence of intoxicants or narcotics, reckless driving, or a violation of
any law involving moral turpitude.
      1.   It is unlawful for any person to drive, operate or be in charge of
any vehicle governed or affected by this chapter during the time that the
driver's permit has been suspended or after the same has been revoked.
   (B)   Any driver who may be aggrieved by the action of the chief of police
in suspending or revoking the driver's permit or temporary driver's permit, or
any applicant who may be aggrieved by the permit denial by the chief of police,
may within ten (10) days from such denial, suspension or revocation, make
written objection to the city manager stating the grounds for grievance,
whereupon the city manager shall fix a date for hearing such objections, giving
written notice thereof to such applicant, and upon such hearing may sustain,
suspend or overrule the decision of the chief of police, which decision of the
city manager shall be final and conclusive. Such order of suspension or
revocation by the chief of police shall remain in full force and effect unless
and until acted upon and reversed or modified by the city manager. (Ord. 710-
04, 4-20-2004)
4-19-30: TAXI STAND PERMIT; STANDING RESTRICTIONS:
   (A)   It is unlawful for any carrier, or driver of any vehicle operated
pursuant to the terms of this chapter, to stand, or permit, any such vehicle at
any place upon any portion of the streets of the city other than at a certain
place designated by the city manager and assigned to the carrier operating such
vehicle.
   (B)   Permits may be issued by the city manager to carriers operating
pursuant to the terms of this chapter allowing the vehicles of such carriers,
while awaiting employment, to stand at certain designated places upon the
streets of the city; provided, however, that no such permit shall be granted
except upon the written application of the carrier desiring such stand, filed
with the city manager, stating the proposed location of such stand. The
application shall be accompanied by the written consent of the occupant of the
first floor of any building of that property in front of which it is desired to
establish such vehicle stand, or if any such building is a motel/hotel, the
written consent of the manager of such motel/hotel, or if there is not a
building on the premises in front of which it is desired that such vehicle
shall stand, or if there is a building and the first floor is not occupied,
then the written consent of the owner, agent, or lessee of such building or
premises. In the event that the occupant, manager, owner, agent or lessee
mentioned above in this subsection refuses, fails or neglects to grant consent
to the establishing of a taxi stand at the location proposed, the city manager
shall set a time of hearing on such application, which shall be not less than
ten (10) days nor more than thirty (30) days from the time of filing such
application, and each and every person qualified under these provisions to make
or offer a formal objection to establishing such taxi stand at the location
proposed shall be notified in writing not less than five (5) days prior to such
hearing, at which time he shall be given an opportunity to be heard.
Notwithstanding the failure or refusal of the occupant, manager, owner, agent
or lessee as mentioned in this subsection to grant consent to the establishing
of a taxi stand in front of the building or premises as proposed, or any formal
objection offered thereto, the city manager shall have the right to grant or
deny any application for a taxi stand, and may issue or refuse to issue such
permit.
   (C)   At the time of making application for a permit as provided for in this
section, the applicant shall verify, under oath, that he has not, nor has
anyone for him or on his behalf paid, or promised to pay, or offered to pay,
nor agreed to pay, deliver or give anything of value for obtaining the consent
or endorsement by the occupant or person required to give such consent to the
granting of a permit to occupy any stand upon the streets as required in
subsection (B) of this section, such person shall be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor.
   (D)   All permits for taxi stands so issued shall contain a provision to the
effect that they are, and they shall be, subject to revocation by the city
manager at any time.
   (E)   It is unlawful for any vehicle to occupy any regularly established
taxi stand unless such vehicle is one being operated by the carrier to which
such taxi stand has been assigned as provided in this section.
   (F)   It is unlawful for the driver of any taxicab to allow such taxicab to
remain in any taxi stand, as set out in this section, unattended for a period
of time longer than ten (10) minutes.
   (G)   No carrier or driver of any taxicab shall solicit passengers at a
distance greater than ten feet (10') from his taxicab. (Ord. 710-04, 4-20-2004)
4-19-31: NONLIABILITY:
City obligations described in this chapter shall not be considered mandatory
duties for purposes of the California torts claim act, Government Code section
815 et seq., including, but not limited to, the failure of the city to inspect
any taxicab, negligent inspection of any taxicab by the city, the issuance of
any permit or the failure to suspend or revoke any permit. (Ord. 710-04, 4-20-
2004)
CHAPTER 20
THERAPEUTIC MASSAGE
SECTION:
4-20-1: Definitions
4-20-2: License And Permits
4-20-3: Unlawful To Operate Without Permit; Exceptions
4-20-4: Applications
4-20-5: Regulations
4-20-6: Revocation And Appeal
4-20-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following definitions shall apply when interpreting the intent or meaning
of the requirements and guidelines of this chapter, subject to compliance with
Division 2, Chapter 10.5 Massage Therapy Act of the Business and Professions
Code [Section 4600 - 4621].
 
COUNCIL:               The non-profit California Massage Therapy Council
                       (CAMTC) created pursuant to the Massage Therapy Act.
MASSAGE:               The scientific manipulation of the soft tissues.
                       An establishment having a permanent physical location
MASSAGE ESTABLISHMENT: for business where any person engages in massage for
                       compensation.
MASSAGE THERAPIST:     A person who is certified by the CAMTC who administers
                       massage for compensation.
                       Any individual, partnership, corporation or association,
PERSON:                of any nature whatsoever. (Ord. 714-04, 7-6-2004; amd.
                       Ord. 835-20, 5-5-2020)
 
4-20-2: LICENSE AND PERMITS:
A city business license and the following are required:
   (A)   Massage Establishment Permit: A massage establishment will be required
to obtain a Taft city business license and a massage establishment permit. All
massage therapists performing massage at that location are required to obtain a
massage therapist permit.
   (B)   Massage Therapist Permit: A massage therapist will be required to
obtain a Taft city business license and a massage therapist permit to perform
therapeutic massage.
   (C)   Kern County Public Health: A massage establishment will be required to
obtain from Kern County Public Health an Environmental Health Permit to Operate
a Massage Establishment per Chapter 8.70 of the Kern County Code of Ordinances.
(Ord. 714-04, 7-6-2004; amd. Ord. 835-20, 5-5-2020)
4-20-3: UNLAWFUL TO OPERATE WITHOUT PERMIT; EXCEPTIONS:
   (A)   Except as provided in subsections (B) and (C) of this section, it is
unlawful for any person to keep, maintain or operate a massage establishment,
or to perform massage for a fee, profit or other compensation, in the city, in
violation of this chapter or without having first obtained a massage
establishment permit, from the city of Taft. Except as otherwise provided in
this section, each massage therapist must hold a valid massage permit. No more
than one massage establishment permit shall be required for any establishment
in a single location.
An independent contractor conducting massage, must obtain a Taft city business
license regardless of the exceptions in subsections (B) and (C) of this
section.
   (B)   Subsection (A) of this section shall not apply to the following
persons and establishments wherein the only persons performing massage are the
following:
      1.   Physicians, nurses, physical therapists, chiropractors, osteopaths
or cosmetologists licensed in their respective professions by the state of
California pursuant to the code of Business and Professions.
      2.   Massage therapists holding valid diplomas or certificates of
graduation from a school or other institution licensed by the state of
California (wherein the method, profession or work of massage is taught,
showing completion of at least 100 classroom hours and 100 hours of internship,
both on the subject of massage) performing under the direction of, and in the
presence of, a physician, nurse, physical therapist, chiropractor, or osteopath
licensed by the state of California pursuant to the code of Business and
Professions.
   (C)   Health facilities licensed as such by the state of California pursuant
to the Health and Safety Code, shall not be required to obtain a permit as a
massage establishment. Persons holding a massage therapist permit, or who are
otherwise authorized to perform massage pursuant to this section, may perform
massage on residents in such health facilities without having obtained a
permit. (Ord. 714-04, 7-6-2004; amd. Ord. 835-20, 5-5-2020)
4-20-4: APPLICATIONS:
   (A)   Applications for permits under this section shall be obtained from the
city of Taft. The completed application shall be submitted to Taft police
department no less than fourteen (14) days prior to the commencement of
business.
   (B)   Each application will list the requirements and conditions that must
be met to successfully obtain a permit.
   (C)   Each applicant will be required to submit to a fingerprint
identification and criminal history check, including photographs.
   (D)   Each applicant will pay a fee of one hundred dollars ($100.00) to the
police department for the processing of the application which includes the
fingerprinting, photographs and background check.
   (E)   Applicants for permits under this section who intend to teach massage
or open a massage school, shall in addition to all other requirements of this
code, submit a valid license from the state of California authorizing such
activity. (Ord. 714-04, 7-6-2004; amd. Ord. 835-20, 5-5-2020)
4-20-5: REGULATIONS:
   (A)   Massage therapy is prohibited as a mobile, house to house, or home
occupation.
   (B)   A recognizable and readable sign shall be posted at the main entrance
identifying the location as a massage establishment. All signs must comply with
city sign requirements.
   (C)   All employees of the massage establishment shall be eighteen (18)
years of age or older.
   (D)   Permits issued for massage establishments will not be transferable,
and shall be valid only as to the applicant and location provided on the
application for such permits. Permits issued for massage therapists will be
portable from massage establishment to massage establishment.
   (E)   It shall be the responsibility of the holder of the permit for the
massage establishment to ensure that each massage therapist has obtained a
massage therapist permit from the city and a city business license when
required by this chapter.
   (F)   Every massage therapist shall keep and maintain a "record of
treatment" to include the date and hour of each treatment, and the name,
address and phone number of each patron. The record shall be open to inspection
by law enforcement during business hours. The record shall be maintained for
twelve (12) months from the time of treatment. A massage establishment need not
maintain a separate "record of treatment" from the massage therapist.
   (G)   No massage establishment may operate between the hours of ten o'clock
(10:00) P.M. and six o'clock (6:00) A.M.
   (H)   Any person holding a massage establishment permit shall, during
business hours, ensure that the premises is accessible for inspection by law
enforcement or any other government employees charged with enforcing health and
safety or other laws of the city or state.
   (I)   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, massage shall be
performed only at a massage establishment for which a permit has been issued.
(Ord. 714-04, 7-6-2004; amd. Ord. 835-20, 5-5-2020)
4-20-6: REVOCATION AND APPEAL:
Massage establishment and massage therapist permits issued pursuant to this
chapter may be amended, appealed, cited penalty fees, and revoked whenever it
is found:
   (A)   That any of the terms or conditions of City issued permits have been
violated, or that the business has been operated in violation of local, state
or federal law.
   (B)   That any of the terms or conditions of Kern County Public Health
issued environmental health permits have been violated.
   (C)   Any decision of revocation or denial made by the city, may be appealed
to the city council within sixty (60) days. (Ord. 714-04, 7-6-2004; amd. Ord.
835-20, 5-5-2020)
CHAPTER 21
CITY OF TAFT ESSENTIAL SERVICES PROTECTION GENERAL TRANSACTIONS AND USE TAX
SECTION:
4-21-1: Title
4-21-2: Definitions
4-21-3: Purpose
4-21-4: Contract With State
4-21-5: Transactions Tax Rate
4-21-6: Place of Sale
4-21-7: Use Tax Rate
4-21-8: Adoption Of Provisions Of State Law
4-21-9: Limitations On Adoption Of State Law And Collection Of Use Taxes
4-21-10: Permit Not Required
4-21-11: Exemptions And Exclusions
4-21-12: Amendments
4-21-13: Prohibition On Enjoining Collection
4-21-14: Use Of Proceeds
4-21-15: Accountability And Oversight
4-21-16: Independent Annual Audit
4-21-17: Severability
4-21-18: Effective Date
4-21-1: TITLE:
This Chapter shall be known as the "City of Taft Essential Services Protection
General Transactions and Use Tax." (Ord. 845-21, 11-2-2021)
4-21-2: DEFINITIONS:
The following words and phrases shall be defined as set forth in this chapter,
except that any term or phrase not defined in this chapter shall have the same
meaning as the term or phrase is defined in Parts 1.6 and 1.7 of the California
Revenue and Taxation Code.
 
CITY:           Means City of Taft.
                Means the first day of the first calendar quarter commencing
OPERATIVE DATE: more than one hundred ten (110) days after the adoption of this
                ordinance by vote of the electorate.
ORDINANCE:      Means the City of Taft Essential Services Protection General
                Transactions and Use Tax Ordinance.
STATE:          Means the State of California. (Ord. 845-21, 11-2-2021)
 
4-21-3: PURPOSE:
This Chapter of the Taft Code of Ordinances is adopted for the following (and
among other) purposes, and directs that the provisions hereof be interpreted
liberally in order to accomplish all of its lawful purposes:
   (A)   To impose a retail transactions and use tax in accordance with the
provisions of California Revenue and Taxation Code Section 7251 et seq., and
Section 7285.9, which authorizes the City to adopt this chapter if a majority
of electors voting on the measure vote to approve the imposition of the tax at
an election called for that purpose.
   (B)   To adopt a retail transactions and use tax chapter that incorporates
provisions identical to those of the Sales and Use Tax Law of the State of
California insofar as those provisions are not inconsistent with the
requirements and limitations contained in Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue
and Taxation Code.
   (C)   To adopt a retail transactions and use tax chapter that imposes a tax
and provides a measure that can be administered and collected by the California
Department of Tax and Fee Administration in a manner that adapts itself as
fully as practicable to, and requires the least possible deviation from, the
existing statutory and administrative procedures followed by the State Board of
Equalization/California Department of Tax and Fee Administration in
administering and collecting the California State Transactions and Use Taxes.
   (D)   To adopt a retail transactions and use tax chapter that can be
administered in a manner that will, to the degree possible consistent with the
provisions of Parts 1.6 of Division 2 of the California Revenue and Taxation
Code, minimize the cost of collecting the transactions and use taxes, and at
the same time, minimize the burden of record keeping upon persons subject to
taxation under the provisions of this chapter.
   (E)   To provide transactions and use tax revenue to the City to be used for
the general governmental purposes of the City and with any transactions and use
tax revenue received being placed into the City's general fund. (Ord. 845-21,
11-2-2021)
4-21-4: CONTRACT WITH STATE:
Prior to the operative date, the City shall contract with the California
Department of Tax and Fee Administration to perform all functions incident to
the administration and operation of this chapter; provided, that if the City
shall not have contracted with the California Department of Tax and Fee
Administration prior to the operative date, it shall nevertheless so contract
and in such a case the operative date shall be the first day of the first
calendar quarter following execution of such contract. (Ord. 845-21, 11-2-2021)
4-21-5: TRANSACTIONS TAX RATE:
For the privilege of selling tangible personal property a retail transactions
tax is imposed upon all retailers in the incorporated territory of the City at
the rate of one percent (1.0%) of the gross receipts of the retailer from the
sale of all tangible personal property sold at retail within the territory of
the City on and after the operative date of this chapter. (Ord. 845-21, 11-2-
2021)
4-21-6: PLACE OF SALE:
For the purposes of this chapter, all retail sales are consummated at the place
of business of the retailer, unless the tangible personal property sold is
delivered by the retailer or his agent to an out-of-state destination or to a
common carrier for delivery to an out-of-state destination, or unless as
otherwise required by applicable law. The gross receipts from the sale shall
include delivery charges, when such charges are subject to the state sales and
use tax, regardless of the place to which delivery is made. In the event a
retailer has no permanent place of business in the State or has more than one
place of business, the place or places at which the retail sales are
consummated shall be determined under rules and regulations to be prescribed
and adopted by the State.
4-21-7: USE TAX RATE:
An excise tax is hereby imposed on the storage, use, or other consumption in
the City of tangible personal property purchased from any retailer on or after
the operative date of this chapter for storage, use or other consumption in
said territory of the City at the rate of one percent (1.0%) of the sales price
of the property. The sales price shall include delivery charges when such
charges are subject to State transactions or use tax regardless of the place to
which delivery is made. (Ord. 845-21, 11-2-2021)
4-21-8: ADOPTION OF PROVISIONS OF STATE LAW:
Except as hereinafter provided, and except insofar as they are inconsistent
with the provisions of Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code,
all of the provisions of Part 1 (commencing with Section 6001) of Division 2 of
the Revenue and Taxation code are adopted, incorporated and made a part of this
chapter as though fully set forth in it. (Ord. 845-21, 11-2-2021)
4-21-9: LIMITATIONS ON ADOPTION OF STATE LAW AND COLLECTION OF USE TAXES:
In adopting the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the California Revenue
and Taxation Code:
   (A)   Wherever the State of California is named or referred to as the taxing
agency, the name of the City of Taft shall be substituted. However, the
substitution shall not be made when:
      1.   The word "State" is used as part of the title of the State
Controller, State Treasurer, State Board of Equalization (or refers to the
California department of Tax and Fee Administration), State Treasury, or the
Constitution of the State of California;
      2.   The result of that substitution would require action to be taken by
or against the City or any agency, officer, or employee thereof rather than by
or against the State Board of Equalization/California Department of Tax and Fee
Administration, in performing the functions incident to the administration or
operation of this chapter;
      3.   In those sections, including, but no necessarily limited to sections
referring to the exterior boundaries of the State of California, where the
result of the substitution would be to:
         (a)   Provide an exemption from this tax with respect to certain
sales, storage, use or other consumption of tangible personal property which
would not otherwise be exempt from this tax while such sales, storage, use or
other consumption remain subject to tax by the State under the provisions of
Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, or;
         (b)   Impose this tax with respect to certain sales, storage, use or
other consumption of tangible personal property which would not be subject to
tax by the state under the said provision of that code.
      4.   In Sections 6701, 6702 (except in the last sentence thereof), 6711,
6715, 6737, 6797, or 6828 of the California Revenue and Taxation Code.
   (B)   The word "City" shall be substituted for the word "State" in the
phrase "retailer engaged in business in this State" in Section 6203 and in the
definition of that phrase in Section 6203. (Ord. 845-21, 11-2-2021)
4-21-10: PERMIT NOT REQUIRED:
If a seller's permit has been issued to a retailer under Section 6067 of the
California Revenue and Taxation Code, an additional transactor's permit shall
not be required by this chapter. (Ord. 845-21, 11-2-2021)
4-21-11: EXEMPTIONS AND EXCLUSIONS:
   (A)   There shall be excluded from the measure of the transactions tax and
the use tax the amount of any sales tax imposed by the State of California or
by any city, city and county, or county pursuant to the Bradley-Burns Uniform
Local Sales and Use Tax Law or the amount of any state-administered
transactions or use tax.
   (B)   There are exempted from the computation of the amount of transactions
tax the gross receipts from:
      1.   Sales of tangible personal property, other than fuel or petroleum
products, to operators of aircraft to be used or consumed principally outside
the county in which the sale is made and directly and exclusively in the use of
such aircraft as common carriers or persons or property under the authority of
the laws of this State, the United States, or any foreign government.
      2.   Sales of property to be used outside the City which is shipped to a
point outside of the City pursuant to the contract of sale by delivery to such
point by the retailer or his agent, or by delivery by the retailer to a carrier
for shipment to a consignee at such point. For the purposes of this paragraph,
delivery to a point outside the City shall be satisfied:
         (a)   With respect to vehicles (other than commercial vehicles)
subject to registration pursuant to Chapter 1 (commencing with Section 4000) of
Division 3 of the Vehicle Code, aircraft licensed in compliance with Section
21411 of the Public Utilities Code, and undocumented vessels registered under
Chapter 2 of Division 3.5 (commencing with Section 9840) of the Vehicle Code by
registration to an out-of-City address and by a declaration under penalty of
perjury, signed by the buyer, stating that such address is, in fact, his or her
principal place of residence; and
         (b)   With respect to commercial vehicles, by registration to a place
of business out-of-City and declaration under penalty of perjury, signed by the
buyer, that the vehicle will be operated from that address.
      3.   The sale of tangible personal property if the seller is obligated to
furnish the property, for fixed price pursuant to a contract entered into prior
to the Operative Date of this chapter.
      4.   A lease of tangible personal property which is a continuing sale of
such property, for any period of time for which the lessor is obligated to
lease the property for an amount fixed by the lease prior to the Operative Date
of this chapter.
      5.   For the purpose of subparagraphs (3) and (4) of this section, the
sale or lease of tangible personal property shall be deemed not to be obligated
pursuant to a contract or lease for any period of time for which any party to
the contract or lease has the unconditional right to terminated the contract or
lease upon notice, whether or not such right is exercised.
   (C)   There are exempted from the use tax imposed by this chapter, the
storage, use or other consumption in this City of tangible personal property:
      1.   The gross receipts from the sale of which have been subject to a
transactions tax under any state-administered transactions and use tax
ordinance.
      2.   Other than the fuel petroleum products purchased by operators of
aircraft and used or consumed by such operators directly and exclusively in the
use of such aircraft as common carriers of persons or property for hire or
compensation under a certificate of public convenience and necessity issued
pursuant to the laws of this State, the United States, or any foreign
government. This exemption is in addition to the exemptions provide in Sections
6366 and 6366.1 of the Revenue and Taxation Code of the State of California.
      3.   If the purchaser is obligated to purchase the property for a fixed
price pursuant to a contract entered into prior to the Operative Date of this
chapter.
      4.   A lease of tangible personal property which is a continuing sale of
such property, for any period of time for which the lessor is obligated to
lease the property for an amount fixed by the lease prior to the Operative Date
of this chapter.
      5.   For the purposes of subsections (3) and (4) of this section, the
sale or lease of tangible personal property shall be deemed not to be obligated
pursuant to a contract or lease for any period of time for which any party to
the contract or lease has the unconditional right to terminate the contract or
lease upon notice, whether or not such right is exercised.
      6.   Except as provided in subparagraph (7), a retailer engaged in
business in the City shall not be required to collect use tax from the
purchaser of tangible personal property, unless the retailer ships or delivers
the property into the City or participates within the City in making the sale
of property, including, but not limited to, soliciting or receiving the order,
either directly or indirectly, at a place of business of the retailer in the
City or through any representative, agent, canvasser, solicitor, subsidiary, or
person in the City under the authority of the retailer.
      7.   "A retailer engaged in business in the City" shall also include any
retailer of any of the following: vehicles subject to registration pursuant to
Chapter 1 (commencing with Section 4000) of Division 3 of the Vehicle code,
aircraft licensed in compliance with Section 21411 of the Public Utilities
Code, or undocumented vessels registered under Division 3.5 (commencing with
Section 9840) of the Vehicle Code. That retailer shall be required to collect
use tax from any purchaser who registers or licenses the vehicle, vessel, or
aircraft at an address in the City.
   (D)   Any person subject to use tax under this chapter may credit against
that tax any transactions tax or reimbursement for transactions tax paid to a
district imposing, or retailer liable for a transactions tax pursuant to Part
1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code with respect to the sale to
the person of the property the storage, use or other consumption of which is
subject to the use tax. (Ord. 845-21, 11-2-2021)
4-21-12: AMENDMENTS:
All amendments subsequent to the effective date of this chapter to Part 1 of
Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code relating to sales and use taxes and
which are not inconsistent with Part 1.6 and Part 1.7 of division 2 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code, and all amendments to Part 1.6 and Part 1.7 of
Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, shall automatically become adopted
and a part of this Chapter without further action of the City Council and the
City of Taft or the City's electorate, provided however, that no such amendment
shall operate so as to affect the rate of tax imposed by this Chapter. The City
Council may amend this chapter to comply with applicable law or as may be
otherwise necessary in order to further the chapter's stated purposes. (Ord.
845-21, 11-2-2021)
4-21-13: PROHIBITION ON ENJOINING COLLECTION:
No injunction or writ of mandate or other legal or equitable process shall
issue in any suit, action or proceeding in any court against the State or City,
or against any officer of the State or the City, to prevent or enjoin the
collection under this chapter, or Part 1.7 of Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code, of any tax or any amount of tax required to be collected under
this chapter. (Ord. 845-21, 11-2-2021)
4-21-14: USE OF PROCEEDS:
The proceeds from the tax imposed by this chapter shall be for unrestricted
general revenue purposes of the City and shall be received into the general
fund of the City. Nothing in this chapter shall constitute the tax imposed
under the chapter as a special tax, or bind the City to use the proceeds for
any specific purpose or function; the City Council shall retain discretion to
expend the proceeds of the tax for any lawful purpose of the City. (Ord. 845-
21, 11-2-2021)
4-21-15: ACCOUNTABILITY AND OVERSIGHT:
This chapter authorizes the City Council to form a Transactions and Use Tax
Oversight Committee, to act as an independent citizen's oversight committee for
the expenditure of tax revenue collected. The Committee's specific
responsibilities shall be established by Resolution of the City Council. (Ord.
845-21, 11-2-2021)
4-21-16: INDEPENDENT ANNUAL AUDIT:
The proceeds resulting from this transactions and use tax shall become subject
to the same independent annual audit requirements as other general fund
revenue. The independent auditor's report, which shall include an accounting of
the revenues received and expenditures made from transactions and use tax, will
be presented annually to the City Council and made available for public review.
(Ord. 845-21, 11-2-2021)
4-21-17: SEVERABILITY:
If any provision of this chapter as codified in this chapter or the application
thereof to any person or circumstance is held invalid, the remainder of the
chapter and the application of such provision to other persons or circumstances
shall not be affected thereby. Such invalidity shall not affect other
provisions or applications of the chapter which can be given effect without the
invalid provision or application, and to this end the provisions of this
chapter are severable. The people of the City of Taft hereby declare that they
would have adopted this chapter as codified in this chapter irrespective of the
invalidity of any particular portion thereof and intent that the invalid
portions should be severed, and the balance of the chapter be enforced. (Ord.
845-21, 11-2-2021)
4-21-18: EFFECTIVE DATE:
This chapter relates to the levying and collection of the City's transactions
and use taxes and shall become effective only if approved by a majority of the
voters voting on the measure. The operative date of this chapter shall then be
as defined in Section
4-21-2(b). (Ord. 845-21, 11-2-2021)
CHAPTER 22
SIDEWALK VENDING
SECTION:
4-22-1: Definitions
4-22-2: Applicability
4-22-3: Business License And Special Business Permit Required
4-22-4: Requirements For Permit Application
4-22-5: Identification Numbers; Confidentiality
4-22-6: Operational Standards
4-22-7: Location Of Carts
4-22-8: Special Requirements For Vending In City Parks
4-22-9: Special Requirements For The Sale Of Food
4-22-10: Penalties
4-22-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following words used in this chapter shall have the following meanings:
 
                            A pushcart, stand, display, pedal-driven cart,
CART:                       wagon, showcase, rack, or other nonmotorized
                            conveyance.
                            A location operated in accordance with Chapter 10.5
CERTIFIED FARMERS' MARKET:  (commencing with Section 47000) of Division 17 of
                            the Food and Agricultural Code and any regulations
                            adopted pursuant to that chapter.
ROAMING SIDEWALK VENDOR:    A sidewalk vendor who moves from place to place and
                            stops only to complete a transaction.
                            A person who sells food or merchandise from a
                            pushcart, stand, display, pedal-driven cart, wagon,
                            showcase, rack, or other nonmotorized conveyance,
SIDEWALK VENDOR:            or from one's person, upon a public sidewalk or
                            other pedestrian path. Sidewalk vendors include
                            roaming sidewalk vendors and stationary sidewalk
                            vendors.
STATIONARY SIDEWALK VENDOR: A sidewalk vendor who vends from a fixed location.
                            A location operated in accordance with Article 6
                            (commencing with Section 21660) of Chapter 9 of
SWAP MEET:                  Division 8 of the Business and Professions Code,
                            and any regulations adopted pursuant to that
                            article.
VEND OR VENDING:            Refers to operating as a sidewalk vendor. (Ord.
                            852-23, 7-18-2023)
 
4-22-2: APPLICABILITY:
The requirements of this chapter shall not apply to the following persons:
   (A)   Persons delivering goods, wares, merchandise, or food upon order of,
or by agreement with, a customer from a store or other fixed place of business
or distribution.
   (B)   Persons selling goods, wares, merchandise, or food from a motorized
vehicle, including food trucks. (Ord. 852-23, 7-18-2023)
4-22-3: BUSINESS LICENSE AND SPECIAL BUSINESS PERMIT REQUIRED:
   (A)   No person shall operate as a sidewalk vendor without first obtaining,
and at all times maintaining, a valid city business license in accordance with
chapter 2 of title IV, and complying with all requirements of the business
license, unless such person qualifies for an exemption under chapter 2 of title
IV of this code.
   (B)   No person shall operate as a sidewalk vendor without first obtaining,
and all times maintaining, a special business permit in accordance with chapter
22 of title IV, and complying with all requirements of the permit, unless such
person qualifies for an exemption under chapter 22 of title IV of this code.
   (C)   The special business permit shall be valid for one year unless revoked
or suspended prior to expiration. An application to renew a special business
permit under this chapter shall be made not later than ninety days before the
expiration of the current permit. A valid business license shall be applied for
or renewed concurrently with the special business permit each year.
   (D)   A separate business license and special business permit shall be
required for each cart. (Ord. 852-23, 7-18-2023)
4-22-4: REQUIREMENTS FOR PERMIT APPLICATION:
An application for a special business permit for sidewalk vending shall include
all of the following, to the extent applicable:
   (A)   The name, address, and telephone number of the applicant and each
person who will operate the cart.
   (B)   A photo identification of the applicant and each person who will
operate the cart.
   (C)   A description of the cart, including the dimensions of the cart, and a
photograph of the cart.
   (D)   A complete list of the food or merchandise to be sold.
   (E)   If the sidewalk vendor is an agent of an individual, company,
partnership, or corporation, the name and business address of the principal.
   (F)   The vendor's California seller's permit number (California Department
of Tax and Fee Administration sales tax number).
   (G)   A City of Taft business license.
   (H)   A copy of any license or permit required from any other state or local
agency that is required by law, including, but not limited to, a copy of any
required permit from the county health department, if required.
   (I)   A copy of a general liability insurance policy naming the City, its
officials, officers and employees as additional insureds in the amount of no
less than five hundred thousand dollars ($500,000.00).
   (J)   A certification by the applicant that to his or her knowledge and
belief, the information contained in the application is true. (Ord. 852-23, 7-
18-2023)
4-22-5: IDENTIFICATION NUMBERS; CONFIDENTIALITY:
Notwithstanding any other requirement in this code, an applicant for a business
license or special business permit to operate as a sidewalk vendor shall not be
required to submit a social security number for the issuance of such license or
permit. In lieu of an otherwise required social security number, the City shall
accept a California driver's license or identification number, an individual
taxpayer identification number, or a municipal identification number.
Identification numbers submitted under this section shall not be made available
to the public for inspection, shall be treated as confidential, and shall not
be disclosed except as required to administer the license or permit program or
to comply with a state law or state or federal court order. (Ord. 852-23, 7-18-
2023)
4-22-6: OPERATIONAL STANDARDS:
   (A)   Each cart used by a sidewalk vendor must display a valid special
business permit sticker at all times, which shall be issued by the City.
   (B)   All sidewalk vendors shall comply with the terms and conditions of the
special business permit and shall not sell any food or merchandise that was not
listed in the special business permit application.
   (C)   No stationary sidewalk vendor may operate in any residential zone;
however, roaming sidewalk vendors shall not be prohibited from operating in
such zones.
   (D)   In order to preserve the peace, safety, and tranquility of residential
neighborhoods, no sidewalk vendor may operate in any residential zone earlier
than eight o’clock (8:00) A.M. or later than thirty (30) minutes before sunset.
   (E)   In order to prevent obstructions of the public right-of-way, the total
display area footprint of the cart, including the cart itself and any
accompanying display, signage, or related items, shall not exceed a length of
seventy two inches (72"), a width of fifty four inches (54"), or a height,
including roof or awning, of seventy eight inches (78") provided that a minimum
of thirty six inches (36") of accessible path of travel without obstruction
along the sidewalk is maintained.
   (F)   In order to prevent obstructions of the public right-of-way, no
sidewalk vendor may set up or allow the use of an additional structure,
including a table, crate, carton, or rack, to increase the selling or display
capacity of the cart unless such items are explicitly allowed in the special
business permit obtained by the sidewalk vendor.
   (G)   In order to preserve sanitary conditions in all public rights-of-way,
all sidewalk vendors shall provide a trash receptacle for customers and must
ensure proper disposal of customer and vendor trash. The trash receptacle must
be large enough to accommodate customer trash without resorting to existing
trash receptacles located on any block for use by the general public. A
sidewalk vendor may not dispose of customer trash in existing trash receptacles
on sidewalks.
   (H)   In order to preserve sanitary conditions in all public rights-of-way,
all sidewalk vendors shall maintain a clean and trash-free area, including a
sanitized and neat appearing cart, within a ten foot (10') radius around the
vendor's cart during hours of operation and shall ensure that such area is
clean and trash-free before relocating or closing.
   (I)   In order to prevent damage to public property and prevent obstructions
of the public right-of-way, no cart may be chained or fastened to any pole,
sign, tree, or other object in the public right-of-way.
   (J)   In order to preserve the safety of the public, and prevent misuse of
carts, no cart may be left unattended at any time.
   (K)   In order to preserve the safety of the public, to prevent misuse of
carts, and to prevent obstructions of the public right-of-way, no cart may be
stored, parked, or left overnight on any public street or right-of-way, or in
any public park or other public property.
   (L)   In order to preserve the safety of vehicular travelers, no sidewalk
vendor may solicit business from or conduct business with persons in motor
vehicles.
   (M)   In order to preserve the safety of vehicular travelers and
pedestrians, and to preserve public peace and welfare, no cart may be outfitted
with any equipment, signage, or mechanism that endangers or detracts from the
health, safety, or welfare of the public by causing an excessive distraction to
motorists or interfering with nearby residences, business, or pedestrians,
including but not limited to, sound amplification, flashing lights, smoke,
steam, bubbles, gas-powered generators, or excessive fumes.
   (N)   In order to preserve the safety of vehicular travelers and
pedestrians, any cart operated before sunrise or after sunset, or in location
with insufficient lighting, shall be equipped with sufficient lighting or
reflectors to alert pedestrians and vehicular travelers to the presence of the
cart.
   (O)   In order to prevent obstructions of the public right-of-way, all
signage related to the vending operation shall be affixed to the cart. (Ord.
852-23, 7-18-2023)
4-22-7: LOCATION OF CARTS:
In order to ensure access to public rights-of-way by pedestrians and emergency
personnel, and avoid interference with vehicular traffic, certified farmers'
markets, swap meets, and City-permitted special events, sidewalk vendors shall
not operate in the following areas of the public right-of-way:
   (A)   Any area other than a public sidewalk or pedestrian path.
   (B)   Within fifteen feet (15') of a fire hydrant, fire call box, or other
emergency facility.
   (C)   Within ten feet (10') of an entrance to or emergency exit of any
building or business during the hours that the building or business is open to
the public.
   (D)   Within fifteen feet (15') of the outer edge of a driveway or driveway
apron.
   (E)   Within fifteen feet (15') of a transit stop.
   (F)   Adjacent to any marked loading zone or bus zone.
   (G)   Within five feet (5') of a curb return.
   (H)   Any location that would impede entering or exiting a parked vehicle.
   (I)   Any location that impedes the flow of pedestrian traffic by reducing
the clear space to less than four feet (4') or impedes access to or the use of
abutting property, including, but not limited to, residences and places of
business.
   (J)   Within one hundred feet (100') in any direction of the nearest vendor
or concessionaire participating in a certified farmers' market or swap meet
during the operating hours of the certified farmers' market or swap meet.
   (K)   Within one hundred feet (100') of a City-permitted special event,
including but not limited to, parades, concerts, and movie filmings, unless
vendor has received a permit to vend as part of the event. For moving events,
vending shall be prohibited within one hundred feet (100') of any portion of
the approved event route. For stationary events, vending shall be prohibited
within one hundred feet (100') of the parcel boundary for the location of the
event.
   (L)   Within three hundred feet (300') of any public or private school
grounds between seven o’clock (7:00) A.M. and six o’clock (6:00) P.M. on school
days, and while the same is in use, including for after-school child care,
enrichment classes and sports.
   (M)   Upon or within any roadway, median strip, or dividing section. (Ord.
852-23, 7-18-2023)
4-22-8: SPECIAL REQUIREMENTS FOR VENDING IN CITY PARKS:
No stationary sidewalk vendor may operate in a City-owned or City-operated park
if the operator of the park has signed an agreement for concessions that
exclusively permits the sale of food or merchandise by the concessionaire.
No stationary sidewalk vendor may sell or offer for sale any merchandise,
article or thing of any kind or nature, including professional services, except
in accordance with a sidewalk vending permit issued in accordance with chapter
22, as specifically authorized in writing by the city manager or designee, or
pursuant to an agreement approved by the City Council. (Ord. 852-23, 7-18-2023)
4-22-9: SPECIAL REQUIREMENTS FOR THE SALE OF FOOD:
All sidewalk vendors that prepare or sell food must be in compliance with all
county and State permitting and licensing requirements for the preparation or
sale of food. (Ord. 852-23, 7-18-2023)
4-22-10: PENALTIES:
For purposes of this section, "sidewalk vending program" refers to the
provisions of sections
4-22-6 through
4-22-9, inclusive, and the requirement to obtain a special business permit
pursuant to subsection 4-22-3(B).
   (A)   A violation of any provision in sections
4-22-6 through
4-22-9, inclusive, may only be punished by the following:
      1.   An administrative fine not exceeding one hundred dollars ($100.00)
for a first violation.
      2.   An administrative fine not exceeding two hundred dollars ($200.00)
for a second violation within one year of the first violation.
      3.   An administrative fine not exceeding five hundred dollars ($500.00)
for each additional violation within one year of the first violation.
      4.   Rescission of the sidewalk vendor's special business permit for the
term of that permit upon the fourth violation or subsequent violations.
   (B)   Vending without a special business permit may be punished by the
following:
      1.   An administrative fine not exceeding two hundred fifty dollars
($250.00) for a first violation.
      2.   An administrative fine not exceeding five hundred dollars ($500.00)
for a second violation within one year of the first violation.
      3.   An administrative fine not exceeding one thousand dollars
($1,000.00) for each additional violation within one year of the first
violation.
   Upon proof of a valid special business permit, an administrative fine
imposed under subsection (B) shall be reduced to the respective administrative
fine set forth in subsection (A).
   (C)   No other fines, fees, assessments, or financial conditions shall be
imposed for violation of the sidewalk vending program other than those imposed
by subsections (A) and (B).
   (D)   Notwithstanding any other provision of this code, neither a violation
of the sidewalk vending program as codified in sections
4-22-6 through
4-22-9, inclusive, nor a failure to pay an administrative fine, imposed by
subsections (A) or (B) shall be punishable as an infraction or misdemeanor.
   (E)   Any person who receives an administrative fine under subsections (A)
or (B) shall have the right to request an ability-to-pay determination.
      1.   The City shall give any such person written notice of his or her
right to request an ability-to-pay determination as well as instructions and
other materials for requesting an ability-to-pay determination at the time that
the administrative fine citation is issued.
      2.   A right-to-pay determination may be requested at any time following
the issuance of the administrative fine citation until the fine is paid,
including when payment of the fine is delinquent or has been referred to a
collection program.
      3.   Upon receipt of a request for an ability-to-pay determination, the
city manager or his or her designee shall determine whether such person meets
the criteria described in subdivision (a) or (b) of section 68632 of the
Government Code. The determination of the city manager or his or her designee
shall be final.
      4.   If the person meets the criteria described in subdivision (a) or (b)
of Section 68632 of the Government Code, the City shall reduce the fine to
twenty percent (20%) of the amount of the fine originally imposed.
   (F)   The city manager may, in his or her discretion, allow a person who
receives an administrative fine under subsections (A) or (B) to complete
community service in lieu of paying the total administrative fine, may waive
the administrative fine, or may offer an alternative disposition.
   (G)   Nothing in the chapter shall be construed to limit the City's ability
to enforce, or remedies for enforcing, laws of general applicability or other
provisions of this code against sidewalk vendors, or to take any other
enforcement actions against sidewalk vendors that are not prohibited by state
or federal law, or which are allowed by this code. (Ord. 852-23, 7-18-2023)
TITLE V
BUILDING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL BUILDING PROVISIONS
SECTION:
5-1-1: Purpose Of Title
5-1-2: Short Title; Scope; More Restrictive Provisions
5-1-3: Application Of Code
5-1-4: Waiver Of Exemption
5-1-5: Interpretation Of Code
5-1-6: Definitions
5-1-7: Enforcement Of Code
5-1-8: Property Access
5-1-9: Waste Management Requirements
5-1-10: Threshold Requirements
5-1-11: Waste Management Plans
5-1-12: Minimum Diversion Requirements
5-1-13: Exemption From WMP Requirements
5-1-14: WMP Reporting
5-1-15: Records; Reports; Disposition Of Fees
5-1-16: Unfinished Structures And Projects
5-1-17: Board Of Building Appeals
5-1-18: Limitation Of Responsibility
5-1-19: Violations
5-1-20: Electric Vehicle Charging Stations
5-1-1: PURPOSE OF TITLE:
The purpose of this title is to promote the public health, safety, and welfare
by the adoption of minimum building and construction standards to be required
and enforced throughout the incorporated territory of the City of Taft. The
purpose is not to create or otherwise establish or designate any particular
class or group of persons who will, or should be especially protected or
benefitted by the terms of this Code. (Ord. 696-02, 10-1-2002; amd. Ord. 840-
21, 5-4-2021)
5-1-2: SHORT TITLE; SCOPE; MORE RESTRICTIVE PROVISIONS:
   (A)   This title may be cited as the CODE OF BUILDING REGULATIONS.
   (B)   This title is partially comprised of the California Code of
Regulations, title 24, also referred to as the California Building Code adopted
by the California Building Standards Commission, Department of Housing and
Community Development of the State of California and other agencies of the
State of California, that impose substantially the same requirements as are
contained in recent editions of State and nationally recognized construction
regulations, all adopted herein by reference with necessary California
amendments and such local modifications, additions and amendments are
reasonably necessary because of local climatic, geological or topographical
conditions.
   (C)   Nothing in this Code of Building Regulations shall be interpreted as
abrogating any more restrictive requirements of title 19, California
Administrative Code, known as the regulations of the State Fire Marshal. (Ord.
742-07, 12-18-2007; amd. Ord. 826-17, 6-20-2017; Ord. 840-21, 5-4-2021)
5-1-3: APPLICATION OF CODE:
This Code of Building Regulations applies to new building construction,
including but without limitation to additions, renovations, demolition,
deconstructions, and to the installation of new mechanical, plumbing,
electrical, and energy systems; it applies to existing construction and to
existing mechanical, plumbing, electrical, and energy systems to the extent
specifically defined by the secondary codes adopted by reference into this
title.
This Code of Building Regulations shall apply to permit applications filed
after the effective date hereof.
The building official may, at the option and request of the permit holder,
authorize compliance with this Code of Building Regulations to projects filed
prior to the effective date hereof. (Ord. 696-02, 10-1-2002; amd. Ord. 840-21,
5-4-2021)
5-1-4: WAIVER OF EXEMPTION:
An owner or person proposing to construct a building or structure exempt from
the provisions of this chapter may elect to waive exemption and may submit an
application for permit or permits to construct a building or structure
otherwise exempt from the requirements of this chapter. If the permit or
permits are issued and construction is undertaken thereunder, the exemption is
waived, and this code of building regulations thereafter apply to the
construction. (Ord. 696-02, 10-1-2002; amd. Ord. 840-21, 5-4-2021)
5-1-5: INTERPRETATION OF CODE:
This code of building regulations shall be liberally construed to effect its
purpose. If the code regulates one or more applications with dissimilar
limitations or requirements, the more restrictive shall apply. (Ord. 696-02,
10-1-2002; amd. Ord. 840-21, 5-4-2021)
5-1-6: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this code of building regulations, certain terms used herein
or in the adopted codes, shall have the meanings given in this section, except
as expressly provided otherwise in this code of building regulations.
               A "code", as defined by subdivision (a) of California Government Code section
               50022.1, including, for example, without limiting the generality of the
ADOPTED CODE:  foregoing, title 24 of the California Administrative Code (also known as the
               California Building Standards Code) or any of the so called "international and/or
               uniform codes", or other standards as adopted by reference by this title.
BOARD OF       The Board of Building Appeals as established by the Taft City Council upon the
APPEALS:       filing of an appeal.
BUILDING
DEPARTMENT AND The Building Department of the City of Taft.
DEPARTMENT:
BUILDING
OFFICIAL,
ADMINISTRATIVE
AUTHORITY,     The officer or other designated authority charged with the administration and
PLUMBING       enforcement of this code, or the building official's duly authorized
OFFICIAL, AND  representative of the City of Taft.
CHIEF
ELECTRICAL
INSPECTOR:
CITY, CITY     The City of Taft, the City Clerk of the City of Taft, and the City Council of the
CLERK, AND     City of Taft, respectively.
CITY COUNCIL:
               The act of building, making, erecting, remodeling, repairing, renovating, or
CONSTRUCTION:  improving a "structure," as that term is defined in the California Building Code
               and includes any project for which the city requires a building permit.
DEMOLITION:    The act of removing, razing, or tearing down a structure or any portion of a
               structure.
FIRE CHIEF:    The Chief of the Kern County Fire Department.
ORDINANCE:     The Municipal Code of the City of Taft.
               Shall mean and include any material which is any of the following:
               1.   Masonry building materials and similar products generally used in
               construction including, but not limited to, asphalt, concrete, rock, stone and
               brick.
               2.   Wood materials including all dimensional lumber, fencing, or construction
               wood that has not been chemically treated, creosoted, Chromated Copper Arsenate
               (CCA)-pressure treated, contaminated or painted.
               3.   Plant and land clearing debris including trees, tree parts, shrubs, stumps,
RECYCLABLE AND logs, brush, soil or any other type of plant or green waste that is cleared from
REUSABLE       a site for construction or other purpose.
MATERIAL:      4.   Metals, including all metal scrap such as, but not limited to, pipes,
               siding, window frames, doorframes, and fences.
               5.   Roofing materials, including wood shingles, asphalt, stone, tile and slate-
               based roofing materials.
               6.   Other salvageable materials including, but not limited to, wallboard, doors,
               windows, fixtures, toilets, sinks, bath tubs, and appliances.
               7.   Any other construction or demolition debris that is non-hazardous and
               available for recycling or reuse, as identified on the approved building plans
               issued by the City.
               A person or company who hauls construction or demolition debris from a site under
               the following conditions:
               1.   The construction or demolition debris was generated at the site from which
SELF-HAULER:   it is being collected, and;
               2.   The construction or demolition debris is hauled by the owner of the property
               at which the construction and demolition debris was generated, or by the company
               that generated the construction and demolition debris.
               Documentation and forms submitted with a building or demolition permit
WASTE          application identifying the anticipated and actual construction or demolition
MANAGEMENT     waste was hauled to and diverted from local landfills, and as further defined in
PLAN (WMP):    section
               5-1-10.
               Electronic devices, electronic lamps, batteries, mercury containing equipment,
UNIVERSAL      cathode-ray tubes (CRTs - glass picture tubes removed from items such as
WASTE:         televisions and computer monitors), CRT glass and non-empty aerosol cans. (Ord.
               696-02, 10-1-2002; amd. Ord. 742-07, 12-18-2007; amd. Ord. 840-21, 5-4-2021)
 
5-1-7: ENFORCEMENT OF CODE:
   (A)   Enforcement: The building official is hereby authorized and directed
to enforce this code of building regulations and all its provisions. The
building official may appoint deputies and otherwise delegate the authority
herein provided, and for such purposes, he shall have the powers of a law
enforcement officer.
   Pursuant to the provisions of the California Penal Code, section 836.5, the
building official and his duly appointed deputies, any employee of the City of
Taft holding the position of building official/compliance officer, may enforce
the provisions of this title and chapter 2, part 3, division 13 of the
California Health and Safety Code (sections 19100 et seq.), and may arrest a
person without a warrant whenever that employee has reasonable cause to believe
that the person to be arrested has committed a misdemeanor in his presence,
which is a violation of any law which he has the duty to enforce.
   An employee making an arrest under the authority of this section shall
follow the citation-release procedures prescribed in chapter 5C, title 3, part
2 of the California Penal Code (sections 853.5 et seq.) or such procedures
hereafter enacted by the state of California.
      1.   The building official shall have the power to render interpretations
of this code, and to adopt and enforce rules and regulations supplemental to
this code as the building official may deem necessary in order to clarify the
applications of the provisions of this code. Such interpretations, rules, and
regulations shall be in conformity with the intent and purpose of this code.
(Ord. 696-02, 10-1-2002; amd. Ord. 840-21, 5-4-2021)
5-1-8: PROPERTY ACCESS:
   (A)   Requirements: Each parcel on which a structure is to be constructed or
a mobile-home placed shall be connected by means of an approved access road or
roads to a public street which is maintained by the City or other public entity
or government agency.
   (B)   Approved Access: Approved access shall be over permanent recorded
public easements granted for ingress and egress; however, the building official
may consider permanent recorded private easements, if appurtenant and in
satisfactory form, as approved access under the following circumstances:
      1.   For properties having permanent recorded private easement access
rights appurtenant prior to August 13, 1981.
      2.   Notwithstanding the foregoing, public access shall be required for
any parcel created by a recorded map having thereon a statement to the
substantial effect that building permits would not be issued until the parcel
had rights of public access.
   (C)   Other Code Requirements: Approved access easements shall comply with
all other requirements of this code.
   (D)   Variance: Upon public hearing held after twenty (20) days' notice to
all persons having any recorded interest in any parcel of real property
traversed by or abutting the proposed access route, the city council may issue
a variance determining that a temporary recorded appurtenant license will
constitute approved access under the following circumstances:
      1.   The proposed structures or mobilehomes are necessary and accessory
to a legal and properly permitted existing main use of the legally created
parcel on which they are to be built or placed.
      2.   The applicant has exhausted all reasonable means for securing a
permanent access right to the parcel on which the structures or mobilehomes are
to be placed.
      3.   The structures or mobilehomes are to be removed if the temporary
access rights terminate. (Ord. 696-02, 10-1-2002; amd. Ord. 840-21, 5-4-2021)
5-1-9: WASTE MANAGEMENT REQUIREMENTS:
   (A)   Applicability: All construction, demolition, addition, alteration, and
remodel projects within the city boundary, which require a building,
demolition, or similar permit, and which are not otherwise excluded by section
5-1-7 or subsection (C) of this section.
   All city-sponsored construction and demolition projects are subject to these
provisions, unless exempted. The City may exempt any city-sponsored project,
including any project of a redevelopment agency or housing authority, from the
requirements of this title. Nevertheless, the City may require alternative
diversion requirements for any city-sponsored project that has otherwise been
exempted from the requirements of this title.
   (B)   Application Requirements: A contractor, architect, engineer, or other
person issued a permit for construction shall complete a Waste Management Plan
(WMP) to address the expected project waste materials.
   (C)   Waste Management Plan Compliance: All permitted projects shall, at a
minimum, divert the amount of construction and demolition debris mandated by
section
5-1-9 or the approved WMP from landfills. Demolition followed by construction
on the same site which requires separate permits shall be considered two (2)
separate projects. Otherwise, concurrent permits at the same site are
considered one project for the purposes of this title. (Ord. 840-21, 5-4-2021)
5-1-10: THRESHOLD REQUIREMENTS:
If a project meets any of the following thresholds, it is a Covered Project and
must meet all requirements for Covered Project set forth in this title.
   (A)   Covered Projects: All Covered Projects are subject to the waste
diversion requirement set forth in this chapter and require the submittal of a
Waste Management Plan prior to permit issuance.
      1.   All permitted demolition projects are considered Covered Projects,
including the demolition portion of a remodeling project, additions,
alterations, repairs, and tenant improvements.
      2.   All new permitted construction of buildings and structures are
considered Covered Projects.
      3.   Failure to comply with any of the terms of this article shall
subject the permit applicant, or any party obligated to obtain a permit but
failed to do so, to penalties described in this chapter.
   (B)   Non-Covered Projects: All other projects, construction, additions,
alterations, repair and remodel, and tenant improvement projects that are below
the thresholds for Covered Projects listed above.
      1.   Some permitted projects are identified as Exemptions from WMP
Requirements in section
5-1-13.
      2.   All other projects shall employ best management practices and
encourage the diversion of fifty percent (50%) of all project related
construction and demolition waste from local landfills. (Ord. 840-21, 5-4-2021;
amd. Ord. 851-23, 1-17-2023)
5-1-11: WASTE MANAGEMENT PLANS:
   (A)   Except as otherwise specified in this chapter, each building or
demolition permit applicant for a Covered Project shall submit a Waste
Management Plan (WMP) on a form provided by the City concurrent with a building
or demolition permit application. No permit of exemption shall be issued for a
Covered Project without an approved WMP by the Director of Public Works or
their designee.
   (B)   A complete WMP shall contain the following information:
      1.   Identifies the local diversion facility where construction and
demolition waste material collected will be taken.
      2.   Determines if construction and demolition waste materials will be
sorted; source-separated on-site or in a bulk mixed, single stream manner.
      3.   Identifies the construction and demolition waste materials to be
diverted from disposal by efficient usage, recycling, reuse on the project or
salvage for future use or sale.
      4.   Calculate the amount of construction and demolition waste materials
diverted by weight or volume, but not by both.
      5.   Estimated weight or volume may be used at time of permit application
as actual amounts are not known at that time.
      6.   If the applicant determines during the construction process that the
projected feasible diversion rate will not meet the diversion goal in the WMP,
the applicant shall submit additional information to the City that supports the
request for approval of a lower diversion rate.
      7.   The applicant shall identify the Self-Hauler for the project.
Otherwise, the applicant shall provide documentation and identify the
construction and demolition waste that will be collected by the local franchise
hauler.
   (C)   WMP Review And Approval: A building or demolition permit shall not be
issued for any Covered Project unless and until the Director of Public Works
("Director") or their designee has approved the WMP. The WMP review and
approval shall be as follows:
      1.   The Director may review the WMP and issue a "Further Explanation
Needed" with a statement of the incomplete information needed, or if the WMP
fails to indicate how the minimum diversion requirement will be met, or how the
alternative approved diversion goal will be met.
      2.   The Director may issue a "Disapproved" statement with reasons for
disapproval, including a hold on further permit processing.
      3.   The Director may approve the WMP if it is deemed complete and all of
the information required by this section is provided.
      4.   The Director may approve the WMP if the Further Explanation Needed
information is provided that address the minimum diversion requirements of all
construction and demolition waste generated by the by the Covered Project will
be diverted, or that an alternate diversion goal has been approved. (Ord. 840-
21, 5-4-2021)
5-1-12: MINIMUM DIVERSION REQUIREMENTS:
   (A)   All Covered Projects shall reuse, recycle, or divert from landfills or
disposal sites at least sixty-five percent (65%), or per current CalGreen and
California Building Code requirements, of all construction and demolition waste
unless a lower rate is approved by the City as a part of the project's WMP.
Newly constructed non-residential buildings shall reuse and/or recycle one-
hundred percent (100%) of plant and land clearing debris including trees,
stumps, rocks and associated vegetation and soils resulting from land clearing.
Non-residential addition and alteration projects shall divert universal waste
from landfilling.
   (B)   Diversion may be satisfied by any of the following methods:
      1.   Documented on-site reuse of the construction and demolition waste.
      2.   Documented delivery of construction and demolition waste to a
Material Recovery Facility (MRF), and/or a source separated recycling facility.
      3.   Other methods approved by the City, as set forth on the approved
plans issued by the City. (Ord. 840-21, 5-4-2021)
5-1-13: EXEMPTION FROM WMP REQUIREMENTS:
   (A)   A WMP shall not be required for any of the following types of
projects:
      1.   Projects and construction activity that only requires a plumbing,
electrical, or mechanical permit.
      2.   A seismic tie-down project.
      3.   The installation of new fencing, but not replacement of existing
fencing.
      4.   The installation of pre-fabricated patio enclosures and covers when
no foundation or other structural building modifications are required.
      5.   The installation of pre-fabricated accessory structures such as
signs or antennas which do not require structural building modifications.
      6.   City-sponsored projects that have been specifically exempted from
the City.
      7.   Emergency demolition which are necessary to protect the public
health and safety.
      8.   Projects, as determined by the Director of Public Works or his or
her designee, not generating construction or demolition waste.
   (B)   Appeal Of Diversion Requirements: An applicant may appeal to the City
Manager of a decision of the Director of Public Works decision to deny an
exemption. Notice of appeal of the Director of Public Works decision must be
filed with the City Manager's office within ten (10) calendar days of the date
of the decision being appealed. The notice of appeal shall set forth in concise
language the particular decision or decisions complained of and the reason why
the person feels aggrieved thereby. Failure to file a notice of appeal within
the time prescribed herein constitutes a waiver of any objection to the
decision(s) of the Director of Public Works and such decision(s) shall be
final; otherwise, the decision of the City Manager is final. (Ord. 840-21, 5-4-
2021)
5-1-14: WMP REPORTING:
   (A)   Within sixty (60) days following the completion of a Covered Project,
the applicant shall submit to the Director of Public Works documentation of its
compliance with this chapter and/or the applicable WMP. Necessary documentation
shall include:
      1.   A completed "Construction and Demolition Waste Recycling and
Disposal Report Summary", which lists the tonnage of materials removed,
recycled, and diverted.
      2.   The Summary shall include receipts, weight tags, or other records of
measurement from recycling companies, contractors, and/or landfill and disposal
companies.
   (B)   If a project involves both demolition and construction, and the
applicant has not met the diversion requirement for demolition, the Director of
Public Works or their designee may, in addition to other remedies set forth in
this chapter:
      1.   Require a higher percentage of diversion for construction than the
amount identified in the approved WMP.
      2.   The higher percentage shall be no higher than the shortfall in the
diversion from demolition waste.
      3.   The applicant may submit a letter, signed under penalty of perjury,
stating that no designated recyclable or reusable materials were generated from
the demolition project.
      4.   The applicant's statement shall be verified by the Director of
Public Works or their designee. (Ord. 840-21, 5-4-2021)
5-1-15: RECORDS; REPORTS; DISPOSITION OF FEES:
The building official shall cause to be made and filed a permanent record of
each transaction of the building department covered by this code of building
regulations.
   (A)   Where the permittee desires occupancy or utilities energized before
the final inspection can be completed, and the building official determines
that all fire protection systems are operational and no unreasonable hazard to
life or property exists, he may deposit with the building official security in
the amount of the building official's estimate of the cost of completion of the
work and the department's overhead costs involved in processing and
administration. The term "security" as used in this section means one or more
of the following:
      1.   A bond by one or more duly authorized corporate sureties; or
      2.   A cash deposit made with the City; or
      3.   An instrument of credit from one or more financial institutions
subject to regulation by the state or federal government pledging that the
funds necessary to meet the performance are on deposit and guaranteed for
payment and agreeing that the funds designated by the instrument shall become
trust funds for the purposes set forth in the instrument; or
      4.   Negotiable U.S. treasury certificates of a kind approved by law for
security deposits of public money.
      The security sum is to be refunded to the permittee upon completion, and
may be released to the depositor in two (2) payments during the progress of the
work if the deposit exceeds one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) and the same ratio
of security is maintained on deposit for all uncompleted work. Such special
permit shall be granted for a specific time period mutually agreed upon, after
which if the project remains uncompleted, the building official may declare the
permit void, forfeit and utilize the security deposit to gain compliance under
provisions of this title. (Ord. 696-02, 10-1-2002; amd. Ord. 840-21, 5-4-2021)
5-1-16: UNFINISHED STRUCTURES AND PROJECTS:
Where a structure or project remains unfinished after the permit therefor has
been revoked or canceled, the owner shall, within sixty (60) days after written
notice by the building official, demolish and remove the same, or obtain a new
permit and diligently pursue the work to completion according to its terms
within one hundred eighty (180) days. (Ord. 696-02, 10-1-2002; amd. Ord. 840-
21, 5-4-2021)
5-1-17: BOARD OF BUILDING APPEALS:
   (A)   The board of building appeals is established by the city council of
the city of Taft within fifteen (15) days of the filing of a notice of appeal.
Such constituted board shall be the board of building appeals for all matters
dealing with said appeal. Upon receipt of a notice of appeal, the city council
shall appoint a five (5) member board who shall be qualified persons to pass
upon matters pertaining to building construction and who are not employees of
the city. The building official shall be an ex officio member of, and shall act
as secretary to, said board.
   (B)   The board of building appeals shall hear any appeal from a decision of
the building official relating to interpretation of this code. The board of
appeals shall have no authority relative to interpretations of the
administrative provisions of this code nor shall the board be empowered to
waive requirements of this code.
   Said board shall adopt rules of procedure, make written findings, and render
a written decision on each appeal which it hears; and shall use copies of same
to be furnished to the appellant, to the building official and to any person
requesting it. (Ord. 696-02, 10-1-2002; amd. Ord. 840-21, 5-4-2021)
5-1-18: LIMITATION OF RESPONSIBILITY:
   (A)   Neither an approval nor a permit granted by the building department or
other city department shall constitute permission or authority for, or be
interpreted as a waiver of violation of any statute, ordinance, or regulation.
   (B)   Neither the city nor its officers or employees shall be liable for
structural or construction defects through the administration or enforcement of
this code of building regulations.
   (C)   By accepting a permit for the performance of services by the building
department, an applicant consents to the limitations of this section. (Ord.
696-02, 10-1-2002; amd. Ord. 840-21, 5-4-2021)
5-1-19: VIOLATIONS:
   (A)   Any person who violates or causes, permits, or allows the violation of
any provision of this code of building regulations (including codes which have
been adopted by reference) shall be subject to an administrative citation per
chapter 3 of title 1 of the Taft Municipal Code.
   (B)   Any structure, construction, or installation that is undertaken or
permitted to continue in violation of any provision of this code of building
regulations is a public nuisance and may be abated by the building official.
(Ord. 696-02, 10-1-2002; amd. Ord. 840-21, 5-4-2021)
5-1-20: ELECTRIC VEHICLE CHARGING STATIONS:
   (A)   Purpose and Intent: The purpose of this section is to establish and
implement an expedited and streamlined permit review process for electric
vehicle charging stations; ensuring the public health and safety while avoiding
potential adverse impacts from the installation of said charging stations. This
section is also purposed to comply with California Government Code Section
65850.7.
   (B)   Authority: The authority for the review and approval of permits for
the installation of electric vehicle charging stations shall be vested with the
building official, or their designee.
   (C)   Application: A building permit application for the installation of an
electric vehicle charging station shall be filed with the building department
in a manner prescribed by the building official. The provisions of this section
shall apply to all new charging stations in the City. Electric vehicle charging
systems legally established or permitted prior to the effective date of this
section shall not be subject to the provisions of this section, unless physical
modifications or alterations are proposed that would materially change the
size, type, or components of the station that would require new permitting.
   (D)   Definitions:
 
                                       The utilization of one or more of either
                                       electronic mail, the internet, or
ELECTRONIC SUBMITTAL:                  facsimile submittal of a building permit
                                       application and supporting
                                       documentation.
                                       Any level of electric vehicle supply
                                       equipment station that is designed and
                                       installed in compliance with Article 625
ELECTRONIC VEHICLE CHARGING STATION or of the California Electric Code, as it
CHARGING STATION:                      reads on the effective date of this
                                       section, and delivers electricity from a
                                       source outside an electric vehicle into
                                       a plug-in electric vehicle.
                                       The inclusion of, but not limited to,
FEASIBLE METHOD TO SATISFACTORILY      any cost-effective method, condition, or
MITIGATE OR AVOID A SPECIFIC ADVERSE   mitigation imposed by the City on
IMPACT:                                another similarly situated application
                                       in a prior successful application for
                                       permit.
                                       A significant, quantifiable, direct, and
                                       unavoidable impact, based on objective,
SPECIFIC ADVERSE IMPACT:               identified, and written public health or
                                       safety standards, policies, or
                                       conditions as they existed for the date
                                       the application was deemed complete.
 
   (E)   Expedited Permitting Process: Consistent with Government Code Section
65850.7, the building official shall implement an expedited and streamlined
permitting process for electric vehicle charging stations, and adopt a
checklist of all requirements with which electric vehicle charging stations
shall comply with in order to be eligible for expedited review. The expedited,
streamlined permitting process and checklist may refer to the recommendations
contained in the most current version of the “Plug-In Electric Vehicle
Infrastructure Permitting Checklist” of the “Zero-Emission Vehicles in
California: Community Readiness Guidebook” as published by the Governor’s
Office of Planning and Research. The City’s adopted checklist shall be
published on the City’s website.
   (F)   Permit Application Processing:
      1.   Prior to submitting an application for processing, the applicant
shall verify that the installation of an electric vehicle charging station will
not have specific, adverse impact to public health and safety and building
occupants. Verification by the applicant includes, but is not limited to,
electrical system capacity and loads; electrical system wiring, bonding and
overcurrent protection; building infrastructure affected by charging station
equipment and associated conduits; areas of charging station equipment and
vehicle parking.
      2.   A permit application that satisfies the information requirements in
the City’s adopted checklist shall be deemed complete and be promptly
processed. Upon confirmation by the building official that the permit
application and supporting documents meets the requirements of the City adopted
checklist, and is consistent with all applicable laws and health and safety
standards, the Building Official shall, consistent with Government Code Section
65850.7, approve the application and issue a permit. Such approval does not
authorize an applicant to energize or utilize the electric vehicle charging
station until approval is granted by the City. If the building official
determines that the permit application is incomplete, a written correction
notice shall be issued to the applicant, detailing all deficiencies in the
application and any additional information required to be eligible for
expedited permit issuance.
      3.   Consistent with Government Code Section 65850.7, the building
official shall allow for electronic submittal of permit applications covered by
this section and associated supporting documentations. The building official
shall also accept electronic signatures on all forms, applications, and other
documentation in lieu of a wet signature by any applicant.
      4.   An application to install an electric vehicle charging station shall
be deemed complete after the applicable time period has elapsed:
         (a)   Five (5) business days after submission of the application, if
the application is for at least one (1), but not more than twenty-five (25)
electric vehicle charging stations at a single site.
         (b)   Ten (10) business days after submission of the application, if
the application is for more than twenty-five (25) electric vehicle charging
stations at a single site.
   (G)   Technical Review:
      1.   It is the intent of this Ordinance to encourage the installation of
electric vehicle charging stations by removing obstacles to permitting for
charging stations so long as the action does not supersede the building
official’s authority to address higher priority life-safety situations. If the
building official makes a finding based on substantial evidence that the
electric vehicle charging station could have a specific adverse impact upon the
public health or safety, as defined in this section, the City may require the
applicant to apply for a use permit.
      2.   In the technical review of a charging station, consistent with
Government Code Section 65850.7, the building official shall not condition the
approval for any electric vehicle charging station permit on the approval of
such a system by an association, as that term is defined by Civil Code Section
4080.
      3.   An application to install an electric vehicle charging station shall
be deemed approved if the applicable time period described in subsection F.4
has elapsed and if:
         (a)   If the building official has not administratively approved the
application pursuant to Government Code section 65850.7(b); and
         (b)   The building official has not made a finding, based on
substantial evidence, that the electric vehicle charging station could have an
adverse effect upon the public health or safety, or required the applicant to
apply for a use permit pursuant to Government Code section 65850.7(b); and
         (c)   The building official has not denied the permit pursuant to
Government Code section 65850.7(c); and
         (d)   An appeal has not been filed to the planning commission pursuant
to Government Code section 65850.7(d).
   (H)   Electric Vehicle Charging Station Installation Requirements
      1.   Electric vehicle charging station equipment shall meet the
requirements of the California Electrical Code, the Society of Automotive
Engineers, the National Electrical Manufacturers Association, and accredited
testing laboratories such as Underwriters Laboratories, and rules of the Public
Utilities Commission or a Municipal Electric Utility Company regarding safety
and reliability.
      2.   Installation of electric vehicle charging stations and associated
wiring, bonding, disconnecting means and overcurrent protective devices shall
meet the requirements of Article 625 and all applicable provisions of the
California Electrical Code.
      3.   Installation of electric vehicle charging stations shall be
incorporated into the load calculations of all new or existing electrical
services and shall meet the requirements of the California Electrical Code.
Electric vehicle charging equipment shall be considered a continuous load.
      4.   Anchorage of either floor-mounted or wall-mounted electric vehicle
charging stations shall meet the requirements of the California Building or
Residential Code as applicable per occupancy, and the provisions of the
manufacturer’s installation instructions. Mounting of charging stations shall
not adversely affect building elements. (Ord. 848-22, 11-15-2022)
CHAPTER 2
BUILDING CODE
SECTION:
5-2-1: Short Title
5-2-2: Application Of Code
5-2-3: Adoption Of Code
5-2-1: SHORT TITLE:
This chapter may be cited as the TAFT BUILDING CODE. (Ord. 696-02, 10-1-2002)
5-2-2: APPLICATION OF CODE:
The Taft Building Code shall apply to the construction, erection, enlargement,
alteration, repair, moving, improvement, removing, conversion, demolition, land
use and occupancy of every building and structure in the incorporated territory
of the City of Taft, excepting those exempted therefrom. (Ord. 696-02, 10-1-
2002)
5-2-3: ADOPTION OF CODE:
These regulations known as the "California Building Code," 2022 Edition,
California Code of Regulations, Title 24, Part 2, Volumes 1 and 2, which
incorporate by adoption the 2021 International Building Code, with necessary
California amendments, including all appendices, as published by the
International Code Council, is hereby adopted and made part of this Chapter by
reference with the same force and effect as if fully set forth herein, except
such provisions as are hereinafter added, deleted or amended as follows:
Section 105.2(3) of the California Building Code is amended to read:
105.2(3). Accepted oilfield activities, except where construction is part of a
cogeneration facility, as follows:
a.   Tanks which meet API or AWWA standards and are supported directly upon
grade (grade being the final ground surface elevation of the site prior to
installation of the tank) with associated foundations if the ratio of height to
diameter or width in the shortest direction does not exceed two to one. This
also includes the associated equipment such as piping, walkways, stairs,
guardrails, handrails and ladders which are covered by the Occupational Safety
and Health Administration (OSHA).
b.   Processing equipment and pressure vessels which meet API, ASME or ANSI
standards and are supported directly upon grade (grade being the final ground
surface elevation of the site prior to installation of the equipment or vessel)
with associated foundations if the ratio of height to diameter or width in the
shortest direction does not exceed one-half to one. This also includes the
associated equipment such as piping, walkways, stairs, guardrails, handrails
and ladders which are covered by OSHA.
c.   Miscellaneous equipment which meets API, ASME or AMSI standards and is
mounted on skids or supported on flanges. Placement of this equipment on an at-
grade concrete slab or similar foundation, without attaching it for structural
support to the same is considered part of the exempted activity.
d.   Flatwork or non-supporting concrete slabs.
e.   One-story detached accessory buildings which do not contain a work station
and are used as storage sheds, typically unattended control or electrical
enclosures or gauging sheds, provided the floor area does not exceed 120 square
feet.
f.   Oil derricks, artificial lift equipment and associated foundations.
g.   Pipe racks and associated foundations, if the structure height does not
exceed 8 feet (2438mm).
h.   Process piping.
i.   Oilfield containment walls not over four feet (1219mm) in height measured
from the bottom of the footing to the top of the wall.
Section 109.4 of the California Building Code is amended to read:
109.4 Work commencing before permit issuance. Where work for which a permit is
required by this code is started or proceeded with prior to obtaining said
permit, the fees specified by the Building Official shall be doubled, but the
payment of such double fee shall not relieve any persons from fully complying
with the requirements of this code in the execution of the work nor from any
other penalties prescribed herein.
Section 1804.5 of the California Building Code is amended to read as:
1804.5 Grading. In flood hazard areas established in chapter 12, Title 5 of the
Taft Municipal Code, grading and/or fill shall not be approved:
(Exceptions unchanged)
(Ord. 826-17, 6-20-2017; amd. Ord. 834-20, 1-20-2020; Ord. 851-23, 1-17-2023)
CHAPTER 3
MECHANICAL CODE
SECTION:
5-3-1: Short Title
5-3-2: Application Of Code
5-3-3: Adoption Of Code
5-3-1: SHORT TITLE:
This chapter may be cited as the TAFT MECHANICAL CODE. (Ord. 696-02, 10-1-2002)
5-3-2: APPLICATION OF CODE:
The Taft Mechanical Code shall apply to new construction, relocated buildings
and to any alterations, repairs or reconstruction of buildings in the
incorporated territory of the City of Taft. (Ord. 696-02, 10-1-2002)
5-3-3: ADOPTION OF CODE:
These regulations known as the "California Mechanical Code," 2022 Edition,
California Code of Regulations, Title 24, Part 4, which incorporate by adoption
the 2021 Uniform Mechanical Code, with necessary California amendments,
including all appendices, as published by the International Association of
Plumbing and Mechanical Officials, is hereby adopted and made part of this
Chapter by reference with the same force and effect as if fully set forth
herein. (Ord. 826-17, 6-20-2017; amd. Ord. 834-20, 1-20-2020; Ord. 851-23, 1-
17-2023)
CHAPTER 4
HOUSING CODE
SECTION:
5-4-1: Short Title
5-4-2: Provisions Adopted
5-4-3: Provisions Not Adopted
5-4-4: Amendments
5-4-1: SHORT TITLE:
This chapter may be cited as the TAFT HOUSING CODE. (Ord. 696-02, 10-1-2002)
5-4-2: PROVISIONS ADOPTED:
That portion of the uniform housing code, 1997 edition (with appendices and
standards adopted and copyrighted by the International Conference of Building
Officials), as modified and amended by this chapter, is adopted by this
reference into the Taft city code. To facilitate ease of use by industry and
building officials, amendments, additions and modifications are made by
reference to the appropriate section of the uniform housing code. (Ord. 745-07,
12-18-2007)
5-4-3: PROVISIONS NOT ADOPTED:
The following provisions of the uniform housing code, 1997 edition, are not
adopted as part of the Taft housing code and shall not apply thereto:
Section 203 Housing Advisory And Appeals Board;
Section 302 Fees;
Section 303 Inspection.
(Ord. 745-07, 12-18-2007)
5-4-4: AMENDMENTS:
The following sections of the uniform housing code are amended as follows:
Section 301.
In cases of erection, construction, enlargement, alteration, repair, moving,
improvement, conversion, or demolition of any building or structure for
purposes of conforming with this code, a permit shall be obtained therefore,
and it shall be carried out and completed and shall be subject to inspection
and approval, all in accordance with the Taft city code.
Section 401 of the uniform housing code is amended by changing or adding
certain definitions as follows:
A. Definitions added:
Public official shall mean any official or department referenced in Taft city
code section
5-1-6, or a designated representative.
B. Definitions amended:
"Building code" shall mean the Taft building code.
"Health officer" shall mean any official or department referenced in Taft city
code section
5-1-6, or a designated representative.
"Mechanical code" shall mean the Taft mechanical code, as adopted by the code
of building regulations.
Section 1001 amended - Substandard Buildings.
Section 1001.1 of the uniform housing code is amended in conformity with
section 17920.3 of the Health and Safety Code by adding a paragraph to read as
follows:
A condition which would require displacement of sound walls or ceilings to meet
height, length, or width requirements for ceilings, rooms, and dwelling units
shall not by itself be considered sufficient existence of dangerous conditions
making a building a substandard building, unless the building was constructed,
altered, or converted in violation of such requirements in effect at the time
of construction, alteration, or conversion.
Section 1001.5 of the uniform housing code is amended in conformity with
section 17920.3 of the Health and Safety Code to read as follows:
1001.5 Hazardous Wiring. All wiring, except that which conformed with all
applicable laws in effect at the time of installation if it is currently in
good and safe condition and working properly.
Section 1001.6 of the uniform housing code is amended in conformity with
section 17920.3 of the Health and Safety Code to read as follows:
1001.6 Hazardous Plumbing. All plumbing, except that which conformed with all
applicable laws in effect at the time of installation and which has been
maintained in good condition, or which may not have conformed with all
applicable laws in effect at the time of installation but is currently in good
and safe condition and working properly, and which is free of cross connections
and siphonage between fixtures.
Section 1001.7 of the uniform housing code is amended in conformity with
section 17920.3 of the Health and Safety Code to read as follows:
1001.7 Hazardous Mechanical Equipment. All mechanical equipment, including
vents, except that which conformed with all applicable laws in effect at the
time of installation and which has been maintained in good and safe condition,
or which may not have conformed with all applicable laws in effect at the time
of installation but is currently in good and safe condition and working
properly.
Section 1001.15 is added to the uniform housing code in conformity with section
17920.3 of the Health and Safety Code to read as follows:
1001.15 Earthquake And Wind Hazards. Inadequate structural resistance to
horizontal forces.
Section 1201.1 Form Of Appeal. Paragraph 1 of section 1201.1 of the uniform
housing code is amended to read as follows:
      1.   A heading in the words: "Before the public official".
(Ord. 745-07, 12-18-2007)
CHAPTER 5
DANGEROUS BUILDINGS CODE
SECTION:
5-5-1: Short Title
5-5-2: Adoption Of Code
5-5-1: SHORT TITLE:
This chapter may be cited as the TAFT DANGEROUS BUILDINGS CODE. (Ord. 696-02,
10-1-2002)
5-5-2: ADOPTION OF CODE:
That Code known as the 1997 Uniform Code for the Abatement of Dangerous
Buildings, which is promulgated and published by the International Council of
Building Officials, is hereby adopted by reference and made part hereof as if
fully set forth herein. (Ord. 826-17, 6-20-2017)
CHAPTER 6
PLUMBING CODE
SECTION:
5-6-1: Short Title
5-6-2: Application Of Code
5-6-3: Provisions Adopted
5-6-1: SHORT TITLE:
This chapter may be cited as the TAFT PLUMBING CODE. (Ord. 696-02, 10-1-2002)
5-6-2: APPLICATION OF CODE:
The Taft Plumbing Code shall apply to new construction, relocated buildings and
to any alterations, repairs or reconstruction of buildings in the incorporated
territory of the City of Taft. (Ord. 696-02, 10-1-2002)
5-6-3: PROVISIONS ADOPTED:
These regulations known as the “California Plumbing Code,” 2022 Edition,
California Code of Regulations, Title 24, Part 5, which incorporate by adoption
the 2021 Uniform Plumbing Code, with necessary California amendments, including
all appendices, as published by the International Association of Plumbing and
Mechanical Officials, 4755 E. Philadelphia St. Ontario, CA 91761, is hereby
adopted and made part of this Chapter by reference with the same force and
effect as if fully set forth herein.
Section 423 of the California Plumbing Code is added to read as:
423 Recreational Vehicle Sanitation Stations. Recreational vehicle sanitation
stations shall comply with this sections 423.1 through 423.6.
423.1 Where required. Where a trailer sanitation station is installed to
receive the discharge from sewage holding tanks of self-contained vehicles, it
shall comply with the requirements of this section.
423.2 Use. Recreational sanitation stations shall be used only for receiving
discharge from sewage holding tanks of self-contained vehicles.
423.3 Specifications.
a.   Each recreational sanitation station shall be provided with a drain inlet
not less than four (4) inches in diameter, discharging into a trap not more
than twenty-four (24) inches below the drain inlet. The drain inlet shall be
equipped with a hinged cover which shall effectively close the drain inlet when
not in use.
b.   Each drain inlet shall discharge into a drainage lateral not less than
four (4) inches in diameter connected to a public sewer or an approved private
sewage disposal system.
c.   The drain inlet of each station shall be set in a concrete drain receptor
not less than three and one-half (31/2) inches in thickness and not less than
two (2) feet horizontally from the drain inlet to the inside of the surrounding
curb. The surrounding curb shall be at least four (4) inches wide and two (2)
inches above the floor of the receptor. The inside surface of the drain
receptor shall be smooth finished concrete and shall slope a minimum of one-
fourth (1/4) inch per foot from the bottom of the curb to the lip of the drain
inlet.
423.4 Flushing. Water under pressure shall be provided to each recreational
sanitation station. A three-fourths (3/4) inch water hose connection shall be
installed at each recreational sanitation station to allow connection of a hose
for wash-down operation. An approved backflow preventer shall be installed in
the water service pipe. Provisions shall be made to store the wash-down hose
off the ground.
423.5 Warning Sign. A warning sign shall be located immediately adjacent to the
hose connection and shall read: “DANGER UNSAFE WATER. Use this hose to flush
holding tank and drain receptor ONLY.” The warning sign shall not be less than
eighteen (18) inches by twenty-four (24) inches and lettered in minimum size of
not less than one (1) inch lettering in a color contrasting with the
background.
423.6 Operating instruction. A sign providing operating instructions shall be
posted at each recreational sanitation station.
Appendix Chapter M added as part of the 2016 California Plumbing Code is hereby
moved as an amendment to Section 813 to read as:
813.0 Swimming Pools
813.2 Swimming pool wastewater shall be disposed of as hereinafter set forth in
this section and the type of disposal proposed shall be approved by the
administrative authority prior to the commencement of any work. A means of
disposal of the total contents of the pool (periodic emptying) without surface
runoff shall be established to the satisfaction of the administrative
authority.
813.3 Except as provided in section 813.4, when a public sewer or storm drain
of adequate capacity is available for use, swimming pool wastewater shall be
discharged there into and permission shall be obtained in writing from the
proper authority to do so. A copy of such permission stating the maximum size
of the waste line between the receptor and the sewer, and other specific
requirements, shall accompany any applications for a permit made to the
administrative authority.
813.4 Where space and conditions are such that no hazard, nuisance or
unsanitary conditions evidenced, swimming pool wastewater may be used for
irrigation by surface or subsurface spreading.
813.5 When no other means of wastewater disposal is available, a drywell may be
installed. Each such drywell shall be constructed in the manner described for
cesspools in Appendix H of this code, and drywells receiving only filter
backwash shall have a capacity of at least twice the amount of effluent
discharged during one normal backwash operation, but shall in no case have less
than a five (5) foot (1.5m) vertical sidewall. When a pool emptying or other
drains are proposed the size and leaching capacity of such drywell shall be
proportionately increased to the satisfaction of the administrative authority.
No wastewater other than that from a swimming pool shall discharge into any
such drywell, and no wastewater from any swimming pool shall discharge into a
private sewage disposal system.
813.6 No direct connection shall be made between any storm drain, sewer,
drainage system, drywell, or subsoil irrigation line and any line connected to
a swimming pool.
813.7 Wastewater from any filter, scum gutter overflow, pool emptying line, or
similar apparatus or appurtenance shall discharge into an approved type
receptor. The flood level rim of each such receptor shall be at least six (6)
inches (152.4mm) above the flood level of the adjacent ground. Each such
receptor, when permitted to be connected to any part of a drainage system,
shall be provided with a three (3) inch (76.2m) trap.
813.8 Except as provided in section 813.9, the discharge outlet terminal from
any pool or filter shall be protected from backflow by an air gap at least six
(6) inches (152.4mm) above the flood rim of the receptor.
813.9 No scum gutter drain, overflow drain, backwash discharge drain, or pool
emptying line shall enter any receptor below the rim unless the pool piping at
its deepest point, the bottom of the filters and the bottom of the scum gutter
drain trough or overflow inlets are at least six (6) inches (152.4 mm) above
the overflow rim of the receptor.
813.10 A positive point of potable water supply to each swimming pool shall be
established and shall be installed as required by Chapter 6 of this code.
813.11 Plans for other that private swimming pools shall be approved by the
health officer before any water supply or waste discharge permit is issued.
813.12 All swimming pools shall be equipped with a filtration system which
shall be installed in conformance with standards established by the
administrative authority, which filtration system will permit the reuse of the
water in swimming pools for a period of not less than one (1) year.
A swimming pool is defined as a portable or permanent artificial basin,
chamber, or tank which when filled with water to overflow contains more than
one thousand (1,000) gallons or is over two (2) feet in depth at any point.
813.13 A private wading pool is exempt from the foregoing requirements, but
must be maintained in a sanitary condition. A private wading pool is defined as
a portable or permanent artificial basin, chamber, or tank maintained by an
individual for wading by small children which when filled with water to
overflow contains less than one thousand (1,000) gallons and does not exceed
two (2) feet at any point.
813.14 Recirculating water for swimming pools shall be constructed and
installed under the same standards and requirements as potable water piping in
Chapter 6 of this code.
(Ord. 826-17, 6-20-2017; amd. Ord. 834-20, 1-20-2020; Ord. 851-23, 1-17-2023)
CHAPTER 7
ELECTRICAL CODE
SECTION:
5-7-1: Short Title
5-7-2: Application Of Code
5-7-3: Provisions Adopted
5-7-4: Applicability
5-7-5: Qualified Electrician Required
5-7-6: Special Residential Requirements
5-7-7: Amendments (Rep. by Ord. 826-17, 6-20-2017)
5-7-8: Administration
5-7-8-1: Permits Required
5-7-8-2: Inspection
5-7-8-3: Preinspection; Prohibited Acts
5-7-8-4: Temporary Use And Connection
5-7-8-5: Inspection; Requirements
5-7-8-6: Inspection; Right Of Entry
5-7-9: Enforcement
5-7-9-1: Stop Orders
5-7-9-2: Disconnection
5-7-10: Electrical Maintenance Permit
5-7-10-1: Work Not Qualifying
5-7-10-2: Industrial Work Qualifying
5-7-10-3: Exempted Oil Field Work
5-7-10-4: Reports; Dates Due
5-7-10-5: Cancellation
5-7-1: SHORT TITLE:
This chapter may be cited as the TAFT ELECTRICAL CODE. (Ord. 696-02, 10-1-2002)
5-7-2: APPLICATION OF CODE:
The Taft Electrical Code shall apply to new construction, relocated buildings
and to any alterations, repairs or reconstruction of buildings in the
incorporated territory of the City of Taft. (Ord. 696-02, 10-1-2002)
5-7-3: PROVISIONS ADOPTED:
These regulations known as the "California Electrical Code," 2022 Edition,
California Code of Regulations, Title 24, Part 3, which incorporate by adoption
the 2020 Edition of the National Electrical Code, with necessary California
amendments, including all the Annexes A through J, as published by the
International Code Council, is hereby adopted and made part of this Chapter by
reference with the same force and effect as if fully set forth herein. (Ord.
826-17, 6-20-2017; amd. Ord. 834-20, 1-20-2020; Ord. 851-23, 1-17-2023)
5-7-4: APPLICABILITY:
   (A)   The Taft Electrical Code shall apply to all electrical wiring and
electrical equipment which is installed and used in the City of Taft.
   (B)   This chapter does not apply to electrical wiring in:
      1.   Buildings owned or controlled by the Federal or State government;
      2.   Signal or communication equipment, including building wiring of an
interstate railroad;
      3.   Facilities of an electrical public utility, including:
         (a)   Facilities of a communication public utility where the wiring
supplies electricity to communications apparatus, including lighting;
         (b)   Facilities for the production, generation, storage or
transmission of water or electrical energy by a local agency. "Local agency"
means an agency of the State of California for the local performance of
governmental or proprietary functions within limited boundaries. (Ord. 747-07,
12-18-2007)
5-7-5: QUALIFIED ELECTRICIAN REQUIRED:
No person shall install, alter or repair electrical wiring unless he is a
qualified electrician or under the supervision of a qualified electrician,
except that:
   (A)   A property owner may do electrical work on his own property;
   (B)   A homeowner or a member of his immediate family may do electrical work
on his residence. (Ord. 747-07, 12-18-2007)
5-7-6: SPECIAL RESIDENTIAL REQUIREMENTS:
In dwelling occupancies, the overhead service entrance conduit shall be rigid
metallic conduit, when required by the serving utility. (Ord. 747-07, 12-18-
2007)
5-7-7: AMENDMENTS:
(Rep. by Ord. 826-17, 6-20-2017)
5-7-8: ADMINISTRATION:
5-7-8-1: PERMITS REQUIRED:
   (A)   Securing A Permit: It shall be unlawful for any person, firm,
corporation, owner of the land, or possessor to install, energize, reenergize,
use or maintain any electrical equipment or wiring system within or on any
building, structure, or premises within the jurisdiction of the enforcing
official, nor shall any alteration or addition be made thereto, without first
securing a permit therefor from the building official, with the following
exceptions:
      1.   Minor repair work, the replacement of lamps or the connection of
portable electrical equipment to suitable permanently installed receptacles;
      2.   Electrical wiring expressly exempted from this chapter;
      3.   Reenergization of a meter and/or service where the meter and/or the
service drop or lateral has not been removed or disconnected.
   (B)   Separate Permits Required; Exceptions: A separate permit shall be
required for electrical installations, alteration, reconstruction or repair of
electrical wiring or application in each building, except that the permit
covering a main building for a dwelling occupancy may include electrical wiring
for an accessory building having a floor area of one thousand (1,000) square
feet or less, located on the same premises as the main building, and supplied
from the main building.
   (C)   Penalty Fees: Any person who commences any electrical work for which a
permit is required, without first having obtained a permit therefor, shall pay
double the permit fee. This subsection shall not apply if in the opinion of the
building official it was for emergency work when such work was urgently
necessary and it was not practical to obtain a permit before commencement of
the work. In all cases, a permit must be obtained as soon as it is practical,
and if there is unreasonable delay in obtaining the permit, a double fee as
herein provided shall be charged.
   (D)   Plans And Specifications: Each application for a permit shall be
accompanied by plans and specifications or by a suitable diagram subject to
approval by the building official.
   (E)   Plans And Specifications; Requirements:
      1.   Plans, specifications, computations and other data shall be prepared
by persons properly authorized by the State of California. The plans and
specifications submitted with permit applications shall be subject to the
following conditions:
         (a)   The information contained on the plans shall be clearly legible.
No plan for electric wiring in a building shall be in scale less than one-
eighth inch to one foot (1/8" = 1').
         (b)   Two (2) sets of plans and specifications shall be filed for
checking when the application is submitted. If the building official finds that
the work described in the plans and specifications conforms to the requirements
of this Code and other pertinent laws and ordinances, one set shall be approved
and returned to the applicant; the other approved set(s) shall be retained by
the department for field checking.
         (c)   If the plans or specifications do not comply with all provisions
of this Code, the necessary changes or revisions shall be made thereto by the
person who originally drew the plan or his duly authorized agent.
         (d)   Plans and specifications on file with the department may only be
inspected pursuant to Health and Safety Code 19850 et seq.
   (F)   Plans And Specifications; Minor Additions: If an application for
permit is filed for work involving wiring or electrical applications which
constitute minor "installations" or alterations to an existing electrical
system, the building official may waive the requirements for plans and
specifications.
   (G)   Permit Issuance:
      1.   The application, plans, specifications, computations and other data
filed by the applicant for permit shall be reviewed by the building official.
If the building official finds that the work described in an application for a
permit and the plans, specifications and other data filed therewith conforms to
the requirements of this code and other pertinent laws and ordinances, and that
the fees specified herein have been paid, he shall issue a permit therefor to
the applicant.
      2.   When the building official issues the permit where plans are
required, he shall endorse in writing or stamp the plans and specifications
"APPROVED". Such approved plans and specifications shall not be changed,
modified or altered without authorization from the building official, and all
work regulated by this code shall be done in accordance with the approved
plans. (Ord. 747-07, 12-18-2007)
5-7-8-2: INSPECTION:
   (A)   Inspection Of Work Required: All electrical work and wiring installed
under a permit shall be inspected and approved by the department before it is
concealed, energized, placed in service, or used. (Ord. 747-07, 12-18-2007)
5-7-8-3: PREINSPECTION; PROHIBITED ACTS:
   (A)   No person shall use or energize electrical work or wiring installed
under permit, or allow its use or energizing, until it has been inspected and
approved by the department.
   (B)   No utility or service agency shall supply electrical energy, or cause
it to be supplied, to electrical equipment or to a wiring system which has not
been inspected and approved unless temporary connections are authorized by the
department.
   (C)   No utility or service agency shall supply electrical energy, or cause
it to be supplied, to electrical equipment or wiring systems where the meter
and/or service drop or lateral has been removed or disconnected until it has
been inspected and approved by the department. (Ord. 747-07, 12-18-2007)
5-7-8-4: TEMPORARY USE AND CONNECTION:
If necessary to prevent hardship and if inspection will not be impeded,
temporary connection of electrical energy and use of electrical work or wiring
may be authorized by the department prior to inspection and approval of the
electrical work. (Ord. 747-07, 12-18-2007)
5-7-8-5: INSPECTION; REQUIREMENTS:
   (A)   Each obstruction which renders impracticable a complete and thorough
inspection of electrical wiring shall be removed following notice to do so;
wiring shall remain unobstructed until the wiring has been inspected and
approved by the department.
   (B)   If there is reasonable evidence that conductors are damaged or do not
comply with code requirements, the inspector may require the conductors to be
replaced or removed from raceways for inspection.
   (C)   Fixtures, appliances, devices, and equipment shall not be connected to
electric wiring until the rough wiring, including conductors, has been
inspected and approved.
   (D)   All grounding terminations shall be made up, except for attachment to
devices, prior to rough electrical inspection.
   (E)   Wiring shall be free from grounds, shorts or other defects before
approval by the department.
   (F)   Upon request of the inspector, ladders or other means suitable to aid
inspections of any electrical wiring shall be provided. (Ord. 747-07, 12-18-
2007)
5-7-8-6: INSPECTION; RIGHT OF ENTRY:
The building official may, upon the presentation of proper credentials to the
occupant or owner, enter any premises, building or structure at any reasonable
time for the purpose of investigating and inspecting such premises, building or
structure to determine whether the same is being used in compliance with the
provisions of this title (including codes which have been adopted by
reference). If admission or entry is refused, the building official may apply
to obtain an inspection warrant. (Ord. 747-07, 12-18-2007)
5-7-9: ENFORCEMENT:
5-7-9-1: STOP ORDERS:
   (A)   Whenever any work is being done contrary to the provisions of this
code or when a hazard to life or property is created, the building official may
order the work stopped by notice in writing served on any persons engaged in
the doing or causing such work to be done, and any such persons shall forthwith
stop such work until authorized by the building official to proceed with the
work.
   (B)   No person shall fail, neglect or refuse to comply with a stop order.
(Ord. 747-07, 12-18-2007)
5-7-9-2: DISCONNECTION:
   (A)   If the department determines that an electrical installation is in
violation of this code, an order shall be given to the owner to correct the
violation. The order shall be in writing and shall specify the particulars in
which the installation is in violation; and it shall specify a reasonable time
for compliance with the order. In cases of extreme danger to life and property,
the order shall further require that all persons cease using electric current
throughout the installation and the installation be disconnected immediately.
   (B)   If the violation continues to exist beyond the time fixed by the
order, the department is authorized to disconnect physically the portion of the
installation in violation, or to order the serving agency to disconnect
electric service to the wiring system.
   (C)   Where a disconnection has been made by the department, a seal shall be
attached to the electrical wiring at the point of disconnect.
   (D)   When an electric wiring installation has been sealed by the
department, no person shall use, cause or permit the use of the installation
prior to the removal of the seal by the department.
   (E)   No person shall break, destroy or remove a seal or tag attachment to a
disconnection without the written consent of the department. (Ord. 747-07, 12-
18-2007)
5-7-10: ELECTRICAL MAINTENANCE PERMIT:
The electrical maintenance permit (EMP) is an authorization for a business or
industrial firm with ongoing, repetitive and routine electrical work to comply
with certain minimum standards regarding the plan checking and inspection of
such activity through a quarterly reporting program where:
   (A)   A qualified electrical activity is performed by a C-10 (electrical)
contractor or qualified electrician.
   (B)   The work performed is tracked by the permittee and is reported to the
department on forms provided by the building official on a quarterly basis by
the business or industrial firm's designated contact person.
   (C)   The department's inspection staff meets with the firm's contact person
to perform representative spot inspections on the work performed. (Ord. 747-07,
12-18-2007)
5-7-10-1: WORK NOT QUALIFYING:
   (A)   Electrical work requiring any other type of building permit under this
code of building regulations shall obtain a separate electrical permit;
however, if the permit is only for construction of oil field pipe racks and/or
oil field foundations and the electrical work is otherwise applicable to the
EMP it may be reported on the EMP form and a separate permit is not required.
   (B)   Electrical work not considered appropriate to be reported on the EMP,
or exempted work. (Ord. 747-07, 12-18-2007)
5-7-10-2: INDUSTRIAL WORK QUALIFYING:
Such minor new electrical construction and/or maintenance work as:
   (A)   All new installations and related electrical wiring used by a business
or industrial firm of an ongoing, repetitive and routine nature at a new or
reworked location that results in an overall net increase in horsepower at the
service drop(s), or any location requiring a new or larger service drop as long
as they do not exceed the limitations indicated in subsection (B) of this
section. The qualified electrician or C-10 contractor who makes the new or
reworked installation must prepare and sign a complete one line load diagram of
the new electrical installation after the installation is complete, and prior
to submittal with the EMP report. If a standard (typical) one line load diagram
which matches the installation has been approved by this department, a
reference to the standard plan number on the EMP may be used in place of
submitting the one line load diagram.
   (B)   New construction small site electrical installations (no occupancy)
used by a business or industrial firm of an ongoing, repetitive and routine
nature: All electrical equipment with a four hundred eighty (480) volt maximum
and/or two hundred fifty (250) horsepower maximum, all transformers less than
five hundred (500) kVA, and connected loads with a two hundred fifty (250)
horsepower maximum. The qualified electrician or C-10 contractor who makes the
installation must prepare and sign a complete one line load diagram of the new
electrical installation after it is complete, and prior to submittal with the
EMP report. If a standard (typical) one line load diagram which matches the
installation has been approved by this department a reference to the standard
plan number on the EMP may be used in place of submitting the one line load
diagram.
   (C)   All electrical installations are subject to the current provisions of
the Code of Building Regulations, the California electrical code and approval
or exemption from the permit process by the Taft building department.
   (D)   Separate electrical permits are required for all other installations,
unless specifically exempted herein. (Ord. 747-07, 12-18-2007)
5-7-10-3: EXEMPTED OIL FIELD WORK:
   (A)   The following oil field electrical construction is exempt from the
requirement for reporting on the EMP report:
      1.   Repair or replacement of existing electrical equipment with like or
smaller equipment (like for like change outs);
      2.   Relocation of pumping units or artificial lift devices to existing
locations (250 horsepower maximum);
      3.   All overhead electrical distribution line(s) and apparatus regulated
under general order 95 (GO 95) twelve (12) kV or less;
      4.   Repair or replacement of fixed motors, transformers or fixed
approved appliances of the same type and rating in the same location;
      5.   Temporary or emergency lighting;
      6.   Repair or replacement of current-carrying parts of any switch,
contactor or control device;
      7.   Repair or replacement of any over current device of the required
capacity in the same location;
      8.   Removal of electrical wiring.
   (B)   Exemption from the permit requirements of this code shall not be
deemed to grant authorization for any work to be done in any manner in
violation of the provisions of this code or any other laws or ordinances of
this jurisdiction. (Ord. 747-07, 12-18-2007)
5-7-10-4: REPORTS; DATES DUE:
The quarterly EMP reports must be mailed to this department within thirty (30)
days of the close of the quarters and failure to provide the report may result
in the reporting party losing eligibility for future electrical maintenance
permits. The following chart depicts the periods covered by the quarterly
reports and the deadlines for mailing the reports:
 
  Quarter Period                              Report By
                                            
 1             July 1 through September   October 31
 2             October 1 through Decemb   January 31
 3             January 1 through March    April 30
 4             April 1 through June 30    July 31
 
(Ord. 747-07, 12-18-2007)
5-7-10-5: CANCELLATION:
Upon notice from the department that the business or industrial firm or
qualified electrician is not complying with this chapter the electrical
maintenance permit may be canceled. Any paid fees will be forfeited. (Ord. 747-
07, 12-18-2007)
CHAPTER 8
SIGN CODE
   (Rep. by Ord. 646-96, 8-20-1996)
CHAPTER 9
FIRE CODE
SECTION:
5-9-1: Short Title
5-9-2: Adoption Of Code
5-9-1: SHORT TITLE:
This chapter may be cited as the TAFT FIRE CODE. (Ord. 696-02, 10-1-2002)
5-9-2: ADOPTION OF CODE:
These regulations known as the “California Fire Code,” 2022 Edition, California
Code of Regulations, Title 24, Part 9, which incorporate by adoption the 2021
International Fire Code, with necessary California amendments, including
appendix chapters and local amendments adopted by Chapter 17.32 Fire Code of
the Code of Building Regulations of Kern County, and as published by the
International Code Council, is hereby adopted and made part of this Chapter by
reference with the same force and effect as if fully set forth herein. (Ord.
826-17, 6-20-2017; amd. Ord. 834-20, 1-20-2020; Ord. 851-23, 1-17-2023)
CHAPTER 10
BUILDING CONSERVATION CODE
SECTION:
5-10-1: Short Title
5-10-2: Application Of Code
5-10-3: Adoption Of Code
5-10-1: SHORT TITLE:
This chapter may be cited as the TAFT BUILDING CONSERVATION CODE. (Ord. 696-02,
10-1-2002)
5-10-2: APPLICATION OF CODE:
The Taft building conservation code shall apply to the construction, erection,
enlargement, alteration, repair, moving, improvement, removing, conversion,
demolition, land use and occupancy of every existing building and structure in
the incorporated territory of the city of Taft, excepting those exempted
therefrom. (Ord. 696-02, 10-1-2002)
5-10-3: ADOPTION OF CODE:
The 2001 California Code For Building Conservation, with appendices, based on
the 1997 uniform code of conservation (sponsored and copyright by the
International Conference of Building Officials), is adopted by reference into
the Taft building conservation code. (Ord. 696-02, 10-1-2002)
CHAPTER 11
HAZARDOUS MATERIALS RELEASE RESPONSE PLANS AND INVENTORY
SECTION:
5-11-1: Purpose
5-11-2: County Enforcement
5-11-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to implement the hazardous materials release
response plans and inventory provisions of the California Health and Safety
Code commencing with section 25500. (Ord. 533, 2-3-1987)
5-11-2: COUNTY ENFORCEMENT:
The Kern County fire department shall be responsible for the implementation and
enforcement of chapter 6.95, commencing with section 25500, of division 20 of
the California Health and Safety Code. (Ord. 749-07, 12-18-2007)
CHAPTER 12
FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT
SECTION:
5-12-1: Statutory Authorization; Findings Of Fact; Purpose And Methods
5-12-1-1:Statutory Authorization
5-12-1-2:Findings Of Fact
5-12-1-3:Statement Of Purpose
5-12-1-4:Methods Of Reducing Flood Losses
5-12-2: Definitions
5-12-3: General Provisions
5-12-3-1:Lands To Which This Chapter Applies
5-12-3-2:Basis For Establishing The Areas Of Special Flood Hazard
5-12-3-3: Compliance
5-12-3-4:Abrogation And Greater Restrictions
5-12-3-5:Interpretation
5-12-3-6:Warning And Disclaimer Of Liability
5-12-4: Administration
5-12-4-1:Designation Of The Floodplain Administrator
5-12-4-2:Duties And Responsibilities Of The Floodplain Administrator
5-12-4-3:Development Permit
5-12-4-4:Appeals
5-12-5: Provisions For Flood Hazard Reduction
5-12-5-1:Standards Of Construction
5-12-5-2:Standards For Utilities
5-12-5-3:Standards For Subdivisions And Other Proposed Development
5-12-5-4:Standards For Manufactured Homes
5-12-5-5:Standards For Recreational Vehicles
5-12-5-6: Floodways
5-12-6: Variance Procedure
5-12-6-1:Nature Of Variances
5-12-6-2:Conditions For Variances
5-12-6-3:Appeal Board
5-12-1: STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION; FINDINGS OF FACT; PURPOSE AND METHODS:
5-12-1-1: STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION:
The legislature of the state of California has in Government Code sections
65302, 65560, and 65800 conferred upon local governments the authority to adopt
regulations designed to promote the public health, safety, and general welfare
of its citizenry. Therefore, the city council of the city of Taft does hereby
adopt the following floodplain management regulations. (Ord. 767-08, 6-17-2008)
5-12-1-2: FINDINGS OF FACT:
   (A)   The flood hazard areas of the city of Taft are subject to periodic
inundation which results in loss of life and property, health and safety
hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental services, extraordinary public
expenditures for flood protection and relief, and impairment of the tax base,
all of which adversely affect the public health, safety, and general welfare.
   (B)   These flood losses are caused by uses that are inadequately elevated,
floodproofed, or protected from flood damage. The cumulative effect of
obstructions in areas of special flood hazards which increase flood heights and
velocities also contributes to flood losses. (Ord. 767-08, 6-17-2008)
5-12-1-3: STATEMENT OF PURPOSE:
It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the public health, safety, and
general welfare, and to minimize public and private losses due to flood
conditions in specific areas by legally enforceable regulations applied
uniformly throughout the community to all publicly and privately owned land
within flood prone, mudslide (i.e., mudflow) or flood related erosion areas.
These regulations are designed to:
   (A)   Protect human life and health;
   (B)   Minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control
projects;
   (C)   Minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
   (D)   Minimize prolonged business interruptions;
   (E)   Minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as water and
gas mains; electric, telephone and sewer lines; and streets and bridges located
in areas of special flood hazard;
   (F)   Help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of areas of special flood hazard so as to minimize future blighted
areas caused by flood damage;
   (G)   Ensure that potential buyers are notified that property is in an area
of special flood hazard; and
   (H)   Ensure that those who occupy the areas of special flood hazard assume
responsibility for their actions. (Ord. 767-08, 6-17-2008)
5-12-1-4: METHODS OF REDUCING FLOOD LOSSES:
In order to accomplish its purposes, this chapter includes regulations to:
   (A)   Restrict or prohibit uses which are dangerous to health, safety and
property due to water or erosion hazards, or which result in damaging increases
in erosion or flood heights or velocities;
   (B)   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities which
serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
   (C)   Control the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels and
natural protective barriers which help accommodate or channel floodwaters;
   (D)   Control filling, grading, dredging, and other development which may
increase flood damage; and
   (E)   Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers which will
unnaturally divert floodwaters or which may increase flood hazards in other
areas. (Ord. 767-08, 6-17-2008)
5-12-2: DEFINITIONS:
Unless specifically defined below, words or phrases used in this chapter shall
be interpreted so as to give them the meaning they have in common usage and to
give this chapter its most reasonable application.
A ZONE: See definition of Special Flood Hazard Area (SFHA).
ACCESSORY STRUCTURE: A structure that is either:
   (A)   Solely for the parking of no more than two (2) cars; or
   (B)   A small, low cost shed for limited storage, less than one hundred
fifty (150) square feet and one thousand five hundred dollars ($1,500.00) in
value.
ACCESSORY USE: A use which is incidental and subordinate to the principal use
of the parcel of land on which it is located.
ALLUVIAL FAN: A geomorphologic feature characterized by a cone or fan shaped
deposit of boulders, gravel, and fine sediments that have been eroded from
mountain slopes, transported by flood flows, and then deposited on the valley
floors, and which is subject to flash flooding, high velocity flows, debris
flows, erosion, sediment movement and deposition, and channel migration.
APEX: A point on an alluvial fan or similar landform below which the flow path
of the major stream that formed the fan becomes unpredictable and alluvial fan
flooding can occur.
APPEAL: A request for a review of the floodplain administrator's interpretation
of any provision of this chapter.
AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING: A designated AO or AH zone on the flood insurance
rate map (FIRM). The base flood depths range from one to three feet (3'); a
clearly defined channel does not exist; the path of flooding is unpredictable
and indeterminate; and velocity flow may be evident. Such flooding is
characterized by ponding or sheet flow.
AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD: See definition of Special Flood Hazard Area
(SFHA).
BASE FLOOD: A flood which has a one percent (1%) chance of being equaled or
exceeded in any given year (also called the "100-year flood"). Base flood is
the term used throughout this chapter.
BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE): The elevation shown on the flood insurance rate map
for zones AE, AH, A1-30, VE and V1-V30 that indicates the water surface
elevation resulting from a flood that has a one percent (1%) or greater chance
of being equaled or exceeded in any given year.
BASEMENT: Any area of the building having its floor subgrade (i.e., below
ground level) on all sides.
BUILDING: See definition of Structure.
DEVELOPMENT: Any manmade change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations or storage of
equipment or materials.
ENCROACHMENT: The advance or infringement of uses, plant growth, fill,
excavation, buildings, permanent structures or development into a floodplain
which may impede or alter the flow capacity of a floodplain.
EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed before November 17, 1992.
EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: The preparation
of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the installation of
utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site grading or the
pouring of concrete pads).
FLOOD BOUNDARY AND FLOODWAY MAP (FBFM): The official map on which the federal
emergency management agency or federal insurance administration has delineated
both the areas of special flood hazards and the floodway.
FLOOD, FLOODING, OR FLOODWATER: (A) A general and temporary condition of
partial or complete inundation of normally dry land areas from the overflow of
inland or tidal waters; the unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface
waters from any source; and/or mudslides (i.e., mudflows); and
   (B)   The condition resulting from flood related erosion.
FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM): The official map on which the federal
emergency management agency or federal insurance administration has delineated
both the areas of special flood hazards and the risk premium zones applicable
to the community.
FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY: The official report provided by the federal insurance
administration that includes flood profiles, the flood insurance rate map, the
flood boundary and floodway map, and the water surface elevation of the base
flood.
FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR: The community official designated by this title to
administer and enforce the floodplain management regulations.
FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT: The operation of an overall program of corrective and
preventive measures for reducing flood damage and preserving and enhancing,
where possible, natural resources in the floodplain, including, but not limited
to, emergency preparedness plans, flood control works, floodplain management
regulations, and open space plans.
FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS: This chapter and other zoning ordinances,
subdivision regulations, building codes, health regulations, special purpose
ordinances (such as grading and erosion control) and other application of
police power which control development in flood prone areas. This term
describes federal, state or local regulations in any combination thereof which
provide standards for preventing and reducing flood loss and damage.
FLOODPLAIN OR FLOOD PRONE AREA: Any land area susceptible to being inundated by
water from any source (see definition of Flood, Flooding, or Floodwater).
FLOODPROOFING: Any combination of structural and nonstructural additions,
changes, or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate or improved real property, water and sanitary facilities,
structures, and their contents. For guidelines on dry and wet floodproofing,
see FEMA technical bulletins TB 1-93, TB 3-93, and TB 7-93.
FLOODWAY: The channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent land
areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without
cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than one foot (1').
Also referred to as "regulatory floodway".
FLOODWAY FRINGE: That area of the floodplain on either side of the "regulatory
floodway" where encroachment may be permitted.
FRAUD AND VICTIMIZATION: As related to section
5-12-6 of this chapter, means that the variance granted must not cause fraud on
or victimization of the public. In examining this requirement, the city council
will consider the fact that every newly constructed building adds to government
responsibilities and remains a part of the community for fifty (50) to one
hundred (100) years. Buildings that are permitted to be constructed below the
base flood elevation are subject during all those years to increased risk of
damage from floods, while future owners of the property and the community as a
whole are subject to all the costs, inconvenience, danger, and suffering that
those increased flood damages bring. In addition, future owners may purchase
the property, unaware that it is subject to potential flood damage, and can be
insured only at very high flood insurance rates.
FUNCTIONALLY DEPENDENT USE: A use which cannot perform its intended purpose
unless it is located or carried out in close proximity to water. The term
includes only docking facilities, port facilities that are necessary for the
loading and unloading of cargo or passengers, and shipbuilding and ship repair
facilities, and does not include long term storage or related manufacturing
facilities.
GOVERNING BODY: The local governing unit, i.e., county or municipality, that is
empowered to adopt and implement regulations to provide for the public health,
safety and general welfare of its citizenry.
HARDSHIP: As related to section
5-12-6 of this chapter means the exceptional hardship that would result from a
failure to grant the requested variance. The city council requires that the
variance be exceptional, unusual, and peculiar to the property involved. Mere
economic or financial hardship alone is not exceptional. Inconvenience,
aesthetic considerations, physical handicaps, personal preferences, or the
disapproval of one's neighbors likewise cannot, as a rule, qualify as an
exceptional hardship. All of these problems can be resolved through other means
without granting a variance, even if the alternative is more expensive, or
requires the property owner to build elsewhere or put the parcel to a different
use than originally intended.
HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE: The highest natural elevation of the ground surface
prior to construction next to the proposed walls of a structure.
HISTORIC STRUCTURE: Any structure that is:
   (A)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a
listing maintained by the department of the interior) or preliminarily
determined by the secretary of the interior as meeting the requirements for
individual listing on the national register;
   (B)   Certified or preliminarily determined by the secretary of the interior
as contributing to the historical significance of a registered historic
district or a district preliminarily determined by the secretary to qualify as
a registered historic district;
   (C)   Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places in states
with historic preservation programs which have been approved by the secretary
of the interior; or
   (D)   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places in
communities with historic preservation programs that have been certified either
by an approved state program as determined by the secretary of the interior or
directly by the secretary of the interior in states without approved programs.
LEVEE: A manmade structure, usually an earthen embankment, designed and
constructed in accordance with sound engineering practices to contain, control
or divert the flow of water so as to provide protection from temporary
flooding.
LEVEE SYSTEM: A flood protection system which consists of a levee, or levees,
and associated structures, such as closure and drainage devices, which are
constructed and operated in accord with sound engineering practices.
LOWEST FLOOR: The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area, including basement
(see definition of Basement).
   (A)   An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure below the lowest floor that
is usable solely for parking of vehicles, building access or storage in an area
other than a basement area, is not considered a building's lowest floor
provided it conforms to applicable nonelevation design requirements, including,
but not limited to:
      1.   The flood openings standard in subsection
5-12-5-1(C)3 of this chapter;
      2.   The anchoring standards in subsection
5-12-5-1(A) of this chapter;
      3.   The construction materials and methods standards in subsection
5-12-5-1(B) of this chapter; and
      4.   The standards for utilities in section
5-12-5-2 of this chapter.
MANUFACTURED HOME: A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which is
built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when attached to the required utilities. The term
"manufactured home" does not include a "recreational vehicle".
MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of land
divided into two (2) or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
MARKET VALUE: Shall be determined by estimating the cost to replace the
structure in new condition and adjusting that cost figure by the amount of
depreciation which has accrued since the structure was constructed.
   (A)   The cost of replacement of the structure shall be based on a square
foot cost factor determined by reference to a building cost estimating guide
recognized by the building construction industry.
   (B)   The amount of depreciation shall be determined by taking into account
the age and physical deterioration of the structure and functional obsolescence
as approved by the floodplain administrator, but shall not include economic or
other forms of external obsolescence.
Use of replacement costs or accrued depreciation factors different from those
contained in recognized building cost estimating guides may be considered only
if such factors are included in a report prepared by an independent
professional appraiser and supported by a written explanation of the
differences.
MEAN SEA LEVEL: For purposes of the national flood insurance program, the
national geodetic vertical datum (NGVD) of 1929, North American vertical datum
(NAVD) of 1988, or other datum, to which base flood elevations shown on a
community's flood insurance rate map are referenced.
NEW CONSTRUCTION: For floodplain management purposes, means structures for
which the "start of construction" commenced on or after November 17, 1992, and
includes any subsequent improvements to such structures.
NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after November 17,
1992.
OBSTRUCTION: Includes, but is not limited to, any dam, wall, wharf, embankment,
levee, dike, pile, abutment, protection, excavation, channelization, bridge,
conduit, culvert, building, wire, fence, rock, gravel, refuse, fill, structure,
vegetation or other material in, along, across or projecting into any
watercourse which may alter, impede, retard or change the direction and/or
velocity of the flow of water, or due to its location, its propensity to snare
or collect debris carried by the flow of water, or its likelihood of being
carried downstream.
ONE HUNDRED YEAR FLOOD OR 100-YEAR FLOOD: See definition of Base Flood.
PROGRAM DEFICIENCY: A defect in a community's floodplain management regulations
or administrative procedures that impairs effective implementation of those
floodplain management regulations.
PUBLIC SAFETY AND NUISANCE: As related to section
5-12-6 of this chapter, means that the granting of a variance must not result
in anything which is injurious to safety or health of an entire community or
neighborhood, or any considerable number of persons, or unlawfully obstructs
the free passage or use, in the customary manner, of any navigable lake, or
river, bay, stream, canal, or basin.
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE: A vehicle which is:
   (A)   Built on a single chassis;
   (B)   Four hundred (400) square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projection;
   (C)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light duty
truck; and
   (D)   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use.
REGULATORY FLOODWAY: The channel of a river or other watercourse and the
adjacent land areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood
without cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than one foot
(1').
REMEDY A VIOLATION: To bring the structure or other development into compliance
with state or local floodplain management regulations, or if this is not
possible, to reduce the impacts of its noncompliance. Ways that impacts may be
reduced include protecting the structure or other affected development from
flood damages, implementing the enforcement provisions of this chapter or
otherwise deterring future similar violations, or reducing state or federal
financial exposure with regard to the structure or other development.
RIVERINE: Relating to, formed by, or resembling a river (including
tributaries), stream, brook, etc.
SHEET FLOW AREA: See definition of Area Of Shallow Flooding.
SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA): An area in the floodplain subject to a one
percent (1%) or greater chance of flooding in any given year. It is shown on an
FHBM or FIRM as zone A, AO, A1-A30, AE, A99, or AH.
START OF CONSTRUCTION: Includes substantial improvement and other proposed new
development and means the date the building permit was issued, provided the
actual start of construction, repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition,
placement, or other improvement was within one hundred eighty (180) days from
the date of the permit. The actual start means either the first placement of
permanent construction of a structure on a site, such as the pouring of slab or
footings, the installation of piles, the construction of columns, or any work
beyond the stage of excavation; or the placement of a manufactured home on a
foundation. Permanent construction does not include land preparation, such as
clearing, grading, and filling; nor does it include the installation of streets
and/or walkways; nor does it include excavation for a basement, footings,
piers, or foundations or the erection of temporary forms; nor does it include
the installation on the property of accessory buildings, such as garages or
sheds not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main structure. For a
substantial improvement, the actual start of construction means the first
alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural part of a building,
whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of the building.
STRUCTURE: A walled and roofed building that is principally aboveground; this
includes a gas or liquid storage tank or a manufactured home.
SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE: (A) Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby
the cost of restoring the structure to its before damaged condition would equal
or exceed fifty percent (50%) of the market value of the structure before the
damage occurred; or
   (B)   Flood related damages sustained by a structure on two (2) separate
occasions during a ten (10) year period for which the cost of repairs at the
time of each such event, on the average, equals or exceeds twenty five percent
(25%) of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred. This is
also known as "repetitive loss".
SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT: Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, or other
improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds fifty percent
(50%) of the market value of the structure before the "start of construction"
of the improvement. This term includes structures which have incurred
"substantial damage", regardless of the actual repair work performed. The term
does not, however, include either:
   (A)   Any project for improvement of a structure to correct existing
violations or state or local health, sanitary, or safety code specifications
which have been identified by the local code enforcement official and which are
the minimum necessary to assure safe living conditions; or
   (B)   Any alteration of a "historic structure", provided that the alteration
will not preclude the structure's continued designation as a "historic
structure".
VARIANCE: A grant of relief from the requirements of this chapter which permits
construction in a manner that would otherwise be prohibited by this chapter.
VIOLATION: The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with this chapter. A structure or other development without the
elevation certificate, other certifications, or other evidence of compliance
required in this chapter is presumed to be in violation until such time as that
documentation is provided.
WATER SURFACE ELEVATION: The height, in relation to the national geodetic
vertical datum (NGVD) of 1929, North American vertical datum (NAVD) of 1988, or
other datum, of floods of various magnitudes and frequencies in the floodplains
of coastal or riverine areas.
WATERCOURSE: A lake, river, creek, stream, wash, arroyo, channel or other
topographic feature on or over which waters flow at least periodically.
Watercourse includes specifically designated areas in which substantial flood
damage may occur. (Ord. 767-08, 6-17-2008)
5-12-3: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
5-12-3-1: LANDS TO WHICH THIS CHAPTER APPLIES:
This chapter shall apply to all areas of special flood hazards within the
jurisdiction of the city of Taft. (Ord. 767-08, 6-17-2008)
5-12-3-2: BASIS FOR ESTABLISHING THE AREAS OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD:
The areas of special flood hazard identified by the federal emergency
management agency (FEMA) in the "Flood Insurance Study (FIS) For The City Of
Taft, California (Kern County), Dated September 30, 1992", with accompanying
flood insurance rate maps (FIRMs) and flood boundary and floodway maps (FBFMs),
dated September 30, 1992, and all subsequent amendments and/or revisions, are
hereby adopted by reference and declared to be a part of this chapter. This FIS
and attendant mapping is the minimum area of applicability of this chapter and
may be supplemented by studies for other areas which allow implementation of
this chapter and which are recommended to the city council by the floodplain
administrator. The study, FIRMs and FBFMs are on file at Public Works
Department, 209 East Kern Street, Taft, CA 93268. (Ord. 767-08, 6-17-2008)
5-12-3-3: COMPLIANCE:
No structure or land shall hereafter be constructed, located, extended,
converted, or altered without full compliance with the terms of this chapter
and other applicable regulations. Violation of the requirements (including
violations of conditions and safeguards) shall constitute a misdemeanor.
Nothing herein shall prevent the city council from taking such lawful action as
is necessary to prevent or remedy any violation. (Ord. 767-08, 6-17-2008)
5-12-3-4: ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS:
This chapter is not intended to repeal, abrogate, or impair any existing
easements, covenants, or deed restrictions. However, where this chapter and
another ordinance, easement, covenant, or deed restriction conflict or overlap,
whichever imposes the more stringent restrictions shall prevail. (Ord. 767-08,
6-17-2008)
5-12-3-5: INTERPRETATION:
In the interpretation and application of this chapter, all provisions shall be:
   (A)   Considered as minimum requirements;
   (B)   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
   (C)   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under
state statutes. (Ord. 767-08, 6-17-2008)
5-12-3-6: WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY:
The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on scientific and engineering
considerations. Larger floods can and will occur on rare occasions. Flood
heights may be increased by manmade or natural causes. This chapter does not
imply that land outside the areas of special flood hazards or uses permitted
within such areas will be free from flooding or flood damages. This chapter
shall not create liability on the part of the city council, any officer or
employee thereof, the state of California, or the federal emergency management
agency, for any flood damages that result from reliance on this chapter or any
administrative decision lawfully made hereunder. (Ord. 767-08, 6-17-2008)
5-12-4: ADMINISTRATION:
5-12-4-1: DESIGNATION OF THE FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR:
The city engineer is hereby appointed to administer, implement, and enforce
this chapter by granting or denying development permits in accord with its
provisions. (Ord. 767-08, 6-17-2008)
5-12-4-2: DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR:
The duties and responsibilities of the floodplain administrator shall include,
but not be limited to, the following:
   (A)   Permit Review: Review all development permits to determine:
      1.   Permit requirements of this chapter have been satisfied, including
determination of substantial improvement and substantial damage of existing
structures;
      2.   All other required state and federal permits have been obtained;
      3.   The site is reasonably safe from flooding;
      4.   The proposed development does not adversely affect the carrying
capacity of areas where base flood elevations have been determined but a
floodway has not been designated. This means that the cumulative effect of the
proposed development when combined with all other existing and anticipated
development will not increase the water surface elevation of the base flood
more than one foot (1') at any point within the city of Taft; and
      5.   All letters of map revision (LOMRs) for flood control projects are
approved prior to the issuance of building permits. Building permits must not
be issued based on conditional letters of map revision (CLOMRs). Approved
CLOMRs allow construction of the proposed flood control project and land
preparation as specified in the "start of construction" definition.
   (B)   Development Of Substantial Improvement And Substantial Damage
Procedures:
      1.   Using FEMA publication FEMA 213, "Answers To Questions About
Substantially Damaged Buildings", develop detailed procedures for identifying
and administering requirements for substantial improvement and substantial
damage, to include defining "market value".
      2.   Assure procedures are coordinated with other departments/divisions
and implemented by community staff.
   (C)   Review, Use And Development Of Other Base Flood Data: When base flood
elevation data has not been provided in accordance with section
5-12-3-2 of this chapter, the floodplain administrator shall obtain, review,
and reasonably utilize any base flood elevation and floodway data available
from a federal or state agency, or other source, in order to administer section
5-12-5 of this chapter. A base flood elevation may be obtained using one of two
(2) methods from the FEMA publication, FEMA 265, "Managing Floodplain
Development In Approximate Zone A Areas - A Guide For Obtaining And Developing
Base (100-Year) Flood Elevations" dated July 1995.
   (D)   Notification Of Other Agencies:
      1.   Alteration Or Relocation Of A Watercourse:
         (a)   Notify adjacent communities and the California department of
water resources prior to alteration or relocation;
         (b)   Submit evidence of such notification to the federal emergency
management agency; and
         (c)   Assure that the flood carrying capacity within the altered or
relocated portion of said watercourse is maintained.
      2.   Base Flood Elevation Changes Due To Physical Alterations:
         (a)   Within six (6) months of information becoming available or
project completion, whichever comes first, the floodplain administrator shall
submit or assure that the permit applicant submits technical or scientific data
to FEMA for a letter of map revision (LOMR).
         (b)   All LOMRs for flood control projects are approved prior to the
issuance of building permits. Building permits must not be issued based on
conditional letters of map revision (CLOMRs). Approved CLOMRs allow
construction of the proposed flood control project and land preparation as
specified in the "start of construction" definition.
Such submissions are necessary so that upon confirmation of those physical
changes affecting flooding conditions, risk premium rates and floodplain
management requirements are based on current data.
      3.   Changes In Corporate Boundaries: Notify FEMA in writing whenever the
corporate boundaries have been modified by annexation or other means and
include a copy of a map of the community clearly delineating the new corporate
limits.
   (E)   Documentation Of Floodplain Development: Obtain and maintain for
public inspection and make available as needed the following:
      1.   Certification required by subsection
5-12-5-1(C)1 and section
5-12-5-4 of this chapter (lowest floor elevations);
      2.   Certification required by subsection
5-12-5-1(C)2 of this chapter (elevation or floodproofing of nonresidential
structures);
      3.   Certification required by subsection
5-12-5-1(C)3 of this chapter (wet floodproofing standard);
      4.   Certification of elevation required by subsection
5-12-5-3(A)3 of this chapter (subdivisions and other proposed development
standards);
      5.   Certification required by subsection
5-12-5-6(B) of this chapter (floodway encroachments); and
      6.   Maintain a record of all variance actions, including justification
for their issuance, and report such variances issued in its biennial report
submitted to the federal emergency management agency.
   (F)   Map Determination: Make interpretations where needed, as to the exact
location of the boundaries of the areas of special flood hazard, where there
appears to be a conflict between a mapped boundary and actual field conditions.
The person contesting the location of the boundary shall be given a reasonable
opportunity to appeal the interpretation as provided in section
5-12-4-4 of this chapter.
   (G)   Remedial Action: Take action to remedy violations of this chapter as
specified in section
5-12-3-3 of this chapter.
   (H)   Biennial Report: Complete and submit biennial report to FEMA.
   (I)   Planning: Assure community's general plan is consistent with
floodplain management objectives herein.
   (J)   Nonconversion Of Enclosed Areas Below The Lowest Floor: To ensure that
the areas below the BFE shall be used solely for parking vehicles, limited
storage, or access to the building and not be finished for use as human
habitation without first becoming fully compliant with this chapter in effect
at the time of conversion, the floodplain administrator shall:
      1.   Determine which applicants for new construction and/or substantial
improvements have fully enclosed areas below the lowest floor that are five
feet (5') or higher;
      2.   Enter into a "nonconversion agreement for construction within flood
hazard areas" or equivalent with the city of Taft. The agreement shall be
recorded with the Kern County recorder as a deed restriction. The nonconversion
agreement shall be in a form acceptable to the floodplain administrator and
county counsel; and
      3.   Have the authority to inspect any area of a structure below the base
flood elevation to ensure compliance upon prior notice of at least seventy two
(72) hours. (Ord. 767-08, 6-17-2008)
5-12-4-3: DEVELOPMENT PERMIT:
A development permit shall be obtained before any construction or other
development, including manufactured homes, within any area of special flood
hazard established in section
5-12-3-2 of this chapter. Application for a development permit shall be made on
forms furnished by the city of Taft. The applicant shall provide the following
minimum information:
   (A)   Plans in duplicate, drawn to scale, showing:
      1.   Location, dimensions, and elevation of the area in question,
existing or proposed structures, storage of materials and equipment and their
location;
      2.   Proposed locations of water supply, sanitary sewer, and other
utilities;
      3.   Grading information showing existing and proposed contours, any
proposed fill, and drainage facilities;
      4.   Location of the regulatory floodway when applicable;
      5.   Base flood elevation information as specified in section
5-12-3-2 or subsection
5-12-4-2(C) of this chapter;
      6.   Proposed elevation in relation to mean sea level, of the lowest
floor (including basement) of all structures; and
      7.   Proposed elevation in relation to mean sea level to which any
nonresidential structure will be floodproofed, as required in subsection
5-12-5-1(C)2 of this chapter and detailed in FEMA technical bulletin TB 3-93.
   (B)   Certification from a registered civil engineer or architect that the
nonresidential floodproofed building meets the floodproofing criteria in
subsection
5-12-5-1(C)2 of this chapter.
   (C)   For a crawl space foundation, location and total net area of
foundation openings as required in subsection
5-12-5-1(C)3 of this chapter and detailed in FEMA technical bulletins 1-93 and
7-93.
   (D)   Description of the extent to which any watercourse will be altered or
relocated as a result of proposed development.
   (E)   All appropriate certifications listed in subsection
5-12-4-2(E) of this chapter. (Ord. 767-08, 6-17-2008)
5-12-4-4: APPEALS:
The city council of the city of Taft shall hear and decide appeals when it is
alleged there is an error in any requirement, decision, or determination made
by the floodplain administrator in the enforcement or administration of this
chapter. (Ord. 767-08, 6-17-2008)
5-12-5: PROVISIONS FOR FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION:
5-12-5-1: STANDARDS OF CONSTRUCTION:
In all areas of special flood hazards the following standards are required:
   (A)   Anchoring: All new construction and substantial improvements of
structures, including manufactured homes, shall be adequately anchored to
prevent flotation, collapse or lateral movement of the structure resulting from
hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, including the effects of buoyancy.
   (B)   Construction Materials And Methods: All new construction and
substantial improvements of structures, including manufactured homes, shall be
constructed:
      1.   With flood resistant materials, and utility equipment resistant to
flood damage for areas below the base flood elevation;
      2.   Using methods and practices that minimize flood damage;
      3.   With electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing and air conditioning
equipment and other service facilities that are designed and/or located so as
to prevent water from entering or accumulating within the components during
conditions of flooding; and
      4.   Within zones AH or AO, so that there are adequate drainage paths
around structures on slopes to guide floodwaters around and away from proposed
structures.
   (C)   Elevation And Floodproofing:
      1.   Residential Construction: All new construction or substantial
improvements of residential structures shall have the lowest floor, including
basement:
         (a)   In AE, AH, A1-30 zones, elevated to or above the base flood
elevation.
         (b)   In an AO zone, elevated above the highest adjacent grade to a
height equal to or exceeding the depth number specified in feet on the FIRM, or
elevated at least two feet (2') above the highest adjacent grade if no depth
number is specified.
         (c)   In an A zone, without BFEs specified on the FIRM (unnumbered A
zone), elevated to or above the base flood elevation; as determined under
subsection
5-12-4-2(C) of this chapter.
Upon the completion of the structure, the elevation of the lowest floor,
including basement, shall be certified by a registered civil engineer or
licensed land surveyor, and verified by the community building inspector to be
properly elevated. Such certification and verification shall be provided to the
floodplain administrator.
      2.   Nonresidential Construction: All new construction or substantial
improvements of nonresidential structures shall either be elevated to conform
with subsection (C)1 of this section or:
         (a)   Be floodproofed, together with attendant utility and sanitary
facilities, below the elevation recommended under subsection (C)1 of this
section, so that the structure is watertight with walls substantially
impermeable to the passage of water;
         (b)   Have structural components capable of resisting hydrostatic and
hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy; and
         (c)   Be certified by a registered civil engineer or architect that
the standards of subsections (C)2(a) and (C)2(b) of this section are satisfied.
Such certification shall be provided to the floodplain administrator.
      3.   Flood Openings: All new construction and substantial improvements of
structures with fully enclosed areas below the lowest floor (excluding
basements) that are usable solely for parking of vehicles, building access or
storage, and which are subject to flooding, shall be designed to automatically
equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls by allowing for the entry
and exit of floodwater. Designs for meeting this requirement must meet the
following minimum criteria:
         (a)   For nonengineered openings:
            (1) Have a minimum of two (2) openings on different sides having a
total net area of not less than one square inch for every square foot of
enclosed area subject to flooding;
            (2) The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot
(1') above grade;
            (3) Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves or other
coverings or devices provided that they permit the automatic entry and exit of
floodwater; and
            (4) Buildings with more than one enclosed area must have openings
on exterior walls for each area to allow floodwater to directly enter; or
         (b)   Be certified by a registered civil engineer or architect.
      4.   Manufactured Homes:
         (a)   See section
5-12-5-4 of this chapter.
      5.   Garages And Low Cost Accessory Structures:
         (a)   Attached Garages:
            (1) A garage attached to a residential structure, constructed with
the garage floor slab below the BFE, must be designed to allow for the
automatic entry of floodwaters. See subsection (C)3 of this section. Areas of
the garage below the BFE must be constructed with flood resistant materials.
See subsection (B) of this section.
            (2) A garage attached to a nonresidential structure must meet the
above requirements or be dry floodproofed. For guidance on below grade parking
areas, see FEMA technical bulletin TB-6.
         (b)   Detached Garages And Accessory Structures:
            (1) "Accessory structures" used solely for parking (2 car detached
garages or smaller) or limited storage (small, low cost sheds), as defined in
section
5-12-2 of this chapter, may be constructed such that its floor is below the
base flood elevation (BFE), provided the structure is designed and constructed
in accordance with the following requirements:
               A. Use of the accessory structure must be limited to parking or
limited storage;
               B. The portions of the accessory structure located below the BFE
must be built using flood resistant materials;
               C. The accessory structure must be adequately anchored to
prevent flotation, collapse and lateral movement;
               D. Any mechanical and utility equipment in the accessory
structure must be elevated or floodproofed to or above the BFE;
               E. The accessory structure must comply with floodplain
encroachment provisions in section
5-12-5-6 of this chapter; and
               F. The accessory structure must be designed to allow for the
automatic entry of floodwaters in accordance with subsection (C)3 of this
section.
         (2) Detached garages and accessory structures not meeting the above
standards must be constructed in accordance with all applicable standards in
this section.
      6.   Crawl Space Construction: This subsection applies to buildings with
crawl spaces up to two feet (2') below grade. Below grade crawl space
construction in accordance with the requirements listed below will not be
considered basements:
         (a)   The building must be designed and adequately anchored to resist
flotation, collapse, and lateral movement of the structure resulting from
hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, including the effects of buoyancy. Crawl
space construction is not allowed in areas with flood velocities greater than
five feet (5') per second unless the design is reviewed by a qualified design
professional, such as a registered architect or professional engineer;
         (b)   The crawl space is an enclosed area below the BFE and, as such,
must have openings that equalize hydrostatic pressures by allowing for the
automatic entry and exit of floodwaters. For guidance on flood openings, see
FEMA technical bulletin 1-93;
         (c)   Crawl space construction is not permitted in V zones. Open pile
or column foundations that withstand storm surge and wave forces are required
in V zones;
         (d)   Portions of the building below the BFE must be constructed with
materials resistant to flood damage. This includes not only the foundation
walls of the crawl space used to elevate the building, but also any joists,
insulation, or other materials that extend below the BFE; and
         (e)   Any building utility systems within the crawl space must be
elevated above BFE or designed so that floodwaters cannot enter or accumulate
within the system components during flood conditions.
         (f)   Requirements for all below grade crawl space construction, in
addition to the above requirements, to include the following:
            (1) The interior grade of a crawl space below the BFE must not be
more than two feet (2') below the lowest adjacent exterior grade (LAG), shown
as D in figure 3 of technical bulletin 11-01;
            (2) The height of the below grade crawl space, measured from the
interior grade of the crawl space to the top of the crawl space foundation wall
must not exceed four feet (4') (shown as L in figure 3 of technical bulletin
11-01) at any point;
            (3) There must be an adequate drainage system that removes
floodwaters from the interior area of the crawl space within a reasonable
period of time after a flood event, not to exceed seventy two (72) hours; and
            (4) The velocity of floodwaters at the site should not exceed five
feet (5') per second for any crawl space. For velocities in excess of five feet
(5') per second, other foundation types should be used. (Ord. 767-08, 6-17-
2008)
5-12-5-2: STANDARDS FOR UTILITIES:
   (A)   All new and replacement water supply and sanitary sewage systems shall
be designed to minimize or eliminate:
      1.   Infiltration of floodwaters into the systems, and
      2.   Discharge from the systems into floodwaters.
   (B)   On site waste disposal systems shall be located to avoid impairment to
them, or contamination from them during flooding. (Ord. 767-08, 6-17-2008)
5-12-5-3: STANDARDS FOR SUBDIVISIONS AND OTHER PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT:
   (A)   All new subdivisions proposals and other proposed development,
including proposals for manufactured home parks and subdivisions, greater than
fifty (50) lots or five (5) acres, whichever is the lesser, shall:
      1.   Identify the special flood hazard areas (SFHA) and base flood
elevations (BFE).
      2.   Identify the elevations of lowest floors of all proposed structures
and pads on the final plans.
      3.   If the site is filled above the base flood elevation, the following
as built information for each structure shall be certified by a registered
civil engineer or licensed land surveyor and provided as part of an application
for a letter of map revision based on fill (LOMR-F) to the floodplain
administrator:
         (a)   Lowest floor elevation.
         (b)   Pad elevation.
         (c)   Lowest adjacent grade.
   (B)   All subdivision proposals and other proposed development shall be
consistent with the need to minimize flood damage.
   (C)   All subdivision proposals and other proposed development shall have
public utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical and water
systems located and constructed to minimize flood damage.
   (D)   All subdivisions and other proposed development shall provide adequate
drainage to reduce exposure to flood hazards. (Ord. 767-08, 6-17-2008)
5-12-5-4: STANDARDS FOR MANUFACTURED HOMES:
   (A)   All manufactured homes that are placed or substantially improved, on
sites located: 1) outside of a manufactured home park or subdivision; 2) in a
new manufactured home park or subdivision; 3) in an expansion to an existing
manufactured home park or subdivision; or 4) in an existing manufactured home
park or subdivision upon which a manufactured home has incurred "substantial
damage" as the result of a flood, shall:
      1.   Within zones A1-30, AH, and AE on the community's flood insurance
rate map, be elevated on a permanent foundation such that the lowest floor of
the manufactured home is elevated to or above the base flood elevation and be
securely fastened to an adequately anchored foundation system to resist
flotation, collapse, and lateral movement.
   (B)   All manufactured homes to be placed or substantially improved on sites
in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision within zones A1-30, AH and
AE on the community's flood insurance rate map that are not subject to the
provisions of subsection (A) of this section will be securely fastened to an
adequately anchored foundation system to resist flotation, collapse, and
lateral movement, and be elevated so that either the:
      1.   Lowest floor of the manufactured home is at or above the base flood
elevation; or
      2.   Manufactured home chassis is supported by reinforced piers or other
foundation elements of at least equivalent strength that are no less than
thirty six inches (36") in height above grade.
Upon the completion of the structure, the elevation of the lowest floor
including basement shall be certified by a registered civil engineer or
licensed land surveyor, and verified by the community building inspector to be
properly elevated. Such certification and verification shall be provided to the
floodplain administrator. (Ord. 767-08, 6-17-2008)
5-12-5-5: STANDARDS FOR RECREATIONAL VEHICLES:
   (A)   All recreational vehicles placed in zones A1-30, AH, and AE will
either:
      1.   Be on the site for fewer than one hundred eighty (180) consecutive
days; or
      2.   Be fully licensed and ready for highway use. A recreational vehicle
is ready for highway use if it is on its wheels or jacking system, is attached
to the site only by quick disconnect type utilities and security devices, and
has no permanently attached additions; or
      3.   Meet the permit requirements of section
5-12-4-3 of this chapter and the elevation and anchoring requirements for
manufactured homes in subsection
5-12-5-4(A) of this chapter. (Ord. 767-08, 6-17-2008)
5-12-5-6: FLOODWAYS:
Since floodways are an extremely hazardous area due to the velocity of
floodwaters which carry debris, potential projectiles, and erosion potential,
the following provisions apply:
   (A)   Until a regulatory floodway is adopted, no new construction,
substantial development, or other development (including fill) shall be
permitted within zones A1-30 and AE, unless it is demonstrated that the
cumulative effect of the proposed development, when combined with all other
development, will not increase the water surface elevation of the base flood
more than one foot (1') at any point within the city of Taft.
   (B)   Within an adopted regulatory floodway, the city of Taft shall prohibit
encroachments, including fill, new construction, substantial improvements, and
other development, unless certification by a registered civil engineer is
provided demonstrating that the proposed encroachment shall not result in any
increase in flood levels during the occurrence of the base flood discharge.
   (C)   If subsections (A) and (B) of this section are satisfied, all new
construction, substantial improvement, and other proposed new development shall
comply with all other applicable flood hazard reduction provisions of section
5-12-5 of this chapter. (Ord. 767-08, 6-17-2008)
5-12-6: VARIANCE PROCEDURE:
5-12-6-1: NATURE OF VARIANCES:
   (A)   The issuance of a variance is for floodplain management purposes only.
Insurance premium rates are determined by statute according to actuarial risk
and will not be modified by the granting of a variance.
   (B)   The variance criteria set forth in this section are based on the
general principle of zoning law that variances pertain to a piece of property
and are not personal in nature. A variance may be granted for a parcel of
property with physical characteristics so unusual that complying with the
requirements of this chapter would create an exceptional hardship to the
applicant or the surrounding property owners. The characteristics must be
unique to the property and not be shared by adjacent parcels. The unique
characteristic must pertain to the land itself, not to the structure, its
inhabitants, or the property owners.
   (C)   It is the duty of the city council to help protect its citizens from
flooding. This need is so compelling and the implications of the cost of
insuring a structure built below flood level are so serious that variances from
the flood elevation or from other requirements in this chapter are quite rare.
The long term goal of preventing and reducing flood loss and damage can only be
met if variances are strictly limited. Therefore, the variance guidelines
provided in this chapter are more detailed and contain multiple provisions that
must be met before a variance can be properly granted. The criteria are
designed to screen out those situations in which alternatives other than a
variance are more appropriate. (Ord. 767-08, 6-17-2008)
5-12-6-2: CONDITIONS FOR VARIANCES:
   (A)   Generally, variances may be issued for new construction, substantial
improvement, and other proposed new development to be erected on a lot of one-
half (1/2) acre or less in size contiguous to and surrounded by lots with
existing structures constructed below the base flood level, providing that the
procedures of sections
5-12-4 and
5-12-5 of this chapter have been fully considered. As the lot size increases
beyond one-half (1/2) acre, the technical justification required for issuing
the variance increases.
   (B)   Variances may be issued for the repair or rehabilitation of "historic
structures" (as defined in section
5-12-2 of this chapter) upon a determination that the proposed repair or
rehabilitation will not preclude the structure's continued designation as a
historic structure and the variance is the minimum necessary to preserve the
historic character and design of the structure.
   (C)   Variances shall not be issued within any mapped regulatory floodway if
any increase in flood levels during the base flood discharge would result.
   (D)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the variance
is the "minimum necessary" considering the flood hazard, to afford relief.
"Minimum necessary" means to afford relief with a minimum of deviation from the
requirements of this chapter. For example, in the case of variances to an
elevation requirement, this means the city council need not grant permission
for the applicant to build at grade, or even to whatever elevation the
applicant proposes, but only to that elevation which the city council believes
will both provide relief and preserve the integrity of the local ordinance.
   (E)   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written
notice over the signature of a community official that:
      1.   The issuance of a variance to construct a structure below the base
flood level will result in increased premium rates for flood insurance up to
amounts as high as twenty five dollars ($25.00) for one hundred dollars
($100.00) of insurance coverage, and
      2.   Such construction below the base flood level increases risks to life
and property. It is recommended that a copy of the notice shall be recorded by
the floodplain administrator in the office of the Kern County recorder and
shall be recorded in a manner so that it appears in the chain of title of the
affected parcel of land.
   (F)   The floodplain administrator will maintain a record of all variance
actions, including justification for their issuance, and report such variances
issued in its biennial report submitted to the federal emergency management
agency. (Ord. 767-08, 6-17-2008)
5-12-6-3: APPEAL BOARD:
   (A)   In passing upon requests for variances, the city council shall
consider all technical evaluations, all relevant factors, standards specified
in other sections of this chapter, and the:
      1.   Danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the injury of
others;
      2.   Danger of life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;
      3.   Susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to flood
damage and the effect of such damage on the existing individual owner and
future owners of the property;
      4.   Importance of the services provided by the proposed facility to the
community;
      5.   Necessity to the facility of a waterfront location, where
applicable;
      6.   Availability of alternative locations for the proposed use which are
not subject to flooding or erosion damage;
      7.   Compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development;
      8.   Relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan and
floodplain management program for that area;
      9.   Safety of access to the property in time of flood for ordinary and
emergency vehicles;
      10.   Expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise, and sediment
transport of the floodwaters expected at the site; and
      11.   Costs of providing governmental services during and after flood
conditions, including maintenance and repair of public utilities and facilities
such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water system, and streets and bridges.
   (B)   Variances shall only be issued upon a:
      1.   Showing of good and sufficient cause;
      2.   Determination that failure to grant the variance would result in
exceptional "hardship" to the applicant; and
      3.   Determination that the granting of a variance will not result in
increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety, or extraordinary
public expense, create a nuisance (see "public safety and nuisance"), cause
"fraud and victimization" of the public, or conflict with existing local laws
or ordinances.
   (C)   Variances may be issued for new construction, substantial improvement,
and other proposed new development necessary for the conduct of a functionally
dependent use provided that the provisions of this subsection (C) and
subsections (A), (B) and (D) of this section are satisfied and that the
structure or other development is protected by methods that minimize flood
damages during the base flood and does not result in additional threats to
public safety and does not create a public nuisance.
   (D)   Upon consideration of the factors of subsection
5-12-6-2(A) of this chapter and the purposes of this chapter, the city council
may attach such conditions to the granting of variances as it deems necessary
to further the purposes of this chapter. (Ord. 767-08, 6-17-2008)
CHAPTER 13
RESIDENTIAL CODE
SECTION:
5-13-1: Short Title
5-13-2: Application Of Code
5-13-3: Adoption Of Code
5-13-1: SHORT TITLE:
This chapter may be cited as the TAFT RESIDENTIAL CODE. (Ord. 826-17, 6-20-
2017)
5-13-2: APPLICATION OF CODE:
The Taft Residential Code shall apply to new construction, relocated buildings
and to any alterations, repairs or reconstruction of one and two family
dwellings and town houses less than three (3) stories above grade in the
incorporated territory of the City of Taft. (Ord. 826-17, 6-20-2017)
5-13-3: ADOPTION OF CODE:
These regulations known as the “California Residential Code,” 2022 Edition,
California Code of Regulations, Title 24, Part 2.5, which incorporate by
adoption the 2021 International Residential Code, with necessary California
amendments, including all appendices, as published by the International Code
Council, is hereby adopted and made part of this Chapter by reference with the
same force and effect as if fully set forth herein. (Ord. 826-17, 6-20-2017;
amd. Ord. 834-20, 1-20-2020; Ord. 851-23, 1-17-2023)
CHAPTER 14
ENERGY CODE
SECTION:
5-14-1: Short Title
5-14-2: Application Of Code
5-14-3: Adoption Of Code
5-14-1: SHORT TITLE:
This chapter may be cited as the TAFT ENERGY CODE. (Ord. 826-17, 6-20-2017)
5-14-2: APPLICATION OF CODE:
The Taft Energy Code shall apply to all new construction, additions and
alterations within the City. (Ord. 826-17, 6-20-2017; amd. Ord. 834-20, 1-20-
2020; Ord. 851-23, 1-17-2023)
5-14-3: ADOPTION OF CODE:
These regulations known as the "California Energy Code," 2022 Edition,
California Code of Regulations, Title 24, Part 6, as published by the
International Code Council, is hereby adopted and made part of this Chapter by
reference with the same force and effect as if fully set forth herein. (Ord.
826-17, 6-20-2017; amd. Ord. 834-20, 1-20-2020; Ord. 851-23, 1-17-2023)
CHAPTER 15
HISTORICAL BUILDING CODE
SECTION:
5-15-1: Short Title
5-15-2: Application Of Code
5-15-3: Adoption Of Code
5-15-1: SHORT TITLE:
This chapter may be cited as the TAFT HISTORICAL BUILDING CODE. (Ord. 826-17,
6-20-2017; amd. Ord. 834-20, 1-20-2020)
5-15-2: APPLICATION OF CODE:
The Taft Historical Building Code shall apply to all issues regarding Code
compliance for qualified historical buildings within the City. (Ord. 826-17, 6-
20-2017; amd. Ord. 834-20, 1-20-2020)
5-15-3: ADOPTION OF CODE:
These regulations known as the "California Historical Building Code," 2022
Edition, California Code of Regulations, Title 24, Part 8, as published by the
International Code Council, is hereby adopted and made part of this Chapter by
reference with the same force and effect as if fully set forth herein. (Ord.
826-17, 6-20-2017; amd. Ord. 834-20, 1-20-2020; Ord. 851-23, 1-17-2023)
CHAPTER 16
EXISTING BUILDING CODE
SECTION:
5-16-1: Short Title
5-16-2: Application Of Code
5-16-3: Adoption Of Code
5-16-1: SHORT TITLE:
This chapter may be cited as the TAFT EXISTING BUILDING CODE. (Ord. 826-17, 6-
20-2017)
5-16-2: APPLICATION OF CODE:
The Taft Existing Building Code shall apply to repair, alteration, change of
occupancy, addition to and relocation of all existing buildings within the
City. (Ord. 826-17, 6-20-2017)
5-16-3: ADOPTION OF CODE:
These regulations known as the "California Existing Building Code," 2022
Edition, California Code of Regulations, Title 24, Part 10, which incorporate
by adoption the 2021 International Existing Building Code, with necessary
California amendments, including all appendices and resources, as published by
the International Code Council, is hereby adopted and made part of this Chapter
by reference with the same force and effect as if fully set forth herein. (Ord.
826-17, 6-20-2017; amd. Ord. 834-20, 1-20-2020; Ord. 851-23, 1-17-2023)
CHAPTER 17
GREEN BUILDING CODE
SECTION:
5-17-1: Short Title
5-17-2: Application Of Code
5-17-3: Adoption Of Code
5-17-1: SHORT TITLE:
This chapter may be cited as the TAFT GREEN BUILDING CODE. (Ord. 826-17, 6-20-
2017)
5-17-2: APPLICATION OF CODE:
The Taft Green Building Standards Code shall apply to all newly constructed
buildings and structures within the City. (Ord. 826-17, 6-20-2017)
5-17-3: ADOPTION OF CODE:
These regulations known as the "California Green Building Standards Code," 2022
Edition, California Code of Regulations, Title 24, Part 11, as published by the
International Code Council, not including Appendix Chapters A4, A5 and A6.1, is
hereby adopted and made part of this Chapter by reference with the same force
and effect as if fully set forth herein. (Ord. 826-17, 6-20-2017; amd. Ord.
834-20, 1-20-2020; Ord. 851-23, 1-17-2023)
CHAPTER 18
REFERENCED STANDARDS CODE
SECTION:
5-18-1: Short Title
5-18-2: Application Of Code
5-18-3: Adoption Of Code
5-18-1: SHORT TITLE:
This chapter may be cited as the TAFT REFERENCED STANDARDS CODE. (Ord. 826-17,
6-20-2017)
5-18-2: APPLICATION OF CODE:
The Taft Referenced Standards Code shall apply to public schools and State
owned or leased buildings. (Ord. 826-17, 6-20-2017)
5-18-3: ADOPTION OF CODE:
That code known as the 2022 California Referenced Standards Code of the
California Code of Regulations Title 24, Part 12, as published by the
International Code Council, is hereby adopted and made part of this Chapter by
reference with the same force and effect as if fully set forth herein. (Ord.
826-17, 6-20-2017; amd. Ord. 834-20, 1-20-2020; Ord. 851-23, 1-17-2023)
CHAPTER 19
ADMINISTRATIVE CODE
SECTION:
5-19-1: Short Title
5-19-2: Application Of Code
5-19-3: Adoption Of Code
5-19-1: SHORT TITLE:
This chapter may be cited as the TAFT ADMINISTRATIVE CODE. (Ord. 826-17, 6-20-
2017)
5-19-2: APPLICATION OF CODE:
The Taft Administrative Code shall be used in conjunction with the California
Code of Regulations, parts 2 - 12. (Ord. 826-17, 6-20-2017)
5-19-3: ADOPTION OF CODE:
That code known as the 2022 California Administrative Code of the California
Code of Regulations, Part 1, as published by the International Code Council, is
hereby adopted and made part of this Chapter by reference with the same force
and effect as if fully set forth herein. (Ord. 826-17, 6-20-2017; amd. Ord.
834-20, 1-20-2020; Ord. 851-23, 1-17-2023)
TITLE VI
PLANNING AND ZONING
CHAPTER 1
ADMINISTRATION
SECTION:
6-1-1: Purpose And Intent
6-1-2: Authority
6-1-3: Applicability
6-1-4: Enforcement
6-1-5: General Penalty
6-1-6: Conflicting Regulations
6-1-7: Clarification Of Ambiguities
6-1-8: City To Be Held Harmless
6-1-9: Determination Of Similar Use
6-1-10: General Plan
6-1-11: Zone Districts
6-1-12: Planning Commission
6-1-13: Planning Agency
6-1-14: Project Assistance Team
6-1-15: Planning Director
6-1-16: Floodplain Management
6-1-17: Challenges To City Actions
6-1-18: Severance
6-1-19: Definitions
6-1-1: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
The city council has established these standards, guidelines, and procedures to
protect and promote the public health, safety, convenience and welfare of
present and future citizens of the city, specifically to:
   (A)   Implement the goals, objectives, policies and programs of the general
plan, and to manage future growth and change in accordance with that plan;
   (B)   Protect the physical, social and economic stability and vitality of
residential, commercial, industrial, public, institutional and open space uses
within the city to assure their orderly development;
   (C)   Reduce or eliminate hazards to the public resulting from potentially
inappropriate location, use or design of buildings and other improvements;
   (D)   Attain the physical, social and economic advantages resulting from
comprehensive and orderly land use and resource planning. (Ord. 768-08, 8-19-
2008)
6-1-2: AUTHORITY:
The authority for the regulations contained in this title is based on section
7, article XI of the California Constitution, the provisions of the California
planning and zoning law 1 which provide for the regulation of the intensity of
land use and the adoption of standards for the regulation of population
density, and the police power granted to municipalities by the laws of the
state of California. (Ord. 768-08, 8-19-2008)
 
Notes
1 1. GOV title 7, division 1.
6-1-3: APPLICABILITY:
All land, buildings and structures within the incorporated portions of the city
shall be used only as hereinafter provided. No use of land, and no use,
construction, maintenance, operation, reconstruction or enlargement of any
building or structure shall be allowed unless permitted under the express
provisions of this title or by other applicable ordinances of the city.
   (A)   Private Projects:
      1.   No land, building or structure shall be used, constructed, altered
or maintained, except in conformance with the provisions of this title.
      2.   No use that requires a permit or approval under the provisions of
this title shall be established or operated until the permit or approval is
finally granted, and all conditions of the permit or approval have been
complied with.
      3.   No use that requires a permit or approval under the provisions of
this title shall be established or operated in violation of, or contrary to,
any terms and conditions of the granted permit or approval.
      4.   No building or structure, or any part of an existing building or
structure, may be constructed or altered in such a way as to cross a property
line.
   (B)   Public Projects: Unless otherwise exempted, federal, state, county,
city and any other governmental projects shall be subject to the provisions of
this title, including projects operated by any combination of these agencies,
or by a private person for the benefit of any such governmental agency.
   (C)   Legal Procedure: Any building or structure erected or maintained, or
any use of property contrary to the provisions of this title, is hereby
declared to be unlawful and a public nuisance, and the city attorney, code
enforcement officer, district attorney or other authorized official may
immediately commence action or actions, proceeding or proceedings for the
abatement, removal and enjoinment thereof, in the manner provided by law; and
may take such other steps, and may apply to such court or courts as may have
jurisdiction to grant such relief to abate or remove such building, structure
or use and restrain and enjoin any person from setting up, erecting or
maintaining such building or structure, or use of any property contrary to the
provisions of this title (it shall be the right and duty of every citizen to
participate and assist city officials in the enforcement of the provisions of
this title).
   (D)   Subdivisions:
      1.   The provisions of this title relating to subdivisions shall be
controlled by section 66499.30 et seq., of the subdivision map act (map act)
and title X, "Subdivisions", of this code.
      2.   The provisions of the city subdivision ordinance relating to the
enforcement and judicial review of subdivisions, as defined in the map act,
shall not apply to:
         (a)   Short term leases pursuant to Government Code section 66411 of
the map act.
         (b)   The exclusions to the provisions of the map act pursuant to
Government Code section 66412 therein.
         (c)   The financing and leasing of commercial and industrial buildings
pursuant to Government Code section 66412.1 of the map act.
         (d)   The construction, financing and leasing of dwelling unit types
pursuant to Government Code section 66412.2 of the map act.
         (e)   Small removable commercial buildings pursuant to Government Code
section 66412.5 of the map act.
         (f)   Parcels created prior to March 4, 1972, pursuant to Government
Code sections 66412.7 and 66412.8 of the map act.
         (g)   Subdivisions previously established pursuant to the provisions
of Government Code section 66412.7 of the map act.
         (h)   The conveyance of land to a public entity for right of way
pursuant to Government Code section 66426.5 of the map act. (Ord. 768-08, 8-19-
2008)
6-1-4: ENFORCEMENT:
   (A)   Officials Designated: The city manager, city attorney, district
attorney, planning director, code enforcement officer, building official,
public works director, or their designee, any duly authorized law enforcement
officer, and any official charged with the issuance of licenses and permits
shall enforce the provisions of this title.
   (B)   Issuance Of Permits, Certificates, Licenses: All officials and
employees of the city, vested with the authority or duty to issue permits,
shall confirm to the provisions of this title and shall not issue a permit,
certificate or license for uses, purposes, buildings or structures in conflict
with the provisions of this title. Any such permit, certificate or license
issued in conflict with the provisions of this title shall be null and void.
   (C)   Notice Of Violation: Whenever an authorized official finds that a
violation of this title exists on any property located within the city, he or
she shall notify the property owner on which the violation is located and
direct that the violation be abated in a manner consistent with this title
(zoning ordinance).
   (D)   Remedies: All remedies provided for herein shall be cumulative and not
exclusive. The conviction and punishment of any person hereunder shall not
relieve such person from the responsibility of correcting prohibited conditions
or removing prohibited buildings, structures or improvements, nor prevent the
enforced correction or removal thereof.
   (E)   Continuing Violations: A continuing violation of this title is deemed
a separate violation of this code for each and every day that such violation
exists. (Ord. 768-08, 8-19-2008)
6-1-5: GENERAL PENALTY:
Except as otherwise specifically provided in this title, any person violating
any provisions or failing to comply with any of the mandated requirements of
this title (zoning ordinance) is guilty of an infraction. The general penalty
for an infraction shall be subject to the provisions of sections
1-1-11,
1-1-12, and
1-1-13 of this code. (Ord. 782-10, 4-6-2010)
6-1-6: CONFLICTING REGULATIONS:
The provisions of this title are not intended to interfere or void any
easements or legally established covenants or other existing agreements that
are more restrictive than the provisions of this title. Except where the
express provisions of this title or the context hereof amend any existing
ordinance, nothing in this title shall be deemed to repeal any other ordinances
relating to the properties and areas affected hereby.
All federally owned parcels affected by this title are subject to applicable
federal laws, rules and policies. In the event a conflict exists between
federal laws, rules and policies, and this title, the bureau of land management
(BLM), in matters affecting mineral rights, will determine which shall prevail.
Where federally owned mineral rights underlie a privately owned parcel, the
BLM, or its mineral lessee, has the right of entry and to use as much of the
surface as is reasonably necessary to sustain operations. Federal mineral
rights cannot be declared abandoned or "not likely to be developed" as is
commonly done in the private sector. Upon receipt of a proposal affecting
private surface overlying federal mineral estates, the local authority and/or
any party proposing an action on such surface land, is to contact the
Bakersfield BLM office before proceeding. BLM should be contacted at the
earliest stage possible so that conflicts, if any, can be minimized. In some
cases, access to BLM managed minerals can be ensured by the use of "drilling
islands" described in chapter 3, "Special Zone Districts", of this title. (Ord.
768-08, 8-19-2008)
6-1-7: CLARIFICATION OF AMBIGUITIES:
If ambiguity arises concerning the appropriate classification of a particular
use within the meaning and intent of this title, or if ambiguity exists with
respect to matters of height, yard requirements, area requirements or district
boundaries as set forth herein, it shall be the duty of the planning director
to ascertain all pertinent facts and issue an interpretation of such ambiguity.
The planning director's interpretation, which shall be documented along with an
explanation of said interpretation, is subject to the appeal process as defined
by section
6-2-19 of this title. (Ord. 768-08, 8-19-2008)
6-1-8: CITY TO BE HELD HARMLESS:
Any person, organization or entity who obtains or files an application to
obtain a permit or approval pursuant to this title shall hold the city harmless
from any liability, including any claims of the applicant arising out of the
issuance of the permit or approval, or the denial thereof, or arising out of
any action by any person seeking to have a granted permit or approval held void
by a court of law. (Ord. 768-08, 8-19-2008)
6-1-9: DETERMINATION OF SIMILAR USE:
   (A)   Application: When a proposed use of property is not expressly
authorized as a permitted use, or as a conditional use by the regulations of
the applicable zone district, an application may be submitted to the planning
department for a land use interpretation to determine whether or not the
proposed use is similar to those uses permitted or conditionally permitted in
the applicable zone district.
   (B)   Basis For Determination Of Similar Use: The determination of similar
use shall constitute a ministerial action. In making a determination of similar
use, the planning director, or the planning commission acting on referral or
appeal, shall determine that a proposed use is similar to a use or uses
expressly authorized in the applicable zoning district or districts if the
proposed use meets the following criteria:
      1.   The use resembles or is of the same basic nature as a use expressly
authorized in the applicable zone district in terms of the following:
         (a)   The activities involved in or equipment or materials employed in
the use.
         (b)   The effects of the use on the surrounding area, such as traffic
impacts, noise, dust, odors, vibrations and appearance.
      2.   The use is consistent with the stated purpose of the applicable
district. (Ord. 768-08, 8-19-2008)
6-1-10: GENERAL PLAN:
The city shall adopt and maintain a general plan in accordance with the
requirements of California Government Code section 65000 et seq., and
applicable general plan guidelines prepared by the California office of
planning and research.
   (A)   Consistency With The General Plan:
      1.   No use of land, buildings or structures for which an application is
required pursuant to this title is to be approved for processing under this
title unless it is consistent with the general plan or a concurrent general
plan amendment request. In any case where there is a conflict in regulations
between this title and the general plan, the general plan shall prevail.
      2.   All land divisions within the city and changes or amendments to land
use classifications, districts or regulations, and conditional use permits,
variances, development agreements, site plans and other permits and approvals
shall be consistent with the general plan and all applicable specific plans.
      3.   A proposed use or approval is consistent with the general plan when
the following conditions exist:
         (a)   The proposed use is allowed in the land use designation in which
the use is located, as shown by the land use map, and as described in the text
of the general plan;
         (b)   The proposed use is in conformance with the goals, objectives,
policies, programs and guidelines of the elements of the general plan and the
intent thereof; and
         (c)   The proposed use is to be established and maintained in a manner
which is consistent with the elements of the general plan and all applicable
provisions contained therein.
   (B)   Determinations Of Consistency With The General Plan: The planning
director shall have the responsibility to prepare reports and make
determinations as to the conformity of applications and requests pursuant to
this title.
   (C)   Administration Of The General Plan: The planning director shall have
the responsibility to investigate and make recommendations to the planning
commission and/or city council regarding reasonable and practical means for
implementing the general plan or any element thereof, so that it will serve as
an effective guide for orderly growth and development, preservation and
conservation of open space and natural resources, and for the efficient and
effective expenditure of public funds relating to the subjects addressed in the
general plan. (Ord. 768-08, 8-19-2008)
6-1-11: ZONE DISTRICTS:
   (A)   Districts Created: In order to provide a uniform basis for regulating
the use of land, buildings and structures, and to establish minimum site
development regulations and performance standards applicable to sites within
the city, the city is hereby divided into the following zone districts:
Community facilities (CF) zone district
Airport approach height overlay (H) zone district
Drilling island (DI) zone district
Petroleum extraction overlay (PE) zone district
Residential suburban (RS) zone district
Single-family residential (R-1) zone district
Medium density residential (R-2) zone district
High density residential (R-3) zone district
Mixed use (MU) zone district
General commercial (GC) zone district
Industrial (I) zone district
Agricultural (A) zone district
Natural resources (NR) zone district
Specific Plan (SP) zone district
   (B)   Determination Of Zone District Boundaries:
      1.   Wherever a lot or site is divided by a boundary between differing
districts, the regulations applicable within each district shall apply to each
portion of the site within that district.
      2.   The following rules shall apply for determining the boundaries of
any district on the zoning map:
         (a)   Where the boundaries are indicated as approximately following
street and alley lines or other identifiable property or boundary lines, such
lines shall be constructed to be the district boundary. Where boundaries are
indicated as within a street or alley, the centerline thereof shall be
construed to be the district boundary;
         (b)   In unsubdivided property, where a district boundary divides a
lot, the location of the district boundary, unless the same shall be indicated
by dimensions, shall be determined by use of the scale appearing on the zoning
map;
         (c)   A symbol or symbols indicating the classification of property on
the zoning map shall in each instance apply to the whole of the areas within
the zoning district boundaries;
         (d)   Where the public street, alley or right of way is officially
vacated or abandoned, the regulations applicable to abutting property shall
apply to such vacated or abandoned street, alley or right of way adjacent to
that abutting property, as determined by the planning director.
   (C)   Zoning Maps: The boundaries of the zone districts established by this
title are not included in this title but are shown on the official zoning maps
maintained by the planning department. The official zoning maps, and all
notations, references and other information shown thereon, shall be as much a
part of this title as if the matters and information set forth on such maps
were all fully described herein. (Ord. 768-08, 8-19-2008; amd. Ord. 849-22, 12-
6-2022)
6-1-12: PLANNING COMMISSION:
Pursuant to the provisions of California Government Code section 65100 and city
ordinance 608, 3-1-1994, there is established a planning commission for the
city.
   (A)   Composition: The planning commission shall consist of five (5) members
who shall be appointed by the city council.
   (B)   Duties: The planning commission shall perform the duties and shall
have all the rights, powers and privileges specified and provided by the
ordinances and resolutions of the city and/or by state law. (Ord. 768-08, 8-19-
2008)
6-1-13: PLANNING AGENCY:
Pursuant to California Government Code section 65100, the planning agency for
the city shall consist of the city council, planning commission and city staff
acting under authority of this title. (Ord. 768-08, 8-19-2008)
6-1-14: PROJECT ASSISTANCE TEAM:
   (A)   Created: Pursuant to California Government Code section 65100, a
project assistance team (PAT) is hereby established to act in a technical
capacity for the planning agency.
   (B)   Composition: The project assistance team shall consist of the
following members or their duly authorized representatives: the public works
director, the planning director, the building official, and others as needed.
The chairperson of the project assistance team shall be appointed by the city
manager.
   (C)   Powers And Duties: It shall be the duty of the project assistance team
to review and make recommendations to the planning agency regarding any of the
following:
      1.   All tentative land division maps, including those specifically
exempted from the requirement for a final map.
      2.   Any land use application related to a development project, such as a
site plan review, conditional use permit, variance, zone change, specific plan
amendment or general plan amendment.
      3.   Any other project or action deemed by the planning agency to require
review and recommendation by the project assistance team.
      4.   The project assistance team shall review and identify technical
design features which are necessary to ensure adequate public health, safety
and welfare, including adequate traffic and pedestrian circulation, proper
grading and erosion control, including the prevention of sedimentation or flood
and drainage damage to off site property. In addition, the project assistance
team shall consider the adequacy of existing public facilities and services and
any potential fire hazards that may pose a threat to life, property and the
surrounding environment.
   (D)   Meetings And Rules Of Procedures: The project assistance team
chairperson shall establish and maintain meeting dates and rules of procedure
for the project assistance team. Such dates and procedures shall be available
to the public in appropriate formats and locations to advise interested persons
or groups. (Ord. 768-08, 8-19-2008; amd. Ord. 849-22, 12-6-2022)
6-1-15: PLANNING DIRECTOR:
This title shall be administered by the planning director, whose
responsibilities include the following functions, which may be carried out by
authorized subordinate employees. The planning director shall receive and
review all applications for permits and approvals pursuant to this title.
Processing includes:
   (A)   The certification of completed applications;
   (B)   Responsibility for completion of appropriate documentation under the
California Environmental Quality Act;
   (C)   The establishment of a permanent file;
   (D)   Giving and posting of public notices;
   (E)   Collection of applicable fees;
   (F)   Preparation of reports;
   (G)   Processing of appeals;
   (H)   Presentation of staff reports to the Planning Commission and the City
Council; and
   (I)   Interpret the zoning title. (Ord. 768-08, 8-19-2008)
6-1-16: FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT:
The provisions of chapter 13, "Performance Standards", of this title shall
apply. (Ord. 768-08, 8-19-2008)
6-1-17: CHALLENGES TO CITY ACTIONS:
Any action or proceeding to attack, review, set aside or annul any decision of
the City pursuant to this title shall not be maintained by any person unless
the action or proceeding is commenced within ninety (90) calendar days after
the date of the decision as provided in California Code of Civil Procedure
section 1094.6. (Ord. 768-08, 8-19-2008)
6-1-18: SEVERANCE:
If any section, subsection, subpart or provision of this title or the
application thereof to any person, property or circumstance is held invalid,
the remainder of this title and the application of such to other persons,
properties or circumstances shall not be affected thereby. (Ord. 768-08, 8-19-
2008)
6-1-19: DEFINITIONS:
The following definitions and those set forth throughout this title shall apply
when interpreting the intent or meaning of the requirements and guidelines of
this title:
ABANDONMENT: Shall be defined by the Division of Oil, Gas, and Geothermal
Resources as it relates to the division's influence.
ABC: The state Department of Alcoholic Beverage Control per division 9 of the
state Business and Professions Code.
ABC BEER: Any alcoholic beverage obtained by the fermentation of any infusion
or decoction of barley, malt, hops, or any other similar product, or any
combination thereof in water, per section 23006 of the Business and Professions
Code.
ABC BONA FIDE PUBLIC EATING PLACE: A place of business that is regularly and in
a bona fide manner used and kept open for the serving of meals to guests for
compensation and which has suitable kitchen facilities connected therewith,
containing conveniences for cooking an assortment of foods which may be
required for ordinary meals, the kitchen of which must be kept in a sanitary
condition with the proper amount of refrigeration for keeping of food on said
premises and must comply with all the regulations of the local department of
health per sections 23038, 23038.1, 23038.2 and 23038.3 of the Business and
Professions Code.
ABC DISTILLED SPIRITS: An alcoholic beverage obtained by the distillation of
fermented agricultural products, including all dilutions and mixtures thereof
per section 23005 of the Business and Professions Code.
ABC LICENSEE: Any person holding a license, a permit, a certification, or any
other authorization issued by the ABC.
ABC OFF-SALE: An ABC retailer that sells packaged alcoholic beverages,
including beer, wine and distilled spirits for consumption off the premises
where sold.
ABC ON-SALE: An ABC retailer that sells alcoholic beverages, including beer,
wine and distilled spirits for consumption on the premises where sold.
ABC PUBLIC PREMISES: A licensed premises that is maintained and operated for
the selling or serving of alcoholic beverages to the public for consumption on
the premises, and in which food shall not be sold or served to the public as in
a bona fide public eating place, and in which minors are not allowed to enter
and remain per section 23039 of the Business and Professions Code.
ABC RETAILER: Any on- or off-sale licensee per section 23023 of the Business
and Professions Code.
ABC WINE: The product obtained from normal alcoholic fermentation of the juice
of sound ripe grapes or other agricultural products per section 23007 of the
Business and Professions Code.
ABUTTING, ADJOINING, ADJACENT: Having district boundaries or lot lines in
common; however, where properties would have had lot lines in common, except
for the existence of an alley, the lot lines of those properties are considered
to be abutting, adjoining or adjacent.
ACCESS CORRIDOR: A portion of a site providing access from a street and having
a dimension less than the required lot width. The area of an access corridor
shall not be included in determining the lot area.
ACCESS RIGHTS: The right, claims, title or privilege of access by pedestrians
or vehicles to a public road or way.
ACCESS ROAD: A graded road with such improvements and such width as required in
the City's subdivision ordinance and the "Subdivision and Engineering Design
Manual" which provides access from a division of land to an existing maintained
street or highway.
ACCESSORY STRUCTURE: Any subordinate structure or portions of the main
structure, the use of which is incidental to that of the main structure on the
same lot or premises, and which is used exclusively by the occupants of the
main structure. An accessory structure may be erected only after the principal
structure is established.
ACCESSORY USE: Any use customarily incidental to, related and clearly
subordinate to a principal use established on the same lot or premises. An
accessory use may be established only after the principal use is established.
ACREAGE (GROSS): The total fee ownership of a parcel or land area, including
any easements, but excluding any existing offers of dedication, dedications or
rights of way.
ACREAGE (NET): The land area that remains after dedication of ultimate rights
of way for: a) exterior boundary sheets; b) flood control rights of way; and c)
public parks developed to meet minimum standards. Major utility easements and
rights of way may not be counted as adjusted net acreage. Areas devoted to park
land or active recreational uses may be counted as adjusted net acreage only if
such public facilities are proposed over and above the city's minimum park land
requirements.
ACTIVE RECREATIONAL USES: Facilities occurring in a planned development or
multiple-family project, which are designed to provide individual or group
activities of an active nature, including, but not limited to, sports fields,
court games, swimming pools, children's play areas, picnic areas, golf courses
and recreational community gardening. Active recreational uses do not include
natural open space, nature study areas, open space for buffer areas, riding and
hiking trails, watercourses or drainage areas.
ADVERTISING STATUARY: An imitation or representation or a person or thing that
is sculptured, molded, modeled or cast in any solid or plastic substance,
material or fabric and used to identify or advertise a product or service.
Advertising statuaries shall be considered and regulated as signs.
AIRPORT: Improvements and activities related to the take off and landing of
aircraft for the purpose of recreation or carrying passengers or freight,
usually equipped with hangars, facilities for refueling and repair, terminal
buildings, operations towers and public safety facilities.
ALLEY: A secondary means of access to property, generally located at the rear
or side of the property. An alley is not intended for general circulation of
traffic.
ALTER: To make a change in the supporting members of a structure, such as
bearing walls, columns, beams or girders, to prolong the life of a structure or
to change an exterior or interior dimension of a structure. In case of a sign,
"alter" means a change of all or a portion of the copy, message, sign legend or
face, except on signs designed to advertise changing messages.
ALTERATION: Any change or modification, through public or private action, to
characteristics defining significant physical features of properties. Such
changes may include modification of structures, architectural details, visual
characteristics, grading, surface paving, addition of new structures, cutting
or removal of trees, landscaping, alteration of natural features, disturbance
of archeological sites or areas, and placement or removal of any significant
objects, such as signs, plaques, light fixtures, street furniture, walls,
fences, steps, plantings and landscape accessories affecting the property.
AMBIENT NOISE LEVEL: General noise level one finds in a certain area at a given
time.
ANIMAL HOSPITAL: A place where animals are given medical or surgical treatment
and are cared for during the time of such treatment. Use as a kennel shall be
limited to short time boarding and shall be only incidental to such hospital
use.
APARTMENT: One or more rooms with private bath and kitchen facilities
comprising an independent, self-contained residential dwelling unit for rent or
lease in a building containing more than two (2) residential dwelling units.
APPEAL: A request, pursuant to the provisions of section
6-2-19 of this title, for a review of an action undertaken pursuant to this
title.
APPROVED ACCESS: Any one or more of the following:
   (A)   A dedicated right of way for access purposes.
   (B)   An offer to dedicate to the city, or an offer to dedicate to Kern
County for which the city is a successor in interest, a right of way of a width
established by city ordinance, general plan, or any adopted specific plan or
highway right of way standards which expressly grants to the owner of the
subdivision or development and any successors in interest the right to use the
right of way without limit as to the quantity of vehicular traffic from each
lot or use created by the owners or successors in interest to improve roadways
in the city road system, both of which abut or connect to a publicly maintained
roadway or connect to existing traveled roads where a prescriptive right by
user has been established for public use.
   (C)   An offer to dedicate to the city, or an offer to dedicate to Kern
County of which the city is a successor in interest, and to the public in
general, an easement for public road, highway and public utility purposes, of a
width established as adequate for such purpose by the city. The offer to
dedicate to the public in general can be accepted by public use, but the
easement of road construction thereon shall not become a city roadway until and
unless the city council, by appropriate resolution, has caused said roadway to
be accepted into the city road system.
   (D)   An existing traveled way where a prescriptive right by user has been
established for public use by a court decree.
ARCADES: A place of business where five (5) or more electronic or coin operated
games are operated for compensation.
ARCHITECTURAL FEATURES: Any portion of the outer surface of a structure,
including, but not limited to, the kind, color and texture of the building
material, the type and style of windows, doors, lights, signs, walls, fences,
awnings, canopies, screens, sculptures, decorations, roof shape and materials,
and other fixtures appurtenant to a structure.
ARCHITECTURAL PROJECTION: A marquee, fireplace chimney, porch, canopy or
similar projection of a building.
AREA (BUILDING): The sum in square feet of the areas of the horizontal
projections of all structures on a lot, excluding open pergolas, steps,
chimneys, eaves, buttresses, cornices, unenclosed and unroofed terraces,
patios, unenclosed private balconies, not used for access, and minor ornamental
features projecting from the walls of the building, which features are not
directly supported by the ground.
AUTHORIZED AGENT: A person bearing written authority from the property owner to
act as the owner's representative.
AUTOMOBILE/AUTOMOTIVE: Motor vehicles, including cars, light duty vans and
pickup trucks, sport utility vehicles and motorcycles.
AUTOMOBILE SERVICE STATION OR GASOLINE SERVICE STATION: A retail place of
business engaged in supplying goods and services essential to the normal
operation of automobiles, whose primary use is the dispensing of automotive
fuel and motor oil.
AUTOMOTIVE AND LIGHT TRUCK REPAIR (MAJOR): Activities typically including, but
not necessarily limited to, automotive and light truck repair, heavy automobile
and truck repair, such as transmission and engine repair and the installation
of major accessories.
AUTOMOTIVE AND LIGHT TRUCK REPAIR (MINOR): Activities including, but not
necessarily limited to, automotive and light truck repair, the retail sale of
goods and services for automobiles and light trucks (less than 6,000 pounds),
and the cleaning and washing of automobiles. Uses typically include, but are
not necessarily limited to, brake, muffler, smog check and automotive drive-
through car washes. Heavier automobile repair, such as transmission and engine
repair and auto body shops shall not be included in this land use type.
AWNING: A permanent or temporary structure attached to and wholly supported by
a building, and installed over or in front of openings or windows in a
building, and consisting of a fixed or movable frame and a top of canvas or
other similar material covering the entire space enclosed between the frame and
the building.
BAR/COCKTAIL LOUNGE: Any licensed premises operating as a "public premises", as
defined, wherein alcoholic beverages are sold for consumption on the premises
and minors are excluded therefrom by law.
BARRIER STRIP: A strip of land one foot (1') or more in width dedicated to the
city for street purposes and access control at the end of a dead end street or
along the side of a part width dedicated street or other public right of way.
BASE FLOOD: The flood having a one percent (1%) chance of being equaled or
exceeded in any given year (sometimes referred to as a 100-year flood).
BASEMENT: Area of the building having a subgrade floor (below ground level) on
all sides.
BED AND BREAKFAST USE: A special accessory use to a one- family residential
dwelling where a limited or specified number of guestrooms are made available
to transient guests for rent to provide overnight sleeping accommodations on a
less than weekly basis. Bed and breakfast uses are subdivided into three (3)
basic categories as follows:
   (A)   Bed And Breakfast Home: One-family dwelling containing three (3) to
five (5) guestrooms where said dwelling is occupied by the owner of the
property.
   (B)   Bed And Breakfast Inn/Lodge: An existing one-family dwelling which has
been designated a historical structure containing a minimum of six (6) and a
maximum of ten (10) guestrooms where said dwelling is occupied by the owner or
manager of the property.
   (C)   Host Home: One-family dwelling containing one to two (2) guestrooms
where said dwelling is occupied by the owner of the property.
BICYCLE LOCKER: A fully enclosed space accessible only to the owner or operator
of the bicycle. This space may also serve other purposes.
BICYCLE, MONITORED PARKING: An area for the parking of bicycles which is under
constant surveillance.
BICYCLE, RESTRICTED ACCESS PARKING: Facilities within a locked room or locked
enclosure accessible only to the owners or operators of bicycles parked within,
or facilities within the common locked garage areas of a multiple-family
residential development which is accessible only to residents of the units for
which the garage is provided.
BICYCLE WAY: An area either within or outside the right of way of a dedicated
street where bicycle travel is the designated use.
BILLBOARD: See definition of Sign (Off Site Advertising Sign).
BLINDER RACK: An opaque device, which serves to obscure the lower two-thirds
(2/3) of any material displaying harmful matter.
BOARDING OR ROOMING HOUSE: A building containing a dwelling unit where lodging
is provided, with or without meals, for compensation for seven (7) or more
persons.
BRIDGE: The construction of or addition to a bridge identified in the
circulation element of the general plan or is part of a major thoroughfare and
spans a waterway, railway, roadway, highway or freeway.
BUILDING: Any structure having a roof supported by columns or by walls and
designed for the shelter or housing of any person, animal or chattel and having
a fixed location upon the ground.
BUILDING, ACCESSORY: A subordinate building, including shelters or swimming
pools, the use of which is incidental to that of the main building on the same
lot and/or building site.
BUILDING EXPOSURE: The linear measurement of exterior building walls enclosing
interior spaces that are facing an outdoor area.
BUILDING FACE: The area of one building elevation, either the front, rear or
side.
BUILDING FRONTAGE: The side of a building that contains the main entrance for
pedestrian ingress and egress. If more than one main entrance exists, the one
that more nearly faces or is oriented to the street of highest classification
as portrayed in the circulation element of the general plan shall be considered
the building frontage. If all streets are of the same classification, either
side of the building may be considered to be the building frontage.
BUILDING HEIGHT: The vertical distance from the grade to the highest point of
the coping of a flat roof or to the deck line of a mansard roof or to the
highest point of the highest gable of a pitch or hip roof, but exclusive of
vents, air conditioners, chimneys or other such incidental appurtenances.
BUILDING, MAIN: A building in which is conducted the principal use of the lot
and/or building site on which it is situated.
BUILDING OFFICIAL: The building official of the city of Taft, or his/her
designee.
BUILDING SETBACK AREA (FRONT): See definition of Yard (Front).
BUILDING SETBACK AREA (REAR): See definition of Yard (Rear).
BUILDING SETBACK AREA (SIDE): See definition of Yard (Side).
BUILDING SITE: A legally created parcel or contiguous parcels of land in single
or joint ownership, which provide the area and the open spaces required by this
title, exclusive of all vehicular and pedestrian rights of way and all other
easements that prohibit the surface use of the property by the owner thereof.
BUILDING SPACE: Building or portion of a building devoted to a single business
interest without direct interior connections to other business interests.
BULLETIN BOARD: A board, kiosk or wall area not greater than eight (8) square
feet on which are affixed personal notices, lost and found notices, business
cards, and similar small informal notices referring to products, services,
activities or other items not offered on the same premises. The term "bulletin
board" shall not include attraction boards.
BUSINESS: A commercial, office, institutional or industrial establishment.
BUSINESS PARK: A group of two (2) or more businesses located on a single parcel
or contiguous parcels which utilize common off street parking and access and/or
share a common theme.
CABANA: Any portable, demountable or permanent room, enclosure or other
structure erected, constructed or placed on a mobilehome space and used in
conjunction with a mobilehome, and not used for sleeping purposes.
CANOPY: A small roof or awning attached to the wall of a structure, which is
supported by no means other than its attachment to the wall.
CARPORT: A permanently roofed structure with not more than two (2) enclosed
sides used for automobile shelter and storage.
CHURCH: An institution that people regularly attend to participate in or hold
religious services, meetings and other activities. The term "church" shall not
carry a secular connotation and shall include buildings in which the religious
services of any denomination are held.
CITY: The city of Taft, California.
CITY COUNCIL: The city council of the city of Taft.
CITY ENGINEER: The city engineer of the city of Taft.
CITY MANAGER: The city manager of the city of Taft, or his/her designee.
CITY STANDARDS: All building and development regulations enacted by ordinance,
resolution or city policy, including standard drawings prepared by the public
works director/city engineer, showing the nature of various items of
improvement work to be constructed and/or made a part of on site and off site
improvements associated with a development project.
CLUBS: An association of persons for some common purpose, but not including
groups organized primarily to render service which is customarily carried on as
a business.
COLLOCATED: Locating wireless communications antennas and related equipment
from more than one provider on a single tower, building, structure or site.
COMBINING DISTRICT: Any district in which the general district regulations are
combined with those special districts for the purpose of additional special
regulations.
COMMERCIAL: Any activity or use of land which involves buying, selling,
processing or improving things not produced on the land, and having financial
gain as the primary aim of the activity or use, whether or not such activity or
use is for hire or on account of buyer, seller, processor or improver.
COMMUNICATION AND TELECOMMUNICATION FACILITIES: Includes cable television
reception facilities, cellular telephone facilities and centers for employee
telecommuting, communication receiving and broadcasting facilities and the
like.
COMMUNICATION ANTENNA: A transmitting or receiving device mounted on a tower,
building or structure, that is designed to transmit or receive communications,
as authorized by the federal communications commission, including, but not
limited to, radiation or capture of electromagnetic waves, digital signals,
analog signals, radio frequencies, wireless telecommunications signals or other
communication signals which transmit or receive radio signals. Antennas
typically are either in dish, panel or whip type structures.
COMMUNICATION EQUIPMENT: Any communication antenna or related equipment
designed to transmit or receive communications as authorized by the federal
communications commission.
COMMUNICATION TOWER: A tower greater than thirty five feet (35') in height
(including antenna) which supports communication (transmission or receiving)
equipment. The term "communication tower" shall not include amateur radio
operators' equipment, as licensed by the federal communication commission.
COMMUNITY CARE FACILITY: Elderly housing licensed by the state health and
welfare agency, department of social services, typically for residents who are
frail and need supervision. Services normally include three (3) meals daily,
housekeeping, security and emergency response, a full activities program,
supervision in the dispensing of medicine, personal services, such as
assistance in grooming and bathing, but no nursing care. Sometimes referred to
as residential care personal care.
COMMUNITY NOISE EQUIVALENT LEVEL (CNEL): The noise level during a twenty four
(24) hour day, in decibels, weighted to account for the lower tolerance of
people to noise during evening (7:00 P.M. to 10:00 P.M.) and night (10:00 P.M.
to 7:00 A.M.) hours relative to daytime hours. CNEL shall be computed as
prescribed by title 25 of the Administrative Code of the state of California.
COMMUNITY SERVICES DISTRICT: A community services district that has the power
to construct and maintain streets, landscaping or other public improvements as
appropriate with the context used.
CONDOMINIUM: An estate in real property consisting of an undivided interest in
real property, coupled with a separate interest in space called a unit, the
boundaries of which are described on a recorded final map, parcel map or
condominium plan in sufficient detail to locate all boundaries thereof, and as
more specifically defined by California Civil Code section 1351(f).
CONSERVATION ZONE: An area of the city, whether commercial or residential, a
majority of whose buildings are fifty (50) years old or older, which the city
wishes to maintain and revitalize so as to emphasize their importance to the
past, present and future of the city.
CONSTRUCTION (NEW): Structures for which the "start of construction" commenced
on or after the effective date of this title.
CONSTRUCTION (START OF, SUBSTANTIAL): The placement of permanent construction
of a structure (other than a mobilehome) on a site, such as the pouring of
slabs or footings or any work beyond the stage of excavation. Permanent
construction does not include land preparation, such as clearing, grading and
filling; nor does it include the installation of streets or walkways; nor does
it include excavation for a basement, footings, piers or foundations, or the
erection of temporary forms; nor does it include the installation on the
property of accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds not occupied as a
principal use as defined by the district within which the property is located.
CONTIGUOUS PARCELS: Adjacent parcels of land, which shall be considered
contiguous even if separated by roads, streets, utility easements, alleys or
railroad rights of way.
CONVALESCENT CARE: A facility licensed by the state department of public
health, the state department of social welfare or the Kern County health
department, which provides bed and ambulatory care for patients with
postoperative convalescent, chronically ill or dietary problems, and persons
aged or infirmed, unable to care for themselves; but not including alcoholics,
drug addicts or persons with mental or contagious diseases or afflictions.
CONVENIENCE STORE: Any retail establishment offering for sale prepackaged food
products, household items and other goods commonly associated with the same and
having a gross floor area of less than five thousand (5,000) square feet.
COUNTY: The County of Kern, California.
COUNTY ASSESSOR: The County Assessor of the County of Kern.
COUNTY RECORDER: The County Recorder of the County of Kern.
COVERAGE (LOT OR SITE): The ratio between the ground floor area of the building
or buildings and the lot area.
DAYCARE FACILITY: A facility which provides no medical care to children under
eighteen (18) years of age in need of personal services, supervision or
assistance essential for sustaining the activities of daily living or for the
protection of the individual on less than a twenty four (24) hour basis.
Daycare facility includes family daycare homes, infant centers, preschools and
extended daycare facilities. A "family daycare home" is a daycare facility
located in a residence which regularly provides care, protection and
supervision of children from more than one other family, in the provider's own
home, for periods of less than twenty four (24) hours per day, while the
parents or guardians are away and includes the following:
   (A)   "Large family daycare facilities" are those which provide family
daycare for seven (7) to twelve (12) children, including children who reside at
the home.
   (B)   "Small family daycare facilities" are those which provide family
daycare to six (6) or fewer children, including children who reside at the
home.
DEMOLITION: Any act or process that destroys in part or in whole a structure.
DENSITY: The number of permanent dwelling units per unit of land, excluding
accessory dwelling units per section
6-12-23 of this title.
DENSITY BONUS: The allocation of development rights that allow a parcel to
accommodate additional square footage or additional residential units beyond
the maximum for which the parcel is zoned, usually in exchange for the
provision or preservation of an amenity at the same site or at another
location. For example, under California law, a housing development that
provides twenty percent (20%) of its units for lower income households, or ten
percent (10%) of its units for very low income households, or fifty percent
(50%) of its units for seniors, is entitled to a density bonus.
DERRICK: Any portable framework, tower, mast or structure which is required or
used in connection with drilling, reworking, operating or maintaining a well
for the production of oil, gas or other hydrocarbons from the earth.
DESERTION: As defined in California Public Resources Code section 3237,
particularly section 3237(a)(3)(A)-(F), meaning that a reputable presumption of
desertion will be found to exist if:
   (A)   A well has not been completed to production or injection and drilling
machinery has been removed from the well site for at least six (6) months;
   (B)   A well's production or injection equipment has been removed from the
well site for at least two (2) years;
   (C)   An operator has failed to comply with an order of the supervisor
within the time provided by the order or has filed to challenge the order on a
timely basis;
   (D)   An operator fails to designate an agent as required by Public
Resources Code section 3200;
   (E)   A person who is to acquire a well that is subject to a purchase,
transfer, assignment, conveyance, exchange or other disposition fails to comply
with Public Resources Code section 3202;
   (F)   If an operator has failed to maintain the access road to a well site
passable to oil field and emergency vehicles.
DESIGN GUIDELINES: The principals contained in a document that illustrates
appropriate and inappropriate methods of rehabilitation and construction. The
purpose of using design guidelines is to aid design and decision making with
regard to retaining the integrity of scale, design intent, materials, feeling,
patterns of development, and historical character of a cultural resource.
DESIGNATED SITE: A parcel or part thereof on which a cultural resource is or
has been situated, and any abutting parcel or part thereof constituting part of
the premises on which the cultural resource is situated, and which has been
designated a cultural resource.
DEVELOPMENT: Any manmade change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, excavation or drilling operations.
DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT 1 : An agreement between the city and project applicant
specifying at a minimum the use, density or intensity of use, the maximum
height and size of proposed buildings, and provisions for the reservation or
dedication of land for public purposes for a proposed development project. A
development agreement may also include other conditions, terms and
restrictions, and requirements for subsequent discretionary actions.
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT: Any of the following:
   (A)   A project for which a building permit is required for a commercial,
industrial or institutional building, or residential building having five (5)
or more living units.
   (B)   Any new public facility where solid waste is collected and loaded and
any improvements for areas of a public facility used for collecting and loading
solid waste.
   (C)   The definition of development project only includes subdivisions or
tracts of single- family detached homes if, within such subdivisions or tracts,
there is an area where solid waste is collected and loaded in a location which
serves five (5) or more living units. In such instances, recycling areas as
specified in this title are only required to serve the needs of the living
units that utilize the solid waste collection and loading area.
DISH ANTENNA: A dishlike antenna used to link communications sites together by
wireless transmission of voice or data. Also called microwave antenna or
microwave dish antenna.
DIVISION OF OIL, GAS, AND GEOTHERMAL RESOURCES: The division of oil, gas, and
geothermal resources (DOGGR) under the department of conservation of the state
of California.
DRILL SITE: The premises used during the drilling or reworking of a well or
wells located thereon.
DRILLING: Digging or boring a hole in the earth for the purpose of exploring
for, developing or producing of oil, geothermal resources, injection and
hydrocarbons.
DRILLING EQUIPMENT: The derrick, together with all parts of and appurtenances
to such structure, every piece of apparatus, machinery or equipment used or
erected or maintained for use in connection with drilling.
DRIPLINE: A line which may be drawn on the ground around a tree directly under
its outermost branch tips and which identifies that location where rainwater
tends to drip from a tree.
DRIVE-THROUGH FACILITY: A facility, including a restaurant which, by its
design, allows people to receive goods and/or services while remaining in their
automobiles.
DRIVE-THROUGH RESTAURANT: A place of business that sells food products or
beverages and which:
   (A)   Delivers such food products or beverages to customers outside of the
building in which they are prepared by means of a service window, counter or
similar method or device; or
   (B)   Delivers such food products or beverages to customers within a
building that is designed in such a manner that a majority of the customers
will remove such food products or beverages from the building.
DWELLING: A building or a portion thereof designed and used exclusively for
residential occupancy, including single- and multiple-family dwellings,
including mobilehomes and manufactured housing, but not including hotels,
motels, boarding houses or trailers.
DWELLING (MULTI-FAMILY): A building containing two (2) or more dwelling units,
either attached or detached.
DWELLING (SINGLE-FAMILY): A building containing one dwelling unit on one lot.
DWELLING UNIT: A building or mobilehome, or portion thereof, designed for
residential occupancy for not more than one family.
DWELLING UNIT, ACCESSORY (ADU): A secondary dwelling unit located on the same
parcel as primary single-family residential unit or multi-family residential
development. The unit may be attached, detached, or a conversion of a room(s)
in the primary dwelling per the provisions in section
6-12-23 of this title.
DWELLING UNIT, JUNIOR ACCESSORY (JADU): An ADU of no less than 70 square feet
and no more than 500 square feet in size and contained entirely within a
single-family residence. A JADU can only be created through conversion of an
existing portion of a single-family dwelling, not a garage or other accessory
building per the provisions in section
6-12-23 of this title.
EASEMENT: The right to use property owned by another for specific purposes or
to gain access to another property. For example, utility companies may have
easements on private properties to be able to install and maintain utility
facilities.
EDGE OF A RIGHT-OF-WAY: A measurement from the limit of the public right-of-way
measured along a line equidistant from and parallel to the centerline of the
freeway, highway or roadway.
EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTIONS: Public and other institutions conducting regular
academic instruction at kindergarten, elementary, secondary or collegiate
levels, and including graduate schools, universities, research institutions and
religious institutions. Such institutions must offer general academic
instruction equivalent to the standards prescribed by the State Board of
Education, confer degrees as a college or university of undergraduate or
graduate standing, conduct academic or scientific research, or give religious
instruction. This definition does not include commercial or trade schools.
EMERGENCY SHELTER: Housing with minimal supportive services for homeless
persons that is limited to occupancy of six (6) months or less by a homeless
person. No individual or household may be denied emergency shelter because of
an inability to pay, as defined in Health and Safety Code section 50801(e).
ENTERTAINMENT (LIVE): This term, when used in this title in connection with the
performing arts and other methods of live performances by entertainers, shall
apply to the following activities where they occur on a scheduled basis three
(3) or more days during a calendar year on the site of a use other than a
public or semipublic use:
   (A)   A musical, theatrical or dance recital performed by one or more
persons, regardless of whether performers are compensated;
   (B)   Any form of dancing by patrons or guests at a business establishment;
   (C)   A fashion show, except when conducted within an enclosed building used
primarily for manufacture or sale of clothing.
ENVIRONMENTAL CONSTRAINT NOTE: Any note or notes required by the conditions of
approval to be shown on an environmental constraint sheet and reference made
thereof on the final map. This shall be required when constraints involving
(but not limited to) any of the following are conditioned by the city council:
archaeological sites, geologic mapping, grading, building, building setback
lines, flood hazard zones, fire protection, water availability, sewage disposal
and signalization mitigation.
ENVIRONMENTAL CONSTRAINT SHEET: A duplicate of the final map on which are shown
the environmental constraint notes. This sheet shall be filed simultaneously
with the final map, with the city engineer and labeled environmental constraint
sheet in the top margin. Applicable items will be shown under a heading labeled
environmental constraint notes. The environmental constraint sheet shall
contain the following, or a similar statement:
The environmental constraint information shown on this map sheet is for
informational purposes describing conditions as of the date of filing, and
derived from public records or reports and does not imply the correctness or
sufficiency of those records or reports by the preparer of this map sheet.
ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT REPORT (EIR): A report complying with the requirements of
the California environmental quality act (CEQA) and its implementing
guidelines. This term is synonymous with an environmental impact statement
(EIS) as defined in federal law.
FAMILY: An individual, or two (2) or more persons related by birth, marriage or
adoption (U.S. bureau of the census) or of not more than six (6) persons living
together who constitute a bona fide single-family housekeeping unit in a
dwelling unit, not including a fraternity, sorority, club or other group of
persons occupying a hotel, lodging house or institution of any kind.
FARM OR FARM PARCEL: A tract of land containing at least twenty (20) acres,
devoted primarily to agricultural uses, together with dwelling and/or other
accessory uses.
FARM RELATED BUSINESS: A business operated on a farm parcel, related to or
supportive of agricultural activities, such as cold storage facilities, sheds,
maintenance shops, farm implement repair and roadside sale of agricultural
products.
FARMERS' MARKET: A designated area or building where farm direct produce is
allowed to be sold to the public.
FAST FOOD RESTAURANT: Any retail establishment intended primarily to provide
short order services for on site dining and/or takeout, including self-serve
restaurants (excluding cafeterias where food is consumed on the premises),
drive- through restaurants, and formula restaurants required by contract or
other arrangement to offer standardized menus, ingredients and fast food
preparation.
FEASIBLE: Capable of being accomplished in a successful manner within a
reasonable period of time, taking into account economic, environmental, social
and technological factors.
FENCE: Any structural device forming a physical barrier by means of hedge,
wood, metal, chain, brick, stake, plastic or other similar materials.
FIRE HYDRANT: An appliance meeting city standards and approved by the Kern
County fire department which has the suppression of fires as its primary
function.
FLAT ROOF: A roof which is horizontal without a sloping, pitched or mansard
portion above.
FLOOR AREA (FAR): The numerical value obtained by dividing the aboveground
gross floor area of a building or buildings located on a lot or parcel of land
by the total area of such lot or parcel of land.
FLOOR AREA (GROSS): The total enclosed area of all floors of a building
measured to the inside face of the exterior walls, including halls, stairways,
elevator shafts at each floor level, service and mechanical equipment rooms,
and basement or attic areas having a height of more than seven feet (7'), but
excluding areas used exclusively for vehicle parking or loading.
FLOOR AREA (NET): The total building floor area, excluding garages, hallways,
lobbies, elevators and other common spaces.
FRONT FOOTAGE OF BUILDING OCCUPANCY: The single linear dimension measured at
the ground floor along the building frontage that defines the limits of the
particular occupancy at that location.
FRONTAGE (BUILDING): The side or face of the building that is parallel to or is
at an angle of forty five degrees (45o) or less to a public street or a public
parking area.
FRONTAGE ROAD: A minor street which is parallel to, and adjacent to, an
arterial street or freeway, and which provides access to abutting properties
and protection from through and fast traffic.
FRONTAGE (STREET OR HIGHWAY): That portion of a lot or parcel of land that
borders and has access to a public street, highway or parkway. The frontage
shall be measured along the common lot line separating the lot or parcel of
land from the public street, highway or parkway.
FRUIT/VEGETABLE STAND: Temporary structure used for the sale of cultivated
fruits and/or vegetables grown on site.
GARAGE: A permanently roofed structure with three (3) enclosed sides and a
garage door which is used for automobile shelter and storage.
GARAGE (PRIVATE): A detached accessory building or a portion of a main building
on the same lot for the parking and temporary storage of vehicles of the
occupants of the premises.
GARAGE (PUBLIC): Any garage other than a private garage.
GAS: Any fluid, either combustible or noncombustible, which is produced in a
natural state from the earth which maintains a gaseous or rarified state at
standard temperature and pressure conditions. It shall also mean the gaseous
components or vapors occurring in or derived from petroleum or natural gas.
GENERAL PLAN: The city general plan, as adopted by the city council and
subsequently amended.
GRADE (EXISTING): The surface of the ground or pavement at a stated location as
it exists prior to disturbance in preparation for a project regulated by this
title.
GROUNDWATER RECHARGE: The natural process of infiltration and percolation of
rainwater from land areas or streams through permeable soils into water holding
rocks that provide underground storage ("aquifers").
GROVE: A planting of fruit or nut trees or other manmade planting of trees
without underbrush.
GUEST QUARTERS: Living quarters located on the same premises with the primary
dwelling unit or attached to the main portion of the primary dwelling unit for
the sole use of persons employed on the premises, members of the family living
in the primary dwelling unit, or for temporary use by guests of the family
living on the premises. Such quarters shall have no kitchen and shall not be
rented or leased or otherwise used as a separate dwelling.
GUESTROOM: Any rented or leased room which is used or designed to provide
sleeping accommodations for one or more guests in apartments, hotels, motels,
private clubs, lodges and fraternal organizations. In a suite of rooms, each
room that provides access to a common hall or direct access to the outside area
shall be considered as one guestroom.
HARMFUL MATTER: As defined in accord with Penal Code section 313(a)(1)(2),
means matter which, when taken as a whole, appeals predominately to the
prurient interests of the average person and, when applying contemporary
statewide standards with respect to what is suitable material for minors, lacks
significant literary, artistic, political, educational or scientific value for
minors.
HAZARDOUS MATERIAL: Any substance that, because of its quantity, concentration
or physical or chemical characteristics, poses a significant present or
potential hazard to human health and safety or to the environment if released
into the workplace or the environment. The term includes, but is not limited
to, hazardous substances and hazardous wastes.
HEIGHT: A vertical dimension measured from existing grade unless otherwise
specified by this title, title X, "Subdivisions", of this code, the
"Subdivision And Engineering Design Manual", and the city's adopted California
building code.
HERBICIDE: A chemical used to kill plants (a class of pesticide).
HIGHWAY BUILDING FRONTAGE: A building wall parallel or nearly parallel to an
adjacent highway.
HIGHWAY LOT FRONTAGE: A property line adjacent to a highway right of way.
HISTORICAL LANDMARK: Any object designated as a historical landmark by city
council action.
HOME OCCUPATIONS: Any occupation customarily conducted entirely within a
dwelling by its inhabitants, the purpose being incidental to the use of the
dwelling for dwelling purposes, as provided in section
6-12-18 of this title.
HOOKAH: Any water pipe made of metal, glass, or other material, usually
decorated and shaped like a bottle or small tank, with a mouthpiece at the end
of a long flexible hose or cord; also referred to as narghile, shisha, and
goza, typically used to smoke a flavored or sweetened tobacco.
HOOKAH LOUNGE: Commercial or industrial establishments that include designated
areas, indoor or outdoor, for the use of hookahs. The establishment of or
engaging in the business of or occupation of conducting, operating or
maintaining a hookah lounge is prohibited within the city limits. The
prohibition applies to the free or paid use of hookahs and applies to all
patrons of the establishment, including all owners, employees and staff of the
establishment. The private use of hookahs within personal residences is not
included within this definition and prohibition.
HOSPITAL: An institution for the diagnosis, care and treatment of human
illness, including surgery and primary treatment.
HOTEL/MOTEL: A structure, or portion thereof, or a group of attached or
detached structures containing completely furnished individual guestrooms or
suites on a transient basis for compensation.
HOUSEHOLD: All those persons, related or unrelated, who occupy a single housing
unit (see definition of Family).
HOUSING, DEPENDENT: Residential occupancy of a temporary accessory living unit
located on the same parcel as the principal unit, which is occupied by one or
two (2) adults, who: a) have reached the age of sixty (60); or b) are
dependents of the residents of the principal unit; or c) are court appointed
conservators of a resident of the principal unit. For the purpose of this
definition, "dependent" means a related individual who is dependent upon the
resident of the principal unit for financial support or healthcare. An
individual will be determined to be a dependent for healthcare reasons if he or
she is considered blind or disabled as defined in section 1614(a) of part A of
title XVI of the Social Security Act.
HOUSING, GROUP: Multi-residential living facilities, each of which contains
group quarters in permanently fixed buildings, or those portions thereof, which
accommodate or are intended to accommodate residential land use types.
HUNTING CLUBS: See definition of clubs.
IDLE 1 : To curtail for a period of one year or more surface mining operations
by more than ninety percent (90%) of the operation's previous maximum annual
mineral production, with the intent to resume those surface mining operations
at a future date.
ILLUMINATION (DIRECT): Illumination by means of light that travels directly
from its source to the viewer's eye.
ILLUMINATION (INDIRECT): Illumination by means only of light cast upon an
opaque surface from a concealed source.
IMPROVEMENT: Such street work and utilities to be installed or agreed to be
installed, by a subdivider or developer on land to be used for public or
private streets, highways and easements, as are necessary for the general use
of the parcel owners and local neighborhood traffic and drainage and flood
control needs as a condition of approval precedent to the approval and
acceptance of a final map or issuance of a certificate of occupancy.
"Improvement" also refers to such other specific improvements or types of
improvements, the installation of which, whether by the subdivider or
developer, by private or public utilities, or by any other entity approved by
the City, or by a combination thereof, is necessary or convenient to ensure
conformity to or implementation of the General Plan or any adopted specific
plan.
IMPROVEMENT STANDARDS: The standards for improvements set forth in this and
other regulations related to the development of land within the City.
INTENSIVE AGRICULTURAL USE: Agricultural activities that typically are
associated with one or more of the following impacts: strong offensive odors,
substantial runoff, noise, large concentrations of animal waste and extensive
use of chemicals, compost and manure piles.
KENNEL (COMMERCIAL): Any premises wherein any person engages in the business of
boarding, breeding, buying, letting for hire, training for a fee, or selling
dogs or cats, except a facility operated by a humane society, or a governmental
agency or its authorized agents, for the purpose of impounding or caring for
animals.
KENNEL (NONCOMMERCIAL): Any premises where five (5) or more dogs and/or cats
over the age of four (4) months are kept or maintained for the use and
enjoyment of the occupant for noncommercial purposes.
KIOSK: Any off site subdivision or business directional sign or structure, of
four (4) sides or less, typically constructed of four inch by six inch (4"x6")
posts upon which business directional or subdivision signs may be mounted.
KITCHEN: A room, or any portion of a room, used for cooking and/or preparation
of foods.
LANDSCAPING: The planting and maintenance of some combination of trees, shrubs,
vines, ground covers, flowers or lawns. In addition, a combination of design
may include natural features, such as rock, stone and structural features,
including, but not limited to, fountains, reflecting pools, artwork, screens,
walls, fences and benches. Organic materials, such as trees, shrubs, etc., are
referred to as "soft" landscape. Inorganic materials, such as stone, masonry
products, etc., are referred to as "hard" landscape.
LIVESTOCK: Domestic or useful animals normally kept or reared on a farm or
ranch for work, breeding, fattening or other purposes, including, but not
limited to, horses, bovines, sheep, swine and goats.
LOGO: A trademark or symbol of an organization or business.
LOT: A site or parcel of land under one ownership having frontage upon a
street, other than an alley, or a private easement determined by the planning
director to be adequate for purpose of access.
LOT (AREA): The horizontal area within the property lines, excluding area to be
included in future street right of way as established by dedication.
LOT (CORNER): A site bounded by two (2) or more adjacent street lines that have
an angle of intersection of not more than one hundred thirty five degrees
(135o).
LOT (DEPTH): The average horizontal distance between the front and rear lot
lines measured in the mean direction of the side lot lines.
LOT (DOUBLE FRONTAGE): An interior lot having frontage on more than one street
or a corner lot having frontage on more than three (3) streets.
LOT (FLAG OR CORRIDOR): A lot with access provided to the bulk of the lot by
means of a narrow corridor.
LOT (INTERIOR): A lot, other than a corner lot.
LOT (KEY): The first interior lot to the rear of a reversed corner lot.
LOT LINE: A line of record that divides one lot from another lot, or from a
public or private street, or any other public space.
LOT (NONCONFORMING): A lot which when lawfully created or established, complied
with the width, depth and area requirements of the district where located, but
which does not conform to the presently existing area or width and depth
regulations of the district where located, or which does not conform to the
presently existing requirements of the subdivision ordinance governing lot
standards.
LOT (REVERSED CORNER): A corner lot, the side line of which is substantially a
continuation of the front property line of the first lot to its rear.
LOT (WIDTH): The average horizontal distance between the side lot lines,
measured at right angels to the lot depth as a point midway between the front
and rear lot lines.
LOW OR MODERATE INCOME HOUSEHOLDS: Persons and families whose income does not
exceed one hundred percent (100%) of low income or one hundred twenty percent
(120%) of moderate income of Kern County median income.
LOWER INCOME HOUSEHOLDS: Persons or families whose income does not exceed
eighty percent (80%) of Kern County median income, adjusted for family size and
revised from time to time.
MAINTENANCE: As it relates to the petroleum industry, the repair or replacement
of machinery, equipment, apparatus, structure, facility and parts thereof, used
on and in connection with an oil operation site or drill site which would
constitute a fire or hazard to employees, public health, public safety and
public welfare.
MANSARD ROOF/PARAPET: A sloped roof or rooflike facade above and
architecturally compatible to a building wall.
MANUFACTURED HOME: A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which is
built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities. For floodplain
management purposes, the term "manufactured home" also includes park trailers,
travel trailers and other similar vehicles placed on site for more than one
hundred eighty (180) consecutive days.
MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of land
divided into two (2) or more manufactured home lots for sale or rent.
MATTER: As defined in accord with Penal Code section 313(b), means any book,
magazine, newspaper, or other printed or written material, or any picture,
drawing, photograph, motion picture or other pictorial representation, or any
statue or other figure, or any recording, transcription or mechanical, chemical
or electrical reproduction, or any other articles, equipment, machines or
materials.
MEAN SEA LEVEL: For purposes of the national flood insurance program, the
national geodetic vertical datum (NGVD) of 1929, or other datum, to which base
flood elevations shown on a community's flood insurance rate map are
referenced.
MINED LANDS: The surface, subsurface and groundwater of an area where surface
mining operations will be, are being, or have been, conducted. This includes
private ways and roads appurtenant to any such land excavations, workings,
mining waste and areas where structures, facilities, equipment, machines, tools
or other materials or property which result from, or are used in surface mining
operations are located.
MINERAL EXPLORATION: The search for minerals by geological, geophysical,
geochemical or other techniques. These include, but are not limited to,
sampling, assaying, drilling, or any surface or underground works needed to
determine the type, extent or quantity of minerals present.
MINERALS: Any naturally occurring chemical element or compound, or groups of
elements and compounds, formed from inorganic processes and organic substances.
These include, but are not limited to, sand, gravel, coal, peat and bituminous
rock; but exclude geothermal resources, natural gas and petroleum.
MINING OPERATIONS (SURFACE): All or any part of the process involved in the
mining of minerals on mined lands by removing overburden and mining directly
from the mineral deposits, open pit mining of minerals naturally exposed,
mining by the auger method, dredging and quarrying, or surface work incidental
to an underground mine. Surface mining operations shall include, but are not
limited to:
   (A)   In place distillation, retorting or leaching.
   (B)   Production and disposal of mining waste.
   (C)   Prospecting and exploratory activities.
MINING OPERATOR: Any person who is engaged in surface mining operations, who
permits others to conduct surface mining operations on his property and who
receives a financial benefit therefrom, or who contracts with others to conduct
operations on his behalf, except a person who is engaged in surface mining
operations as an employee with wages as his sole compensation.
MINING WASTE: The residual of soil, rock, mineral, liquid, vegetation,
equipment, machines, tools or other materials or property directly resulting
from, or displaced by, surface mining operations.
MINOR: Any person under the age of eighteen (18) years.
MINOR CHANGE: For purposes of provisions of this title relating to the
subdivision of land only, "minor change" shall mean a modification of an
approved tentative map that involves a change of lot lines, lot shape, lot
dimensions, street alignment width or grade, grading proposals or other
elements that do not change the basic design or improvements required in the
approved tentative map and the conditions thereof.
MOBILE RECYCLING UNIT: An automobile, truck, trailer or van, licensed by the
department of motor vehicles, which is used for the collection of recyclable
materials. A mobile recycling center also means the bins, boxes, or containers
transported by truck, van, or trailer used for the collection of recyclable
materials.
MOBILEHOME: A transportable structure in one or more sections, built on a
permanent chassis, and designed to be used with or without a permanent
foundation when connected to the required utilities; excluding recreational or
travel.
MOBILEHOME PARK: Any area or tract of land where one or more mobile home spaces
are rented or leased or held out for rent or lease to accommodate mobilehomes
used for human habitation.
MONOPOLE: A structure composed of a single spire used to support communications
equipment.
MUNICIPAL CODE: The municipal code of the city, as amended.
NATURAL FEATURE: Any tree, plant form, geographical or geological site or
feature.
NEW CONSTRUCTION: For floodplain management purposes, structures for which the
"start of construction" commenced on or after the effective date of a
floodplain management regulation adopted by the city.
NONCONFORMING USE: A lawfully established and maintained use which does not
conform with the development standards for site area per dwelling unit or
density for the district in which the use is located by reason of adoption or
amendment of this title, or a lawfully established and maintained use of a
structure or land which does not conform with the use regulations for the
district in which it is located by reason of adoption or amendment of this
title.
NUISANCE: An interference with the enjoyment and use of property.
OCCUPANCY: Each separated use of property conducted on the entire lot or within
a building or any portion thereof.
OFF SITE SALE: The sale of packaged alcoholic beverages, including beer, wine
and distilled spirits for consumption off the premises where sold.
OFF STREET LOADING FACILITIES: A site or portion of a site devoted to the
loading or unloading of motor vehicles or trailers, including loading berths,
aisles, access drives and landscaped areas.
OFF STREET PARKING FACILITIES: A site or portion of a site devoted to the off
street parking of motor vehicles, including parking spaces, aisles, access
drives and landscaped areas.
OFFICIAL PLAN LINE: A precise line that established future rights of way along
any portion of an existing or proposed street or highway depicted on a map
showing the streets and lot line or lines and the proposed right of way lines,
and the distance thereof from the established centerline of the street or
highway, or from existing or established property lines.
OIL FIELD: An area containing a proved subterranean store of petroleum of
economic value.
OIL FIELD (DEVELOPED): Defined area containing equipment for the purpose of
extracting subterranean oil deposits that includes, but is not limited to,
derricks, storage facilities, drilling equipment, temporary office and storage
buildings.
OIL OR GAS EXPLORATION BY SCIENTIFIC MEANS: The search for natural
accumulations of oil and gas by any geological, geophysical or other suitable
means.
ON SITE SALE: The sale of alcoholic beverages, including beer, wine and
distilled spirits for consumption on the premises where sold.
OPEN SPACE (USABLE): Outdoor space that serves a recreational function or
provides visual relief from the buildings mass; the minimum dimension of which
shall be six feet (6'), excluding required front yards.
ORDINARY MAINTENANCE AND REPAIR: Any work for which a building permit is not
required by law where the purpose and effect of such work is to correct any
deterioration of or damage to a structure, or any part thereof, and to restore
the same to its condition prior to the occurrence of such deterioration or
damage.
OVERBURDEN: The soil, rock or other materials that lie above a natural mineral
deposit or in between deposits before or after their removal by surface mining
operations.
PARK (PRIVATE): Land which is open and available for use by private ownership,
membership or other mechanism that precludes park usage by members of general
public.
PARK (PUBLIC): Land which is open and available for use by the general public
for the active and passive recreational needs of the public.
PARKING FACILITIES: Parking lots and structures.
PARKING, SHARED: A situation where the same parking spaces can be utilized by
two (2) or more different uses due to the differing peak hours of operation of
the uses involved.
PARKING SPACE: A readily accessible area, within a structure or surface parking
area, exclusive of aisles, driveways, ramps and columns, maintained exclusively
for the parking of one vehicle.
PARKING STRUCTURE: A structure used for the parking of vehicles where parking
is accommodated on two (2) or more levels.
PARKING (TANDEM): A parking space configuration where two (2) or more parking
spaces are lined up, one behind the other.
PERMITTED USE: A use that is allowed by right in a particular zone or district
without approval of a conditional use permit, and which meets the performance
standards within this title.
PERSON: Any individual, firm, association, corporation, organization,
partnership; any city, county, district, state; or any department or agency
thereof; or other group acting as a unit.
PITCHED ROOF OR GABLED ROOF: A ridge roof with sloping ends over the building
walls.
PLACE OF WORSHIP SEATING AREA: The gross floor area of the main assembly hall
or auditorium of a place of worship that must be identified for the purpose of
calculating parking requirements when fixed seats are not provided. Only the
actual seating area (including aisles) shall be counted. The final
determination as to what constitutes the "place of worship seating area" shall
be made by the approval body of the city.
PLACE OR ERECT: The verbs to place or erect shall mean and include to place,
construct, erect, reerect, alter, install, enlarge, move, improve, convert,
paint or equip.
POSTER: A sign, temporary in nature and usually on paper or cardboard, used to
advertise a coming event or attraction.
PREEXISTING: In existence prior to the effective date of the ordinance enacting
this title.
PRESERVATION: The identification, study, protection, restoration,
rehabilitation or acquisition of cultural resources.
PROCESSING FACILITY: A building or enclosed space used for the collection and
processing of recycling materials for shipment to an end user's specifications,
by such means as baling, briquetting, compacting, flattening, grinding,
crushing, mechanical sorting, shredding, cleaning and manufacturing. Processing
facilities include the following:
   (A)   A light processing facility under forty five thousand (45,000) square
feet of gross collection, processing and storage area and has up to average of
two (2) outbound truck shipments per day. These facilities are limited to
baling, briquetting, crushing, compacting, grinding, shredding and sorting of
source separated recyclable materials and repairing of reusable materials
sufficient to qualify as a certified processing facility. This type of facility
shall not shred, compact or bale ferrous metals other than food and beverage
containers.
   (B)   A heavy processing facility is any processing facility other than a
light processing facility.
PROJECT: Any proposal for new or changed use, or for new construction,
alteration or enlargement of any structure, that is subject to the provisions
of this title.
PROPERTY LINE (FRONT): The shortest boundary line of a lot that is coterminous
with a street line. Boundary lines of a double frontage lot that are
coterminous with street lines shall be front property lines. When the boundary
lines of a corner lot, which are coterminous with street lines, are of equal or
substantially equal lengths, the front lot line shall be determined by the
planning director. In determining the front lot line, the planning director
shall take into consideration the character of the improvements in the
neighborhood of the lot, the relative impact to abutting property owners from
the establishment of either of such boundaries as a front lot line, the
character of the building proposed to be constructed and the distance that the
buildings are set back from the lot lines of the two (2) streets on which the
lot in question abuts.
PROPERTY LINE (INTERIOR): A lot line not abutting a street.
PROPERTY LINE (REAR): A lot line that is parallel or approximately parallel to
the front lot line. Where no lot line is within forty five degrees (45o) of
being parallel to the front lot line, a line ten feet (10') in length within
the lot, parallel to and at the maximum possible distance from the front lot
line, shall be deemed the rear lot line for the purpose of measuring rear yard
depth.
PROPERTY LINE (SIDE): Any lot line that is neither a front lot line nor a rear
lot line.
PROPERTY LINE (STREET SIDE): A side lot line abutting a street.
PUBLIC ACCESS:
   (A)   A dedication to public use or to the city and constructed to the
required width for road purposes.
   (B)   A permanent written easement for road purposes to the required width
from the state or federal government.
   (C)   An "access road", as defined in this section, that has been open to
the public without posting for five (5) years or more, provided adequate
evidence thereof is submitted to and approved by the city engineer/public works
director.
PUBLIC USE: A use operated exclusively by a public body, such use having the
purpose of serving the public health, safety or general welfare, and including
uses such as public schools, parks, playgrounds, hospitals and administrative
and service facilities.
PUBLIC WORKS DIRECTOR: The public works director of the city of Taft, or his/
her designee.
QUALIFYING RESIDENT: Any person sixty two (62) years of age or older in a
project of one hundred fifty (150) residential units or fewer, or any person
fifty five (55) years of age or older in a project greater than one hundred
fifty (150) residential units.
QUASI-PUBLIC USE: A use operated by a private nonprofit educational, religious,
recreational, charitable or medical institution, such use having the purpose
primarily of serving the general public, and including uses such as churches,
private schools and universities, community, youth and senior citizen
recreational facilities, private hospitals and the like.
RAINY SEASON: Period of the year that, based on historical data for the region,
rain can be expected to occur with some frequency. The rainy season is
considered to be October 15 through April 15.
RECLAMATION: The combined process of land treatment that minimizes water
degradation, air pollution, damage to aquatic or wildlife habitat, flooding,
erosion and other adverse effects from surface mining operations, including
adverse surface effects incidental to underground mines. Mined lands are
reclaimed to a usable condition which is readily adaptable for alternate land
uses, and creates no danger to public health or safety. The process may extend
to affected lands surrounding mined lands, and may require backfilling,
grading, resoiling, revegetation, soil compaction, stabilization or other
measures.
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE: A motor home, travel trailer, truck or van camper, tent
trailer, camping trailer or trailer borne recreational equipment, with or
without motive power, for recreational, travel or emergency purposes.
"Recreational vehicle" shall also include boats, boat trailers and recreational
off road vehicles.
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PARK: Any area or tract of land where one or more lots are
to be rented, leased or held out for rent or lease to owners or users of
recreational vehicles or tents used for travel or recreational purposes and
which are occupied on a temporary and transient basis.
RECYCLABLE MATERIAL: Reusable material, including, but not limited to, metals,
glass, plastic and paper, which are intended for reuse, remanufacture or
construction for the purpose of using the altered form. Recyclable material
does not include refuse or hazardous materials.
RECYCLING AREA (AREAS FOR RECYCLING): Space allocated for collecting and
loading of recyclable materials. Such areas shall have the ability to
accommodate receptacles for recyclable materials. Recycling areas shall be
accessible and convenient for those who deposit, as well as those who collect
and load any recyclable materials placed therein.
RECYCLING FACILITY: A center for the collection and/or processing of recyclable
materials. A "certified recycling facility" or "certified processor" means a
recycling facility certified by the California Department of Conservation as
meeting the requirements of the California Beverage Container Recycling and
Litter Reduction Act of 1986. A recycling facility does not include storage
containers or processing activity located on the premises of a residential,
commercial or manufacturing use and used solely for the recycling of material
generated by that residential property, business or manufacturer. Recycling
facilities may include the following:
   (A)   Collection Facility: A center for the acceptance, by donation,
redemption or purchase, of recyclable materials from the public. Such a
facility does not use power driven processing equipment, except as indicated in
section
6-12-22 of this title. Collection facilities may include the following:
      1.   Reverse vending machines.
      2.   A "small collection facility" which occupies an area of not more
than five hundred (500) square feet and may include:
         (a)   A mobile unit;
         (b)   Bulk reverse vending machines or a grouping of reverse vending
machines occupying more than fifty (50) square feet;
         (c)   Kiosk type units, which may include permanent structures;
unattended containers placed for the donation of recyclable materials.
      3.   A "large collection facility" which may occupy an area of more than
five hundred (500) square feet and may include permanent structures.
   (B)   Mobile Recycling Unit: An automobile, truck, trailer or van, licensed
by the Department of Motor Vehicles, which is used for the collection of
recyclable materials. A mobile recycling center also means the bins, boxes or
containers transported by trucks, vans or trailers, and used for the collection
of recyclable materials.
   (C)   Processing Facility: A building or enclosed space used for the
collection and processing of recyclable material. Processing means the
preparation of material for efficient shipment, or to an end user's
specifications, by such means as baling, briquetting, compacting, flattening,
grinding, crushing, mechanical sorting, shredding, cleaning and
remanufacturing. Processing facilities include the following:
      1.   A "light processing facility" occupies an area of under forty five
thousand (45,000) square feet of gross collection, processing and storage area,
and has up to an average of two (2) outbound truck shipments per day. Light
processing facilities are limited to baling, briquetting, crushing, compacting,
grinding, shredding and sorting of source separated recyclable materials and
repairing of reusable materials sufficient to qualify as a certified processing
facility. A light processing facility shall not shred, compact or bale ferrous,
other than food and beverage containers.
      2.   A "heavy processing facility" is any processing facility other than
a light processing facility.
   (D)   Reverse Vending Machine(s):
      1.   A "reverse vending machine" is an automated mechanical device which
accepts at least one or more types of empty beverage containers, including, but
not limited to, aluminum cans, glass and plastic bottles and cartons, and
issues a cash refund or a redeemable credit slip with a value not less than the
container's redemption value as determined by the state. A reverse vending
machine may sort and process containers mechanically; provided, that the entire
process is enclosed within the machine. In order to accept and temporarily
store all three (3) container types in a proportion commensurate with their
relative redemption rates, and to meet the requirements of certification as a
recycling facility, multiple grouping of reverse vending machines may be
necessary.
      2.   A "bulk reverse vending machine" is a reverse vending machine that
is larger than fifty (50) square feet; is designed to accept more than one
container at a time; and will pay by weight instead of by container.
REMEDY A VIOLATION: To bring the structure or other development into compliance
with state or local floodplain management regulations, or, if this is not
possible, to reduce the impacts of its noncompliance. Ways that impacts may be
reduced include protecting the structure or other affected development from
flood damage, implementing the enforcement provisions of the ordinance or
otherwise deterring future similar violations, or reducing federal financial
exposure with regard to the structure or other development.
RESTAURANT, BONA FIDE: A place which is regularly used and kept open for the
primary purpose of serving meals to guests for compensation and which maintains
a minimum of fifty one percent (51%) of its gross receipts from the sales of
meals. For the purpose of verifying compliance with the foregoing sales
requirement, the sales receipts, accounting ledgers and any other business
records pertaining to the sales of food and alcohol shall be open for
inspection by the chief of police or his or her designee during the regular
business hours of the restaurant upon seventy two (72) hours' prior written
notice.
REWORK OR REPAIR: As it relates to the oil industry, rework or repair is any
work at the ground surface of an existing well for recompletion with the
existing bore hole or by side tract operation beyond the extremities or sides
of the existing bore hole casing.
ROOM (HABITABLE): A room meeting the requirements of this title for sleeping,
living, cooking or dining purposes, excluding such enclosed places as closets,
pantries, bath or toilet rooms, service rooms, connecting corridors, laundries,
unfinished attics, foyers, storage spaces, cellars, utility rooms and similar
spaces.
SELF-SERVICE STORAGE FACILITY: A building consisting of individual, small,
self-contained units that are leased or owned for the storage of business and
household goods or contractor supplies.
SIGN: Any medium for visual communication, including copy, structure and
component parts, which is used or intended to be used to attract attention to,
identify or advertise an establishment, product, service, activity or location,
or to provide information. This definition shall not include the display of the
American flag, state flag or other similar political entities.
SIGN (ACCESSORY): A sign whose copy refers to the products, facilities or
services available on the premises. Accessory window signs include also
temporary posters attached to windows or placed within five feet (5') of any
window and legible off the site.
SIGN (ATTRACTION BOARD): A sign capable of supporting copy which is readily
changeable, such as a theater marquee, which refers to products, services or
coming events on the premises.
SIGN (BANNER, FLAG, PENNANT OR BALLOON): A visual display device, with or
without copy, which can vary in shape and is normally made of flexible
material, such as cloth, paper or plastic.
SIGN (BUILDING MOUNTED): A sign affixed to a building, including awnings and
windows.
SIGN (BUSINESS IDENTIFICATION): A sign whose copy is limited to the name, type
of business and address of the premises upon which the sign is located.
SIGN (CABINET): A building mounting sign which consists of a single, internally
lighted cabinet with the sign's lettering applied to that face rather than
separate letters or figures mounted individually onto a wall or building (e.g.,
channel letters).
SIGN (CANOPY OR AWNING): A sign painted, placed or installed on any awning or
canopy.
SIGN (CHANNEL LETTERS): A sign consisting of individual letters or figures
mounted separately on the wall or structure to spell out or otherwise represent
a sign's message copy.
SIGN (CONSTRUCTION): A sign containing information pertaining to a future
development on a site where the sign is located, including the name of the
product, developer, contractor, architect, financing source, future occupants
and other information directly related to the development.
SIGN (CONVENIENCE): A sign that conveys information, such as "restrooms", "no
parking", "entrance" or minor business identification for directional purposes,
and is designed to be viewed on site by pedestrians and/or motorists.
SIGN (COPY): Any words, letters, numbers, figures, designs or other symbolic
representations incorporated onto the face of a sign.
SIGN (DIRECTIONAL): A sign directing motorists or pedestrians to parking or
building facilities, or providing similar directional information.
SIGN (DIRECTORY): A sign to identify the name of the occupants within a
business or residential complex.
SIGN (ELECTRONIC MESSAGE): A sign having the capacity of presenting variable
message displays by projecting an electronically controlled light pattern
against a contrasting background to change messages by electronic process, or
by remote control.
SIGN (EXEMPT): A sign which is designated as not subject to certain regulations
of this title.
SIGN (FACE): The exterior surface of a sign, exclusive of structural supports,
on which is placed the sign copy.
SIGN (FREESTANDING): A sign supported upon the ground and not attached to any
building.
SIGN HEIGHT (FREESTANDING SIGN): The greatest vertical distance between the top
of the sign and the elevation measured at the roadbed of the nearest street.
SIGN HEIGHT (WALL OR BUILDING MOUNTED SIGN): The distance between the top of
the sign panel inserted into or placed on the wall and the roadbed of the
nearest street.
SIGN (IDENTIFICATION): A sign whose copy is limited to the name, type of
business, and address of a building, business, office, establishment, person or
activity on the premises where the sign is located.
SIGN (IDENTIFICATION, MAJOR): An identification sign facing the public streets
or pedestrian paths providing primary access to the premises identified by the
sign.
SIGN (IDENTIFICATION, SECONDARY): Any identification sign, other than a major
identification sign.
SIGN (ILLUMINATED): A sign in which a source of light is used in order to make
readable the message or attract attention to the sign. This definition includes
internally and externally lighted signs and glowing or radiating signs.
SIGN (MONUMENT): A freestanding sign whose support structures shall be a solid
base constructed of a permanent material, such as concrete block or brick.
SIGN (NONCONFORMING): A sign, outdoor advertising, structure or display of any
character which was lawfully erected or displayed, but which does not conform
with standards for location, size, illumination or movement for the district in
which it is located by reason of adoption or amendment of this title.
SIGN (OFF SITE ADVERTISING SIGN): A sign referring to any person,
establishment, merchandise, service, event or entertainment which is not
located, sold, produced, manufactured, provided or furnished on the premises
upon which the sign is located.
SIGN (ON SITE): A sign referring to a person, establishment, merchandise,
service, event or entertainment which is located, sold, produced, manufactured,
provided or furnished on the premises where the sign is located.
SIGN (PEDESTRIAN ORIENTED): A small sign readable primarily from the abutting
sidewalk or other walkway, but not generally from the street.
SIGN PERMIT: An entitlement from the city to place, erect or alter a sign.
SIGN (POLE): A freestanding on site sign whose support structures consist of
bare members having no architectural form and detailing to hide the steel or
wood members used to support the basic sign structure. These signs do not
include signs whose support structures consist of decorative timbers or masonry
structures.
SIGN (POLITICAL): A sign whose text indicates any one or a combination of the
following: a) the name and/or picture of an individual seeking election or
appointment to public office; or b) related to a forthcoming public election,
initiative or referendum.
SIGN (PORTABLE): Any sign designated to be moved easily and which is not
permanently affixed to either the ground, structure or a building.
SIGN PROGRAM (PLANNED): A plan providing coordinated signing for a business or
a contiguous group of businesses and utilizing one or more common design
elements, such as colors, materials, lettering, illumination, sign type and
sign shape.
SIGN REVIEW AUTHORITY: The entity that has been given the authority by this
title to review and approve or disapprove a sign or planned sign program, or
any appeals or variances connected with such signs. The reviewing authorities
include the city council and the planning director or her/his designee.
SIGN SIZE OR AREA: The entire area of the sign face, including nonstructural
perimeter trim, but excluding structures or uprights on which the sign is
supported.
SIGN (SPECIAL EVENT): A temporary sign advertising special events and
activities, such as grand openings, special sales, charitable events, Christmas
trees, fireworks and other events. Such signs are limited to the provisions
listed in this title.
SIGN STRUCTURE: The structural supports, uprights and bracing for a sign.
SIGN (SUBDIVISION): An on site or off site sign advertising the original sale,
leasing or renting of units within a subdivision.
SIGN (SURFACE AREA): The area of a sign measured by the smallest geometric
form, such as a square, rectangle, triangle or circle, or combination thereof,
which will encompass the face of the sign on which the message is displayed.
SIGN (TEMPORARY): A sign utilized to identify a business or other activity for
an interim period.
SIGN (UNDER CANOPY): A sign suspended beneath a projecting canopy, walkway
cover, awning, ceiling or marquee.
SIGN (WINDOW): Any written representation, emblem or other figure or similar
character painted on or otherwise affixed or oriented to a window.
SIGNIFICANT FEATURE: The natural or manmade elements embodying style or type of
cultural resource, design or general arrangement and components of an
improvement, including, but not limited to, the kind, color and texture of the
building materials, and the type and style of all windows, doors, lights, signs
and other fixtures appurtenant to such improvement.
SITE: A lot or group of contiguous lots not divided by an alley, street, other
right of way or city limit that is proposed for development in accord with the
provisions of this title, and is in a single ownership or has multiple owners,
all of whom join in an application for development.
SMOKING LOUNGE, PRIVATE: Any commercial or industrial facility or location
whose business operation, whether as its principal use or as an accessory use,
is denoted by the on site smoking or inhaling of tobacco, liquids, flavorings
and nicotine, through cigarettes, cigars, e-cigarettes or vapor smoking
devices, or any other substances.
SPECIFIC PLAN: A plan as defined in California Government Code section 65450.
STATE GEOLOGIST: The individual holding office as provided in the California
Public Resources Code section 677, article 3, chapter 2, division 1.
STEALTH FACILITY: Any communications facility designed to blend into the
surrounding environment. Examples of stealth facilities may include screened
roof mounted antennas, building mounted antennas painted to match the existing
structure, antennas integrated into architectural elements, and antenna
structures designed to look like light poles. Stealth facilities are also
referred to as concealed antennas.
STOCKYARD: Enclosure for the holding of cattle, swine, horses and other
domestic animals kept for slaughter, market or shipping.
STORY: That portion of a building included between the upper surface of any
floor and the upper surface of the floor next above, except that the topmost
story shall be that portion of a building included between the upper surface of
the topmost floor and the ceiling above. The basement or cellar shall not be
considered a story unless the upper surface of the floor above is more than six
feet (6') above the average level of the highest and lowest points of the
ground surface immediately adjacent to the exterior walls of the building.
STREET, ARTERIAL: A highway intended to serve through traffic, where access
rights are restricted and intersections with other streets or highways may be
limited.
STREET, COLLECTOR: A street which is intended to serve intensive residential
land use, multiple-family dwellings or to convey traffic through a subdivision
to roads of equal capacity or greater. It may also serve as cul-de-sac in
industrial or commercial use areas, but shall not exceed six hundred sixty feet
(660') in length when so used.
STREET, CUL-DE-SAC: A road open at one end only, with special provisions for
turning around and the further extension of which is precluded by the land
division design.
STREET, EXPRESSWAY: A highway for the through traffic to which access from
abutting property is restricted and which intersections with other streets or
highways shall be limited to approximately one-half (1/2) mile intervals.
STREET, HIGHWAY: Roads, streets, boulevards, lanes, courts, places, commons,
trails, ways or other rights of way or easements used for or lay out and
intended for the public passage of vehicles or of vehicles and persons.
STREET, HIGHWAY OR PUBLIC RIGHT OF WAY: A public thoroughfare, avenue, road,
highway, boulevard, parkway, way, drive, lane, court or private easement,
providing the primary roadway to and egress from the property abutting thereon.
STREET (PRIVATE): A private reciprocal easement providing the primary roadway
to and egress from the property abutting thereon.
STRUCTURAL ALTERATION: Any change in alteration to a structure involving
bearing wall, column, beam or girder, floor or ceiling joists, roof rafters,
roof diaphragms, foundations, piles, retaining walls or similar components.
STRUCTURE: Anything constructed or erected that requires a location on the
ground, including a building or a swimming pool, but not including a fence or a
wall used as a fence if the height does not exceed six feet (6'), or access
drives or walks.
STRUCTURE (MAIN): A structure housing the principal use of a site or
functioning as the principal use.
SUBDIVIDER: A person, firm, corporation, partnership or association who
proposes to divide, divides or cause to be divided real property into a
subdivision for himself or for others, except that employees and consultants of
such persons or entities, acting in such capacity, are not "subdividers".
SUBDIVISION: The division, by any subdivider, of any unit improved or
unimproved land, or any portion thereof, shown on the latest equalized county
assessment roll as a unit or as contiguous units, for the purpose of sale,
lease or financing, whether immediate or future, except for leases or
agricultural land for agricultural purposes. Property shall be considered as
contiguous units, even if it is separated by roads, streets, utility easement
or railroad rights of way. "Subdivision" includes a condominium project, as
defined in Civil Code section 1350, a community apartment project, as defined
in Business And Professions Code section 11004, or the conversion of five (5)
or more existing dwelling units to a stock cooperative, as defined in Business
And Professions Code section 11003.2.
SUBSTANTIAL CHANGE: A revision to an adopted or proposed application or permit
which would increase the intensity of site use or project related traffic,
increase the environmental impacts of the development, require a modification
of approval findings, or modify conditions of approval specifically imposed by
the approving body.
SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT: Any repair, reconstruction or improvement of a
structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds fifty percent (50%) of the
market value of the structure either:
   (A)   Before the improvement or repair is started; or
   (B)   If the structure has been damaged and is being restored, before the
damage occurred. For the purposes of this definition, "substantial improvement"
occurs when the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor or other
structural part of the building commences, whether or not that alteration
affects the external dimensions of the structure.
SUMP OR SUMP PIT: As it relates to the oil field, an earthen pit for discharge
of oil field waste.
SUPPORTIVE HOUSING: Housing with no limit on length of stay, that is occupied
by the target population, and that is linked to on or off site services that
assist the supportive housing resident in retaining the housing, improving his
or her health status, and maximizing his or her ability to live and, when
possible, work in the community, as defined in Government Code section 50675.14
(b).
SWIMMING POOLS AND HOT TUBS: Water filled enclosures having a depth of eighteen
inches (18") or more used for swimming or recreation.
TARGET POPULATION: Adults with low income having one or more disabilities,
including mental illness, HIV or AIDS, substance abuse, or other chronic health
conditions, or individuals eligible for service provided under the Lanterman
development disabilities services act and may, among other populations, include
adults, emancipated minors, families with children, elderly persons, young
adults aging out of the foster care system, individuals exiting from
institutional settings (e.g., jails, hospitals, prisons, and institutes of
mental disease), veterans, or homeless people, as defined in Government Code
section 50675.14.
TATTOOING: The act or process of marking or coloring the skin of any person by
the insertion of pigment under the skin or by the production of scars.
TEMPORARY USE: A use established for a fixed period of time with the intent to
discontinue such use upon expiration of the fixed time period.
TENTATIVE MAP, REVISED: A modification of an approved tentative map wherein the
design of the land division is substantially changed from the approved
tentative map.
TOBACCO SHOP: Any facility or business establishment, whether as its principal
use or as an accessory use, that includes the sale of tobacco products,
including, but not limited to, cigars, pipe tobacco, smokeless tobacco, e-
cigarettes, vapor cigarettes and smoking accessories.
TRAILER: Any vehicle or structure used for sleeping, living, business or
storage purposes and having no foundation, other than wheels, blocks, skids,
jacks or skirting, and which is, has been, or reasonably may be, equipped with
wheels or other devices for transportation of the structure from one place to
another.
TRAILER (NONRESIDENTIAL): Any trailer used as a construction building,
temporary office or the like.
TRAILER (TRAVEL): A vehicle or portable structure built on a chassis that is
designed to be used as a temporary dwelling for travel and recreational
purposes having a body not exceeding eight feet (8') in width.
TRANSITIONAL HOUSING: Buildings configured as rental housing developments, but
operated under program requirements that call for the termination of assistance
and recirculation of the assisted unit to another eligible program recipient at
some predetermined future point in time, which shall be no less than six (6)
months, as defined in Government Code section 50675.2(h).
TREE EXPERT: A California registered professional forester or an arborist
certified by the western chapter of the International Society Of Arborists.
TRUCK (LARGE): A truck weighing eleven thousand five hundred (11,500) pounds or
more unloaded.
USE: The purpose for which a site or structure is arranged, designed, intended,
constructed, erected, moved, altered or enlarged for which either a site or
structure is or may be occupied or maintained.
USED: Arranged, designed, constructed, altered, rented, leased, sold, occupied
and intended to be occupied.
VARIANCE: A grant of relief from the requirements of this code that permits
construction or use of land, in a manner that would otherwise be prohibited by
this code as provided in section
6-2-6 of this title.
VEHICLE: See definition of Automobile/Automotive.
VISIBLE: Likely to be noticed by a person of average height walking on a street
or sidewalk.
WAREHOUSE (MINI): See definition of Self-Service Storage Facility.
WAREHOUSING: The use of a building or buildings for the storage of goods of any
type, when such building or buildings contain more than five hundred (500)
square feet of storage space and where no retail operation is conducted.
WELL (OIL): Any well or hole already drilled, being drilled or to be drilled
from the surface into the earth which is used or intended to be used in
connection with the drilling for, prospecting for, or production of oil,
natural gas or other hydrocarbon substances. The term "oil well" shall include
injection wells for the purpose of secondary recovery and disposal wells for
the purpose of disposing wastewater. It shall also include any well for the
discovery of geothermal resources or any well of lands producing geothermal
resources or reasonably presumed to contain geothermal resources, or any
special well, converted, producing wells or reactivating abandoned wells
employed for reinjecting geothermal resources or the residue thereof.
WHIP ANTENNA: An antenna that transmits signals in three hundred sixty degrees
(360o). Whip antennas are typically cylindrical in shape and are less than six
inches (6") in diameter and measure up to eighteen feet (18') in height. Also
called omnidirectional, stick or pipe antennas.
WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS FACILITY: A land use facility supporting antennas and
microwave dishes that send and/or receive radio frequency signals.
Communications facilities include structures or towers, and accessory
buildings.
YARD (FRONT): A yard extending across the full width of a site, the depth of
which is the minimum horizontal distance between the front property line and a
line parallel thereto on the site.
YARD (JUNK OR SALVAGE):
   (A)   An area, improved or unimproved in excess of two hundred (200) square
feet that:
      1.   Upon which or in which is stored or kept junk, salvage materials,
scrap metals, inoperative vehicles or equipment, or any combination thereof;
      2.   Upon which vehicles or equipment or other property is dismantled or
wrecked; or
      3.   Upon which or in which salvage materials, inoperative vehicles,
equipment or parts therefrom, scrap metals or any combination thereof is kept
for resale.
   (B)   Materials or equipment kept on any premises for use in construction of
any building on such premises, and materials and equipment customarily used on
a farm or ranch, and so situated, shall not be deemed "junk" or "salvage
material" within the meaning of this definition.
YARD OR COURT: An open space on the same site as a structure, unoccupied and
unobstructed by structures from the ground upward or from the floor level of a
structure requiring a yard or court upward from that floor level, except as
otherwise provided in this title, including a front yard, side yard, rear yard
or court between structures.
YARD (REAR): A yard extending across the full width of a site, the depth of
which is the minimum horizontal distance between the rear property line and a
line parallel thereto on the site, except that on a corner lot the rear yard
shall extend only to the side yard abutting a street.
YARD (SIDE): A yard extending from the rear line of the required front yard, or
the front property line of the site where no front yard is required, to the
front line of the required rear yard, or the rear property line of the site
where no rear yard is required, the width of which is the horizontal distance
between the side property line and line parallel thereto on the site, except
that the side yard on the street side of a corner lot shall extend to the rear
lot line.
ZONING DISTRICT: Those classifications of land, as included herein and
identified on the zoning map, which regulate land use and establish standards
by which land may be developed and utilized. (Ord. 768-08, 8-19-2008; amd. Ord.
782-10, 4-6-2010; Ord. 812-15, 7-7-2015; Ord. 813-15, 7-7-2015; Ord. 814-15, 7-
7-2015; Ord. 815-16, 5-3-2016; Ord. 828-17, 8-1-2017; Ord. 842-21, 9-7-2021;
Ord. 849-22, 12-6-2022)
 
Notes
1 1. GOV § 65864.
1 1. PRC §2727.1.
CHAPTER 2
PERMITS AND APPROVALS
SECTION:
6-2-1: Purpose And Intent
6-2-2: Development Review Process
6-2-3: General Plan Amendment
6-2-4: Zoning Ordinance Amendment
6-2-5: Conditional Use Permit
6-2-6: Variance
6-2-7: Temporary Land Use Permit
6-2-8: Development Agreement
6-2-9: Site Plan Review/Design Review
6-2-10: Director’s Permit
6-2-11: Temporary Use Permit
6-2-12: Special Event Permit
6-2-13: Tenant Improvements
6-2-14: Nonconforming Use And Structures
6-2-15: Application Filing
6-2-16: Public Hearing And Notification Procedures
6-2-17: Approval To Extend With Land
6-2-18: Effective Date Of Decision
6-2-19: Lapse Of Approvals And Extensions Of Time
6-2-20: Appeals
6-2-21: Revocation Of Permits
6-2-1: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
These provisions are intended to prescribe the procedure for filing
applications for permits, appeals, amendments and approvals when required or
permitted by this title. These provisions will provide the framework by which
applications will be determined to be complete and permitted to be filed. (Ord.
802-14, 2-4-2014)
6-2-2: DEVELOPMENT REVIEW PROCESS:
This section establishes and explains the processes and procedures that must be
followed, and the application types required to be filed, before new land uses
or modifications of existing land uses can be legally initiated.
   (A)   Adequate And Impartial Review: The city shall maintain appropriate
processes and procedures to ensure that the proposed development projects are
afforded an adequate and impartial review in accordance with city ordinances,
resolutions, policies and standards.
   (B)   Inconsistent Application: Whenever an application that is inconsistent
with the general plan and/or this title is filed, that inconsistency shall be
noted as the part of the application. In addition, filing of a zoning ordinance
amendment to make the original application consistent shall be filed
concurrently.
   (C)   Denial Or Approval With Conditions: The approving authority for the
original application may deny the application or approve it, conditioned upon
obtaining the necessary change in zoning to eliminate the inconsistency prior
to recordation of a final map in the instance of a division of land or prior to
filing of any applications for construction permits if a division of land is
not involved. (Ord. 802-14, 2-4-2014)
6-2-3: GENERAL PLAN AMENDMENT:
   (A)   Purpose And Intent: As conditions within the city change it may, from
time to time, become necessary to amend the general plan to enhance its
effectiveness. In addition, state law requires that the general plan be
periodically reviewed and updated. The purpose of this section is to provide a
method for amending the general plan to ensure its continued effectiveness.
   (B)   Authority: The city council may amend all or part of the general plan,
or any element thereof. All zone districts, specific plans (for which a
development agreement or vesting subdivision or parcel map has not been
adopted) and any other plans of the city that are affected by a general plan
amendment, and which by law must be consistent with the general plan, shall be
reviewed and amended concurrently, to ensure consistency between the general
plan and implementing zoning, specific plans, and other plans.
   (C)   Restriction On Number of Amendments: Elements of the general plan
shall be amended no more frequently than permitted by state law.
TABLE 2.A
CONSISTENCY OF CITY ZONE DISTRICTS WITH
GENERAL PLAN LAND USE DESIGNATIONS
Zone Districts General Plan Designations
               A NR PF OS RR RE LDR MDR HDR MU C I SP
Zone Districts General Plan Designations
               A NR PF OS RR RE LDR MDR HDR MU C I SP
SP                                                 C
CF             C C  C  C  C  C  C   C   C   C  C C
H              C C  C  C                       C C
DI             C C  C  C  C  C  C   C   C   C  C C
PE             C C  C  C  C  C  C   C   C   C  C C
RS                  C     C  C  C
R-1                 C           C
R-2                 C               C       C
R-3                 C                   C   C  C
MU                  C               C   C   C  C
GC                  C                          C
I                   C                            C
A              C C  C  C
NR             C C  C  C
 
“C” denotes that zone district is consistent with the applicable general plan
designation.
Key to table 2.A:
General Plan Land Use Designations
General Plan Land Use Designations
Residential designations:
RR  Rural residential
RS  Estate residential
LDR Low density residential
MDR Medium density residential
HDR High density residential
Public facilities designations:
PF  Public facilities
P   Parks
S   Schools
PUB Public utilities/buildings
AP  Airport
CD  Cemetery
Commercial designations:
C   Commercial
MU  Mixed use
Open space designations:
OS  Open space
NR  Natural resources
A   Agricultural
Industrial designations:
I   Industrial
 
Zone Districts
Zone Districts
Special districts:
SP  Specific plan
CF  Community facilities
H   Airport approach height overlay
DI  Drilling island
PE  Petroleum extraction overlay
NR  Natural resource
Residential districts:
RS  Residential suburban
R-1 Single-family residential
R-2 Limited multiple-family residential
R-3 Multiple-family dwelling
Commercial districts:
GC  General commercial
MU  Mixed use
Industrial districts:
I   Industrial
Agricultural districts:
A   Agricultural
 
   (D)   Initiation Of Amendments to The General Plan: An amendment to the
general plan or any element thereof may be initiated by any of the following
actions:
      1.   A request made and approved by the planning commission to the city
council;
      2.   A request made and approved by the city council;
      3.   An application from a property owner or his/her authorized agent;
provided, that such application involves the development or modification of
property located within the area affected by such amendment;
      4.   An application from any affected party; provided, that such
application involves only revisions to the goals, objectives, policies and
implementation programs of the general plan; or
      5.   A request made by the planning director to the planning commission
subject to approval by the planning commission.
   (E)   Authority And Hearings: Authority for approval of general plan
amendments shall be vested in the city council. The planning commission shall
forward recommendations to the city council regarding general plan amendments.
      1.   Planning Commission Review:
         (a)   Following receipt, in proper form, of a completed amendment
application or duly adopted resolution and completion of required environmental
review, a public hearing before the planning commission shall be noticed and
held.
         (b)   The planning commission shall make a written recommendation on
the proposed amendment to the city council to approve, approve in modified
form, or disapprove.
      2.   City Council Review And Action: A public hearing before the city
council shall be noticed and held after a recommendation is made by the
planning commission to approve a proposed general plan amendment, appeal of a
decision by the planning commission to approve or disapprove a proposed general
plan amendment, in accordance with the provisions of section
6-2-16 of this chapter, or a discussion by the city council or any of its
members to hear the matter. The city council may approve, approve with
modifications, or disapprove any such proposed amendment. Prior to city council
action, any substantial modification proposed by the city council that was not
previously considered by the planning commission shall first be referred to the
planning commission for consideration and recommendation. Failure of the
planning commission to report within forty-five (45) calendar days, or within
the time period set by the city council, shall be deemed a recommendation for
approval.
   (F)   Required Findings: An amendment to the general plan shall not be
approved unless all of the following findings are made:
      1.   The proposed amendment is consistent with the goals, objectives,
policies and programs of the general plan, or with the general plan as revised
by the proposed amendment, and will not result in any internal inconsistencies
within the general plan; and
      2.   The proposed amendment will not adversely affect the public health,
safety or general welfare; and
      3.   The proposed amendment is consistent with the purposes and intent of
this title, unless such amendment proposes to change, supplement or alter any
part of this title, whereas said amendment must be consistent with all
applicable sections, including these findings; and
      4.   The potential environmental impacts of the proposed amendment are
insignificant, have been mitigated, or there are overriding considerations that
outweigh the potential impacts. (Ord. 802-14, 2-4-2014; amd. Ord. 849-22, 12-6-
2022)
6-2-4: ZONING ORDINANCE AMENDMENT:
   (A)   Purpose And Intent: This section establishes the procedures for
amending zone district regulations and boundaries, as well as other provisions
of this title. The amendment process is necessary to provide and ensure
consistency between this title, the general plan and state law, to increase the
effectiveness of this title, and to improve clarity in implementing general
plan goals, objectives and policies.
   (B)   Zoning Ordinance Amendments And Other Provisions: An amendment to zone
district regulations and boundaries or other provisions of this title may be
initiated by any of the following actions:
      1.   A request made and approved by the planning commission;
      2.   A request made and approved by the city council;
      3.   A request made by the planning director to the planning commission,
subject to approval by the planning commission;
      4.   An application from a property owner or his/her authorized agent;
provided, that such application involves the development or modification of
property located within the area affected by such amendment; or
      5.   An application from any affected party; provided, that such
application involves only revisions to the text of this title and does not
require redistricting of properties for which the affected party is not the
owner or the authorized representative of the owner.
   (C)   Authority: Authority for approval of amendments to this title,
including amendments to the official zoning map, shall be vested in the city
council. The planning commission shall forward recommendations to the city
council regarding such amendments.
      1.   Planning Commission Review:
         (a)   A public hearing before the planning commission shall be noticed
and held within the time limits specified by state law, after an initiated
application is deemed complete and after required environmental documentation
has been completed. A longer period of time may be prescribed by the city
council in the case of a city initiated amendment.
         (b)   The planning commission shall recommend to the city council an
approval, approval with modifications, or shall disapprove the proposed
amendment.
         (c)   A planning commission action disapproving a proposed amendment,
regardless of how such amendment was initiated, shall be final unless appealed
pursuant to the appeal provisions of section
6-2-20 of this chapter.
      2.   City Council Review And Action: A public hearing before the city
council shall be noticed and held within sixty (60) days after a recommendation
by the planning commission to approve a proposed amendment to this title or to
the official zoning map, or appeal of a decision by the planning commission to
approve or deny a proposed amendment to this title or to the official zoning
map. The city council may approve, approve with modifications, or disapprove
any proposed amendment. Prior to city council action, any modification not
previously considered by the planning commission may first be referred to the
planning commission for a recommendation. The proposed modification shall be
deemed approved by the planning commission should the planning commission fail
to review the proposed modification within the time limits established by the
city council.
   (D)   Required Findings: All of the following findings shall be made prior
to the adoption of any amendment to this title, including amendments to the
official zoning map:
      1.   The proposed zoning ordinance amendment is consistent with the
goals, objectives, policies and programs of the general plan and is necessary
and desirable to implement the provision of the general plan; and
      2.   The proposed zoning ordinance amendment will not adversely affect
the public health, safety and welfare, or result in an illogical land use
pattern; and
      3.   The proposed zoning ordinance amendment is consistent with the
purpose and intent of the remainder of this title not under consideration; and
      4.   The proposed zoning ordinance amendment would not result in a
significant effect on the environment, the environmental impacts have been
mitigated, or there are overriding considerations that outweigh the potential
impacts.
   (E)   Prezoning:
      1.   For the purpose of establishing zoning regulations that would become
effective upon annexation, property outside the corporate boundaries of the
city, but within the sphere of influence, may be classified within one or more
zone districts in the same manner and subject to the same procedural
requirements as prescribed herein for the properties within the city.
      2.   Upon passage of an ordinance establishing the applicable prezoning
designation for property outside the city, the official zoning map shall be
revised to identify the zone districts applicable to such property with the
label “pre” in addition to such other map designations as may be applicable.
(Ord. 802-14, 2-4-2014; amd. Ord. 849-22, 12-6-2022)
6-2-5: CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT:
   (A)   Purpose And Intent: A conditional use permit is intended to control
the establishment of those uses that have some special impact or uniqueness,
such that their effect on the surrounding environment cannot be determined in
advance of the use being proposed for a particular location. The conditional
use permit application provides for the review of the location and design of
the proposed use, configuration of improvements, potential impact on the
surrounding area from the proposed use, and the evaluation of the use based on
fixed and established standards. The review also determines whether the
proposed use should be permitted by weighing the public need for and benefits
to be derived from the use against any adverse impact it may cause.
   (B)   Authority: Authority for approval of conditional use permits shall be
vested in the planning commission.
   (C)   Application: An application for a conditional use permit shall be
filed with the planning and community development department in a manner
prescribed by the planning director.
   (D)   Public Hearing: The planning commission shall consider each
application for a conditional use permit at a noticed public hearing.
   (E)   Findings: Following review and consideration of an application, the
planning commission, or the city council on appeal, may approve a conditional
use permit application in whole or in part, with or without conditions,
provided the planning commission prepares a written decision which contains the
findings of fact upon which the planning commission’s decision is based. In
preparing this written decision, all of the following findings of fact must be
made in an affirmative manner:
      1.   The proposed use is permitted within the subject zone district
pursuant to the provisions of this section, complies with all applicable
provisions of this title, is consistent with the goals, policies and objectives
of the general plan, and is consistent with the applicable development policies
and standards of the city; and
      2.   The proposed use would not impair the integrity and character of the
zone district in which it is to be established or located; and
      3.   The site is suitable for the type and intensity of use or
development proposed; and
      4.   There are adequate provisions for water, sanitation, public
utilities and services to ensure public health and safety; and
      5.   The proposed use will not be detrimental to the public health,
safety or welfare, or materially injurious to properties and improvements in
the vicinity; and
      6.   The proposed use would not result in a significant effect on the
environment, unless overriding considerations outweigh the potential impacts.
   (F)   Conditions Of Approval: In granting a conditional use permit, the
planning commission, or the city council on appeal, shall require that the use
and development of the property conform with the site plan, architectural
drawings, statements submitted in support of the application, and with such
modifications thereof as may be deemed necessary to protect the public health,
safety, and general welfare and to secure the objectives of the general plan.
The planning commission, or the city council on appeal, may also impose such
other conditions as may be deemed necessary to achieve these purposes,
including, but not limited to, the following matters:
      1.   Requirements for setbacks, yard areas and open spaces.
      2.   Fences, walls, buffers and screening.
      3.   Parking, parking areas and vehicular ingress and egress in addition
to the minimum requirements of chapter 14 of this title.
      4.   Landscaping and maintenance of landscaping and grounds.
      5.   Regulations of signs.
      6.   Control of noise, vibration, odors and other potentially dangerous
or objectionable elements.
      7.   Limits on hours of operation or duration of approval.
      8.   Time period within which the proposed use shall be developed.
      9.   Requirements for street improvements and dedications.
      10.   Building design and elevations.
      11.   Such other conditions as may be determined to assure that
development will be in accordance with the intent and purposes of this title.
      12.   Reasonable guarantees of compliance with required conditions, such
as a deed restriction or requiring the applicant to furnish security in the
form of money or surety bond in the amount fixed by the administering agency.
      13.   Requirements for periodical review by the planning commission, and
such other conditions as the planning commission may deem necessary to ensure
compatibility with surrounding uses, to preserve the public health, safety and
welfare, and to enable the planning commission to make the findings required by
subsection (E) of this section.
   (H)   Revisions/Modifications: Requests to revise or modify an approved
conditional use permit may be requested by the applicant or the planning
commission.
      1.   Revisions/Modifications Requested by Applicant: A revision or
modification to an approved conditional use permit, including, but not limited
to, change in conditions, expansions, intensification, location, hours of
operation or change of ownership, may be requested by an applicant. The
applicant shall supply necessary information as determined by the planning
director to indicate reasons for the requested change. The requested revision
or modification shall be processed in the same manner as the original
conditional use permit, unless determined by the Planning Director to be in
substantial conformance per section 6-2-5 (H)(3) below, at which time the
Planner Director can ministerially process the revision or modification.
      2.   Review by The Planning Commission: The planning commission may
periodically review any conditional use permit to ensure that it is being
operated in a manner consistent with conditions of approval or in a manner not
detrimental to the public health, safety or welfare, or materially injurious to
properties in the vicinity. If, after review, the planning commission deems
that there is sufficient evidence to warrant a full examination, a public
hearing date shall be set. At such public hearing, the planning commission may
modify or revoke the conditional use permit pursuant to the provisions of this
title.
      3.   Substantial Conformance: Changes to an approved conditional use
permit that are determined by the planning director to be de minimis as defined
below and in conformance with previously approved plans can be approved under a
substantial conformance finding. This determination may be appealed to the
planning commission by a stakeholder with a substantiated interest. The
Director must make the following findings in order to determine substantial
conformance:
         (a)   The proposed amendment will not adversely affect the public
health, safety or general welfare; and
         (b)   The proposed amendment is consistent with the goals, objectives
and policies of the general plan, or any applicable specific plan; and
         (c)   The proposed amendment is consistent with the purposes and
intent of this title, unless such amendment proposes to change, supplement or
alter any part of this title, whereas said amendment must be consistent with
all applicable sections, including these findings; and
         (d)   The previously approved use will continue as the primary use and
any new proposed uses will be ancillary to the primary approved use.
         (e)   The proposed amendment does not increase the square footage of
the previously approved use by more than 15%.
         (f)   The potential significant environmental impacts of the proposed
amendment are insignificant or considered exempt, remain covered by a
previously filed environmental determination, have been mitigated, or there are
overriding considerations that outweigh the potential impacts. (Ord. 802-14, 2-
4-2014; amd. Ord. 849-22, 12-6-2022)
6-2-6: VARIANCE:
   (A)   Purpose And Intent: The purpose of a variance is to provide for equity
in use of property, and to prevent unnecessary hardships that might result from
a strict or literal interpretation and enforcement of certain regulations
prescribed by this title.
   (B)   Authority: The authority to grant a minor variance shall be vested
with the planning director. The authority to grant a major variance, as defined
in subsection (D) of this section, shall be vested with the planning
commission.
      1.   A variance from the terms of the regulations of this title shall be
granted only when it is demonstrated that the strict application of the zoning
regulations deprives such property of privileges enjoyed by other properties in
the general vicinity and in the same zone district due to special circumstances
applicable to the property in question, including size, shape, topography,
location or surroundings. Consequently,
      2.   a variance to a zoning regulation prescribed by this title may be
granted with respect to development standards, including, but not limited to,
walls, fences, screening and landscaping, site area, width and depth, coverage,
front, side and rear yards, height of structures, usable open space, and on
street and off-street parking and loading facilities.
      3.   In approving a variance, the planning director and planning
commission may impose reasonable conditions of approval.
      4.   Should the planning director deny, modify or condition the variance
sought pursuant to this section, the planning commission may hear the minor
variance on appeal.
   (C)   Minor Variances: The planning director may approve requests for minor
variances to modify the following requirements of this title:
      1.   Minor parking lot improvements.
      2.   Up to thirty percent (30%) of parking and loading space
requirements, not to exceed two (2) spaces.
      3.   Up to twenty percent (20%) of front yard setback requirements.
      4.   Up to forty percent (40%) of side yard setback requirements, but no
closer than three feet (3') from the side property lines.
      5.   Up to twenty five percent (25%) of rear yard setback requirements,
but not closer than five feet (5') from the rear property line.
      6.   Up to ten percent (10%) of lot area requirements, excluding lot area
and dimension requirements.
      7.   Up to ten percent (10%) of the maximum building coverage
requirements.
      8.   Up to ten percent (10%) of maximum gross floor area requirements.
   (D)   Major Variances: Any request for a variance other than a minor
variance shall be termed a major variance, and shall be reviewed and acted upon
by the planning commission.
   (E)   Required Findings: The planning commission and/or the planning
director shall make all the following findings in a decision to grant a
variance request:
      1.   Strict or literal interpretation and enforcement of the specified
regulation would result in practical difficulty or unnecessary hardship,
excepting financial hardships, not otherwise shared by others within the
surrounding area or vicinity; and
      2.   There are exceptional or extraordinary circumstances or conditions
applicable to the property involved or to the intended use of the property that
do not apply generally to other properties in the vicinity and under the same
zoning classification; and
      3.   The strict interpretation and enforcement of the specified
regulation would deprive the applicant of privileges enjoyed by the owners of
other properties in the vicinity and under the same zoning classification; and
      4.   The granting of the variance will not constitute a grant of special
privilege inconsistent with the limitations on other properties in the vicinity
and under the same zoning classification; and
      5.   The granting of the variance will not be detrimental to the public
health, safety or welfare, or materially injurious to properties or
improvements in the vicinity; and
      6.   The granting of the variance is consistent with the objectives and
policies of the general plan and the intent of this title.
   (F)   Conditions: In granting a variance the planning commission, or the
city council on appeal, shall require that the use and development of the
property conform with the site plan, architectural drawings, statements
submitted in support of the application, and with such modifications thereof as
may be deemed necessary to protect the public health, safety, and general
welfare, and to secure the objectives of the general plan. The planning
commission, or the city council on appeal, may also impose such other
conditions as may be deemed necessary to achieve these purposes, including, but
not limited to, the following matters:
      1.   Requirements for open spaces, fences, walls, landscaping, screening
buffers, erosion control measures and flood control measures, including
maintenance thereof;
      2.   Requirements for dedications and street improvements;
      3.   Regulation of vehicular ingress and egress and traffic circulation;
      4.   Regulation of hours of operation and such other conditions deemed
necessary to ensure compatibility with surrounding land uses to preserve the
public health, safety and welfare. (Ord. 802-14, 2-4-2014; amd. Ord. 849-22,
12-6-2022)
6-2-7: TEMPORARY LAND USE PERMIT:
   (A)   Purpose And Intent: A temporary land use permit is intended to
function in much the same manner as a conditional use permit, but shall be
subject to time limitations regarding the length of time said temporary land
use permit remains effective. The temporary land use permit is intended to
control the establishment of those uses that have some special impact or
uniqueness, such that their effect on the surrounding environment cannot be
determined in advance of the use being proposed for a particular location. The
temporary land use permit application provides for the review of the location,
length of time, and design of the proposed use, configuration of improvement,
potential impact on the surrounding area from the proposed use, and the
evaluation of the use based on fixed and established standards. The review also
determines whether the proposed use should be permitted by weighing the public
need for and the benefits to be derived from the use against any adverse impact
it may cause.
   (B)   Authority: Authority for approval of temporary land use permits shall
be vested in the planning commission.
   (C)   Application: An application for a temporary land use permit shall be
filed with the planning and community development department in a manner
prescribed by the planning director.
   (D)   Public Hearing: The planning commission shall consider each
application for a temporary land use permit at a noticed public hearing.
   (E)   Findings: Following review and consideration of an application, the
planning commission, or the city council on appeal, may approve a temporary
land use permit application in whole or in part, with or without conditions,
provided the planning commission prepares a written decision which contains the
findings of fact upon which the planning commission’s decision is based. In
preparing this written decision, all of the following findings of fact must be
made in an affirmative manner:
      1.   The proposed use is permitted within the subject zone district
pursuant to the provisions of this section, complies with all applicable
provisions of this title, is consistent with the goals, policies and objectives
of the general plan, and is consistent with the applicable development policies
and standards of the city; and
      2.   The proposed use would not impair the integrity and character of the
zone district in which it is to be established or located for the length of
time that the land use permit is effective; and
      3.   The site is suitable for the type, intensity of use or development,
and length of time; and
      4.   There are adequate provisions for water, sanitation, public
utilities and services to ensure public health and safety; and
      5.   The proposed use will not be detrimental to the public health,
safety or welfare, or materially injurious to properties and improvements in
the vicinity; and
      6.   The proposed use would not result in a significant effect on the
environment, unless overriding considerations outweigh the potential impacts.
   (F)   Conditions Of Approval: In granting a temporary land use permit, the
planning commission, or the city council on appeal, shall require that the use
and development of the property conform with the site plan, architectural
drawings, statements submitted in support of the application, and with such
modifications thereof as may be deemed necessary to protect the public health,
safety and general welfare, and to secure the objectives of the general plan.
The planning commission, or the city council on appeal, may also impose such
other conditions as may be deemed necessary to achieve these purposes,
including, but not limited to, the following matters:
      1.   Requirements for setbacks, yard areas and open spaces.
      2.   Fences, walls, buffers and screening.
      3.   Parking, parking areas, and vehicular ingress and egress in addition
to the minimum requirements of chapter 14 of this title.
      4.   Landscaping and maintenance of landscaping and grounds.
      5.   Regulations of signs.
      6.   Control of noise, vibration, odors and other potentially dangerous
or objectionable elements.
      7.   Limits on hours of operation or duration of approval.
      8.   Time period within which the proposed use shall be developed.
      9.   Requirements for street improvements and dedications.
      10.   Use of land, building design and elevations.
      11.   Such other conditions as may be determined to assure that
development will be in accordance with the intent and purposes of this title.
      12.   Reasonable guarantees of compliance with required conditions, such
as a deed restriction or requiring the applicant to furnish security in the
form of money or surety bond in the amount fixed by the administering agency.
      13.   Requirements for periodical review by the planning commission, and
such other conditions as the planning commission may deem necessary to ensure
compatibility with surrounding uses, to preserve the public health, safety and
welfare, and to enable the planning commission to make the findings required by
subsection (E) of this section.
   (G)   Revisions/Modifications: Requests to revise or modify an approved
temporary land use permit may be requested by the applicant or the planning
commission.
      1.   Revisions/Modifications Requested By Applicant: A revision or
modification to an approved temporary land use permit including, but not
limited to, change in conditions, expansions, intensification, location, hours
of operation, change of ownership, or length of time permitted may be requested
by an applicant. The applicant shall supply necessary information as determined
by the planning director to indicate reasons for the requested change. The
requested revision or modification shall be processed in the same manner as the
original land use permit.
      2.   Review By The Planning Commission: The planning commission may
periodically review any temporary land use permit to ensure that it is being
operated in a manner consistent with conditions of approval or in an manner not
detrimental to the public health, safety or welfare, or materially injurious to
properties in the vicinity. If, after review, the planning commission deems
that there is sufficient evidence to warrant a full examination, a public
hearing date shall be set. At such public hearing, the planning commission may
modify or revoke the temporary land use permit pursuant to the provisions of
this title. (Ord. 802-14, 2-4-2014; amd. Ord. 849-22, 12-6-2022)
6-2-8: DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT:
Development agreements may be entered into and implemented by the city pursuant
to the following procedures:
   (A)   Purpose:
      1.   The legislature of the state of California adopted Government Code
section 65864 et seq., authorizing local governments to enter into development
agreements with applicants for development projects. Under appropriate
circumstances, development agreements will strengthen the public planning
process, encourage private participation in comprehensive planning by providing
a greater degree of certainty in that process, reduce the economic costs of
development, allow for the orderly planning of public improvements and services
and the allocation of costs, therefor, in order to achieve the maximum
utilization of public and private resources in the development process, and
assure, to the extent feasible, that appropriate measures to enhance and
protect the environment of the city are achieved.
      2.   The objective of such an agreement is to provide assurances that,
upon approval of the project, the applicant may proceed with the project in
accord with existing policies, rules and regulations, subject to the conditions
of approval, thus vesting certain development rights in the property.
Development agreements will also ensure that all conditions of approval,
including the construction of off site improvements made necessary by such land
developments, will proceed in an orderly and economical fashion to the benefit
of the city. The purpose of this section is to establish procedures and
requirements for consideration of development agreements by the city consistent
with state law.
   (B)   Application Requirements And Forms:
      1.   Form Of Application: An applicant may propose that the city consider
entering into a development agreement pursuant to California Government Code
article 2.5, title 7, commencing with section 65864, by filing an application
with the planning and community development department and demonstrate that the
project satisfies the eligibility requirements of this section. The form of
said application shall be provided by the planning director.
      2.   Applicant: An application may be filed only by the property owner or
other person having a legal or equitable interest in the property that is the
subject of the development agreement or by that person’s authorized agent. The
term “applicant” shall also include any successor in interest to the property
owner, or successor in interest to any other person having a legal or equitable
interest in the property.
      3.   Eligibility Requirements: The city council finds that it may be in
the city’s best interest to enter into a development agreement when
construction of the project will be phased over a several year period, is a
large scale development, shall occupy substantial acreage, or in some other way
requires long term certainty on the part of the developer and the city. The
city council reserves the sole right to determine whether a development
agreement is appropriate and in the best interest of the city for a specific
development project.
   (C)   Proposed Development Agreement:
      1.   Each application shall be accompanied by a proposed development
agreement, which shall specify the duration of the agreement, the permitted
uses of the property, the density and intensity of use, the maximum height and
size of proposed buildings, and provisions for reservation or dedication of
land for public purposes.
      2.   A proposed development agreement may include conditions, terms,
restrictions and requirements for subsequent discretionary actions; provided,
that such conditions, terms, restrictions and requirements for subsequent
discretionary actions shall not unreasonably prevent development of the land
for the uses and to the density or intensity of the development set forth in
the agreement. A proposed development agreement may also provide that
construction shall be commenced within a specified time, and that the project
or any phases thereof be completed within a specified time.
      3.   A program and standards for periodic review of the development
agreement shall be included.
      4.   Appropriate provisions, acceptable to the city attorney, providing
security for the performance of the developer under the development agreement
shall be included.
      5.   A development agreement shall include all conditions imposed by the
city with respect to the development project, including those conditions
required as a result of any environmental review prepared under the California
environmental quality act. Agreements for special purposes may be adopted
covering only certain aspects of the project. Any such special purpose
development agreement shall be identified as such.
      6.   All development agreements shall contain an indemnity and insurance
clause, in form and substance acceptable to the city attorney, requiring the
developer to indemnify the city against claims arising out of the development
process; provided, that such a provision does not violate applicable law or
constitute a joint venture, partnership or other participation in the business
affairs of the developer by the city.
      7.   All development agreements, or any part of such development
agreements, may be subject to subsequent condemnation proceedings by the city.
      8.   A proposed agreement may include such additional conditions, terms,
restrictions or requirements as determined by the planning commission or city
council to be in the public interest.
   (D)   Parties To The Development Agreement:
      1.   Only a qualified applicant may file an application to enter into a
development agreement with the city. The planning director may require an
applicant to submit proof of this interest in the real property and of the
authority of the agent to act for the applicant. Such proof may include a
preliminary title report issued by a title company licensed to do business in
the state of California evidencing the requisite interest of the applicant in
the real property. Before processing an application, the planning director may
obtain the opinion of the city attorney as to the sufficiency of the
applicant’s interest in the real property to enter into a development agreement
as a qualified applicant.
      2.   In addition to the city and the qualified applicant, any federal,
state or local government agency or body may be included as a party to any
development agreement. Any such additional party may be made a party to a
development agreement pursuant to the provisions of the joint exercise of
powers act, Government Code section 6500 et seq., providing for joint powers
agreements, or provisions of other applicable federal, state or local law, in
order to create a legally binding agreement among such parties.
   (E)   Review Of Application:
      1.   Endorsement: The planning director shall endorse the application on
the date it is received. The application shall be reviewed and may be rejected
if it is incomplete or inaccurate. If the application is complete, it will be
accepted for filing. The planning director shall review the application and
determine any additional requirements necessary to complete the agreement form.
After receiving the required information, a staff report and recommendation
shall be prepared which will state whether the development agreement, as
proposed or in an amended form (specifying the nature of the amendments), would
be consistent with the general plan and any applicable specific plan, and with
the provisions contained herein, and whether it meets the needs and
requirements of the city.
      2.   Review and Recommendations: The planning director shall, as part of
his review of the application, circulate copies of a proposed development
agreement to those city departments and other agencies having jurisdiction over
the development project to be undertaken pursuant to the development agreement,
for review and comment by such city agencies. The proposed development
agreement shall be reviewed for legal sufficiency and a proposed ordinance
authorizing the city to enter into the development agreement, for action by the
city council upon hearing thereof, as specified herein, shall be prepared. The
staff report and recommendation of the planning director shall include any
appropriate recommendations received by other agencies.
      3.   Environment Review: The planning director shall, at the applicant’s
expense and in accord with the city procedures for implementation of the
California environmental quality act, undertake environmental review and, upon
completion of such review, transmit the application, together with a
recommendation thereon, to the planning commission.
      4.   Public Hearing: Upon receipt of the application, the results of the
environmental review, and the recommendations of the planning director, the
planning commission shall schedule a public hearing. Notice of intention to
consider the application shall be given as provided in California Government
Code sections 65090 and 65091, and as provided for in section
6-2-16 of this chapter. In addition, if the application is being processed
together with the development project, notice of such intention shall be given
as required for consideration of the development project.
      5.   Review Standard: The planning commission may recommend use of a
development agreement as a method of implementing or providing standards and
criteria for any development approval, including, but not limited to:
         (a)   A development approval pursuant to this title;
         (b)   An amendment to the general plan;
         (c)   The formation of an assessment district, benefit district,
maintenance district, special benefit district or any other mechanism for the
installation of required on site and/or off-site improvements; and/or
         (d)   Mitigation measures imposed upon a development project after
approval of an environmental impact report or mitigated negative declaration in
which such mitigated measures have been proposed as a mechanism for eliminating
or reducing environmental impacts.
      6.   Recommendation of The Planning Commission: Following the public
hearing, the planning commission shall recommend to the city council to
approve, approve with modifications, or disapprove the proposed development
agreement. The recommendation shall include the planning commission’s
determination as to whether the proposed development agreement meets the
following criteria:
         (a)   It is consistent with the objectives, policies, general land
uses, and programs specified in the general plan and any applicable specific
plan;
         (b)   It is compatible with the uses authorized in, and the
regulations prescribed for, the zone district in which the real property is or
will be located;
         (c)   It is in conformity with and will promote public convenience,
general welfare and good land use practice;
         (d)   It will not be detrimental to the health, safety and general
welfare, or materially injurious to properties and improvements in the
vicinity;
         (e)   It will not adversely affect the orderly development of property
or the preservation of property values; and
         (f)   It will promote and encourage the development of the proposed
project by providing a greater degree of requisite certainty.
   (F)   Hearing By City Council:
      1.   Adoption By Ordinance: A development agreement is a legislative act,
and shall be enacted by ordinance only after a public hearing before the city
council is held pursuant to the procedures described herein. The ordinance
shall refer to and incorporate by reference the text of the development
agreement.
      2.   Conduct Of Hearing: At the hearing, the city council shall consider
the planning commission’s recommendation, together with any additional public
testimony, and may approve, disapprove, or modify any recommendation of the
planning commission. If public testimony is presented on an issue that was not
considered by the planning commission, the city council may refer the issue
back to the planning commission for further hearings and recommendations.
      3.   Consistency With The General Plan And Any Specific Or Policy Plans:
Before the city council may approve a development agreement, it must find that
its provisions are consistent with the general plan and any applicable specific
plans or policy plans of the city. If the city council approves a development
agreement in the form recommended by the planning commission, without further
findings, it shall be deemed to have also adopted the findings of the planning
commission.
      4.   Execution Of Development Agreement: If the city council adopts an
ordinance approving a development agreement, the parties thereto shall execute
the development agreement within thirty (30) calendar days after adoption of
the ordinance; provided, however, that the development agreement shall not
become effective until the ordinance authorizing the development agreement also
becomes effective. The time for executing the agreement may be extended by the
mutual consent of the city council and the applicant.
      5.   Recordation: Within ten (10) calendar days after the city enters
into a development agreement, the city clerk shall have the agreement recorded
with the Kern County recorder as required in Government Code section 65868.5.
If the parties to the agreement or their successors in interest amend or cancel
the agreement as provided in Government Code section 65868, or if the city
determines or modifies the agreement as provided in Government Code section
65865.1 for failure of the applicant to materially comply in good faith with
the terms or conditions in the agreement, the city clerk shall have notice of
such recorded with the Kern County recorder.
   (G)   Periodic Review:
      1.   Review: The city shall periodically review a development agreement
at least once every twelve (12) months after the city enters into a development
agreement.
      2.   Good Faith Compliance: Not less than forty-five (45) nor more than
sixty (60) calendar days prior to the yearly anniversary of the date a
development agreement was entered into, the applicant shall submit evidence to
the planning director of the applicant’s good faith compliance with the
development agreement. Said notification shall be accompanied by a processing
fee in such amount as may hereinafter be established by resolution of the city
council.
      3.   Finding of Compliance: If the planning director finds good faith
compliance by the developer with the terms of a development agreement, a
certificate of compliance shall be issued, which shall be in recordable form
and may be recorded by the developer in the official records. The issuance of a
certificate of compliance by the planning director and the expiration of the
appeal period hereinafter specified without appeal, or the confirmation by the
city council of the issuance of the certificate on such appeal, shall conclude
the review for the applicable period and such determination shall be final.
      4.   Finding of Noncompliance: If, based on substantial evidence, the
planning director finds the developer has not complied in good faith with the
terms of a development agreement, the respects in which the developer has
failed to comply shall be specified in writing. The planning director shall
also specify a reasonable time for the developer to meet the terms of
compliance. If such areas of noncompliance are not corrected within the
reasonable time limits as prescribed by the planning director, the development
agreement shall be subject to cancellation pursuant to provisions herein.
      5.   Appeal of Determination: Any interested person may file an appeal of
the issuance of a certificate of compliance to the city council within ten (10)
days after the certificate’s issuance. The developer may also file an appeal to
the city council of a finding of noncompliance by the planning director within
ten (10) days after giving notice of such determination. All appeals before the
city council shall be conducted pursuant to the provisions of section
6-2-20 of this chapter, at which time evidence shall be taken and findings
thereon made.
      6.   Referral to The Planning Commission: The planning director may refer
any review to be conducted hereunder to the planning commission. Such referral
shall be made, together with a staff report of the planning director’s
preliminary findings. Upon such referral, the planning commission shall conduct
a noticed public hearing to determine the good faith compliance by the
developer with the terms of the development agreement in accordance with the
provisions contained herein, and shall direct the issuance of a certificate of
compliance upon a finding of good faith compliance, or make the determination
of noncompliance based on substantial evidence.
   (H)   Cancellation Or Modification:
      1.   Any development agreement may be canceled or modified by mutual
consent of the parties, but only in the manner provided in California
Government Code section 65868. Any proposal to cancel or modify a development
agreement shall be heard and determined in accordance with the same procedures
specified by this section for approval of a development agreement.
      2.   If, at any time during the term of a development agreement, the
planning commission or the planning director finds, on the basis of substantial
evidence, that the developer has not complied in good faith with the terms and
conditions of the development agreement, and such noncompliance has not been
corrected, the planning commission or the planning director shall, pursuant to
the notice provisions of this chapter, request that the city council conduct a
public hearing at which the developer must demonstrate good faith compliance
with the terms of the development agreement. The burden of proof of substantial
evidence of compliance by the developer is upon the developer. If such
compliance cannot be shown, the city council shall either commence proceedings
to cancel the development agreement or recommend new terms and conditions
intended to remedy the noncompliance.
      3.   The city council shall conduct a noticed hearing, upon the
recommendations of the planning commission or the planning director, at which
time the developer and any other interested persons shall be entitled to submit
such evidence and testimony as may be germane to the issue of the developer’s
good faith compliance with the terms of the development agreement. If the city
council finds, based on substantial evidence, noncompliance with the terms and
conditions of the development agreement, it may either cancel the development
agreement upon giving sixty (60) days’ notice to the developer or, in its
discretion, may allow the development agreement to be continued by imposition
of new terms and conditions intended to remedy such noncompliance. The city
council may impose such conditions to the action it takes as it considers
necessary to protect the interest of the city. The decision of the city council
shall be final.
      4.   In the event that a development agreement should be canceled or
otherwise terminated, unless otherwise agreed, all rights of the developer,
property owner or successors in interest under the development agreement shall
terminate. Any and all benefits, including money or land, received by the city
shall be retained by the city. Notwithstanding the above provision, any
termination of the development agreement shall not prevent the developer from
completing and occupying a building or other improvements authorized pursuant
to a valid building permit previously approved by the city or under
construction at the time of termination, but the city may take any action
permitted by law to prevent, stop or correct any violation of law occurring
during and after construction, and the developer or any tenant shall not occupy
any portion of the project or any building not authorized by a previously
issued building permit. As used herein, “construction” means work under a valid
building permit, and “completing” means completion for beneficial occupancy for
developer’s use, or if a portion of the project is intended for use by a lessee
or tenant, then for such portion. “Completion” means completion, except for
interior improvements such as partitions, duct and electrical run outs, floor
coverings, wall coverings, lighting, furniture, trade fixtures, finished
ceilings and other improvements typically constructed by or for tenants of
similar buildings. At such time uses shall, to the extent possible, be deemed
nonconforming uses, and shall be subject to the nonconforming use provisions of
this title.
   (I)   Miscellaneous Provisions:
      1.   All development agreements shall be subject to the regulation and
requirements of the laws of the state of California; the constitution of the
United States; any codes, statutes or executive mandates; and any court
decision, state or federal, thereunder. In the event that any such law, code,
statute, mandate or decision made or enacted after a development agreement has
been entered into prevents or precludes compliance with one or more provisions
of the development agreement, such provisions of the development agreement
shall be modified or suspended in the manner and pursuant to the procedures
specified in the development agreement, as may be necessary to comply with such
law, code, statute, mandate or decision.
      2.   A development agreement entails and consists of a separate procedure
from other land use planning procedures and shall not take the place of this
title, the general plan, a conditional use permit, subdivision approval,
building permit, or any other city development procedures. If so specified in a
development agreement, it shall constitute an approval pursuant to such
planning procedures as if separately enacted under other provisions of this
title or other city ordinances; to the extent practicable, public hearings on a
proposed development agreement shall be held concurrent with the public
hearings on all related land use approvals, and all such approvals shall be
made concurrent with the approval of the development agreement.
      3.   When approved, a development agreement and any development control
maps and all notations, references and regulations that are a part of the
development agreement shall be part of the development agreement ordinance.
Development control maps include, but are not limited to, regulations intended
to carry out any plan respecting location or type of activities; height, bulk,
siding or design of structures; location or design of open areas; and
landscaping and other comparable regulations.
      4.   This section and any subsequent development agreement with respect
to any development agreement enacted under this chapter, any provision of such
a development agreement that is in conflict with this title shall be void.
Unless otherwise provided by the development agreement, the city’s rules,
regulations and official policies governing permitted uses of land, governing
density and governing design, improvement and construction standards and
specifications applicable to development of the property subject to a
development agreement shall be those city rules, regulations and official
policies in force at the time of the approval of the development agreement by
the city council; provided, however, the developer is subject to all increases
in city imposed fees, dedication requirements and charges with respect to
subsequent applications for development and construction within the property
subject to a development agreement. (Ord. 802-14, 2-4-2014; amd. Ord. 849-22,
12-6-2022)
6-2-9: SITE PLAN REVIEW/DESIGN REVIEW:
   (A)   Purpose And Intent:
      1.   Reasonably ensure that construction of new buildings or structures
and additions, renovations and restorations to existing buildings or
structures, including residential, institutional, commercial and industrial
development (referred hereinafter in this section as “development”) does not
have an adverse aesthetic, health, safety or architecturally related negative
impact upon existing adjoining properties, or the city in general.
      2.   Ensure appropriate site planning techniques in order to promote
future development of adjacent properties by providing for such techniques as
reciprocal access, integrated parking, building and siting.
      3.   Minimize the effects of grading by discouraging mass grading to
ensure that the natural character of terrain is retained.
      4.   Encourage improved drainage from lots directly to a street storm
drain, or through public or privately maintained easements.
      5.   Encourage the use of a variety of housing styles, split level
grading techniques, varied lot sizes, site design densities, varied setbacks,
maintenance of views and arrangement, and spacing to reduce impacts on adjacent
developed properties.
      6.   Encourage the use of energy conservation techniques in all new
development.
      7.   Assist private and public developments to be more cognizant of
public concerns for the aesthetics of development.
   (B)   Authority: Authority for approval of site plan review/design review
shall be vested in the planning commission. In the case of residential
development, if findings can be made that the project complies with the design
and land use objectives and standards set forth in Chapter 4 of this Title or
an approved specific plan, the authority for preliminary approval shall be
vested in the planning director.
   (C)   Director’s Site Plan Approval: Per Section 6-2-9(B), where a site plan
is found to comply with the design and land use objectives of Chapter 4 or an
approved specific plan, authority for preliminary approval of site plan review/
design review shall be vested in the planning director. The following shall
apply:
      1.   Notice of its preliminary approval shall be sent to all property
within 300' and to other interested parties to the project.
      2.   A request for review and hearing by the Planning Commission of the
Director’s preliminary decision can be requested by those parties in writing
within 14 days of the Director’s decision. The hearing before the planning
commission must be scheduled within 30 days of receipt of the review request.
      3.   The hearing date can be extended upon approval of the project
applicant.
      4.   The Director’s decision can only occur when CEQA review has been
completed and it has been determined that the site plan is consistent with the
applicable adopted CEQA document.
   (D)   Application: An application for a site plan review/design review shall
be filed with the planning and community development department in a manner
prescribed by the planning director.
   (E)   Public Hearing: The planning commission shall consider each
application for a site plan review/design review at a noticed public hearing
unless the project meets the requirements for directors’ approval per Section
6-2-9(B) of this title.
   (F)   Findings: Following review and consideration of an application, the
planning director, planning commission, the city council on appeal, may approve
a site plan review/design review application in whole or in part, with or
without conditions, provided the planning commission prepares a written
decision which contains the findings of fact upon which the planning
commission’s decision is based. In preparing this written decision, all the
following findings of fact must be made in an affirmative manner:
      1.   The proposed use is permitted within the subject zone district
pursuant to the provisions of this section, complies with all applicable
provisions of this title, is consistent with the goals, policies and objectives
of the general plan, and is consistent with the applicable development policies
and standards of the city; and
      2.   The proposed use would not impair the integrity and character of the
zone district in which it is to be established or located; and
      3.   The site is suitable for the type and intensity of use or
development proposed; and
      4.   There are adequate provisions for water, sanitation, public
utilities and services to ensure public health and safety; and
      5.   The proposed use will not be detrimental to the public health,
safety or welfare, or materially injurious to properties and improvements in
the vicinity; and
      6.   The proposed use would not result in a significant effect on the
environment, unless overriding considerations outweigh the potential impacts.
      7.   For projects that fall under Director’s Site Plan Approval per
Section 6-2-9(C), the Director finds with certainty the project is consistent
with the land use and design criteria outlined in Chapter 4 or within an
approved specific plan.
   (G)   Objective Design Criteria: Development that seeks to utilize the
Director’s Site Plan Approval shall comply with all applicable Objective Design
Standards contained within Chapter 4 (Residential) or Chapter 5 (Commercial).
All other approvals should seek to comply with the Objective Design Standards
in the above referenced Chapters.
      1.   Exceptions to some design criteria may be allowed on condition that
the Director identifies an appropriate alternative providing an equal or better
design result.
   (H)   Design Criteria (Nonresidential):
      1.   The design and layout of a proposed development shall be consistent
with the general plan, the provisions of this title and any adopted
architectural criteria for specialized areas, such as designated historic
districts, theme areas, specific plans or planned developments.
      2.   New, renovated or remodeled developments shall demonstrate that the
following general design criteria have been integrated into the design and
layout of the proposed development:
         (a)   Establish an architectural and siting design theme that is
compatible with surrounding existing and planned development that includes the
following elements:
            (1)   A relationship to prominent design features existing in the
immediate area (i.e., trees, landform, key elements of adjacent development,
etc.);
            (2)   A relationship to existing structures and neighborhood
character. This includes prohibiting any device being or resembling security
bars, gates or other similar security devices from being placed over or on
windows or doors on the exterior of any building, or the interior of any
building if visible from a public street or public right of way; excepting
doors and windows on the ground level portion of the rear of a building facing
an alley;
            (3)   A relationship to the natural environment (i.e., washes,
native vegetation and community landscaping).
         (b)   Design the development to create pleasing transitions to and
from surrounding development by incorporating the following elements:
            (1)   The bulk of new structures relates to the prevailing or
planned scale of adjacent development;
            (2)   Setbacks from streets and adjacent properties relate to the
scale of the structure and the function of the street and encourage pedestrian
scale and uses; and
            (3)   Tall structures are made less imposing by physically stepping
them back from the street.
         (c)   Respect the identified views and view corridors of existing
developments to the greatest extent possible. Where applicable, view corridors
oriented toward such existing or proposed community amenities, such as parks,
open space or natural features, are to be enhanced.
         (d)   Create subtle variations in architectural and landscape
components that provide visual interest, but do not create abrupt changes or
cause discord in the overall character of the neighborhood.
         (e)   Provide appropriate transitions between different projects by
providing buffer areas, landscaping and other similar treatments (e.g., hedges,
walls, fences, berms or landscaped open space).
         (f)   Provide a harmonious appearance of the development with the
surrounding environment and existing developments based on the compatibility of
individual structures rather than one specific style of architecture.
         (g)   Avoid uninterrupted fences and walls, unless they are needed for
specific screening, safety or sound attenuation purpose. Where needed, fences
or walls shall be required to:
            (1)   Relate to the site being developed as well as surrounding
developments, open spaces, streets and pedestrianways;
            (2)   Respect existing view corridors to the greatest extent
possible; and
            (3)   Incorporate landscape elements or changes in materials, color
or texture in order to discourage graffiti, and prevent undue glare, heat,
reflection or aesthetic inconsistencies.
         (h)   Incorporate the following lighting concerns into development
proposals:
            (1)   Lighting fixtures are to be attractively designed to
complement the overall design theme of the project;
            (2)   Lighting shall create a festive atmosphere within commercial
areas by outlining buildings, trees or other architectural features to
encourage nighttime use of those areas by pedestrians; and
            (3)   On site lighting shall create a safe environment, adhering to
established crime prevention standards, but shall not result in nuisance levels
of light or glare on adjacent properties.
         (i)   Architectural plans for development shall be required to
incorporate the following building elevation and screening criteria:
            (1)   All exterior wall elevations of buildings and screen walls
shall have architectural treatments that enhance the appearance of the building
or wall;
            (2)   Compatible materials and consistent style shall be evident
within a development in all exterior elevations; and
            (3)   Within multi-family, commercial, office and mixed use
business park developments, trash enclosures, loading areas, mechanical
equipment and outdoor storage areas shall be screened from public streets, and
from other public views, as appropriate.
   (I)   Residential Subdivision Land Use Design Criteria: It is the intent of
the general plan and the provisions of this section to encourage a variety of
residential development types that are innovative in design and compatible with
surrounding neighborhoods while being conducive to creating a balanced housing
market in the city. The following represents components of design requirements
for all residential subdivisions, unless otherwise exempted in this section:
      1.   Variations: Housing within new residential subdivisions should,
where possible, be situated with recognizable variations in front and side yard
building setbacks.
      2.   Road Access: Residential developments should, where possible,
maximize a feeling of openness by orienting road access to open space areas and
areas of visual interest.
      3.   Roofs: The use of roof forms, including shed, gable and hip roofs,
alone or in combination, shall be used to achieve a variety of rooflines for
houses adjacent to public streets. All such roofs shall be of a concrete tile,
approved shake, or an architectural style composition shingle with dimensional
variations. All other proposed roofing materials shall be subject to review and
approval by the building official.
      4.   Congruity: To reduce architectural massing at street corners and to
create congruity where a two-story structure is next to a one-story structure,
the incorporation of a one-story element into the two-story structure should be
required when feasible.
      5.   Area: The minimum size for the livable area within a new single-
family residence in the city shall be one thousand (1,000) square feet.
      6.   Landscaping: All subdividers/developers shall be required to provide
landscaping and an irrigation system for each lot of a residential subdivision
prior to receiving a final inspection for any house constructed in that
subdivision, as follows:
         (a)   Landscaping and an irrigation system for both the front yard and
the street side yard, provided the street side yard is not obscured from sight
from an adjacent street by fencing, of each lot shall be provided. Said
landscaping shall consist of the following:
            (1)   No less than one 15-gallon size tree;
            (2)   Ten percent (10%) of said yard area shall consist of a
landscaped planter; and
            (3)   The remaining portion of said yard area not occupied by a
driveway, shall be improved with sod, including one six-station clock and two
(2) 1-inch valves.
         (b)   Any proposal for an alternative landscaping plan shall be
subject to review and approval by the planning director.
      7.   Design: Architectural styles and themes should be compatible with
the surrounding environment. However, to assure individuality among projects,
each development shall vary its architectural design to avoid monotony and
create visual interest, while remaining compatible with surrounding
development.
      8.   Floor Plans: If custom homes are not proposed, subdevelopers of
residential subdivisions shall provide a variety of floor plans and building
elevations as depicted in table 2.B of this section:
TABLE 2.B
RESIDENTIAL FLOOR PLANS AND
ELEVATIONS GUIDELINES
Number Of Single- Family Minimum Number Of Building Minimum Number Of
Dwellings                Footprints (Excludes       Elevations Per Building
                         Reverse Plans)             Footprint
Number Of Single- Family Minimum Number Of Building Minimum Number Of
Dwellings                Footprints (Excludes       Elevations Per Building
                         Reverse Plans)             Footprint
1 - 3                    1                          1
4 - 8                    2                          2
9 - 18                   3                          2
19 - 36                  3                          3
37 - 60                  4                          3
61 - 99                  4                          3
100+                     5                          3
 
      9.   Elevations: Elevations, for the purpose of meeting the requirements
of this section, shall mean the treatment of materials, trim, roofs or other
architectural features which are considerably different than the elevations of
any other house in the same subdivision as seen from the street upon which it
faces. No two (2) identical elevations shall be placed side by side within a
subdivision.
      10.   Color:
         (a)   The use of monochromatic and complementary accent and trim
colors is considered to meet the intent of this chapter.
         (b)   The use of bright or garish colors (i.e., fluorescent “hot” or
“day glow” colors) shall not be permitted.
         (c)   Using building materials in their natural state, such as brick
or stone, is strongly recommended.
         (d)   The use of colors to express individuality and identity within a
cohesive and attractive framework is encouraged. Such colors should be in
harmony with other colors used in the immediate area.
      11.   Agricultural Land Uses: Where portions of a proposed development
share a common boundary with existing agricultural properties, the following
concepts for transitions and buffers shall be incorporated into the development
proposal where feasible:
         (a)   The incorporation of existing orchards, vineyards and groves
into new development as landscaping, or as passive open space, is encouraged,
however, the following provisions shall be met:
            (1)   All such trees located in a public right of way shall be
approved for that purpose by the public works director.
            (2)   All trees within common areas shall be provided with the
assurance of a continued maintenance mechanism, homeowners’ association or a
special landscape district. (Ord. 802-14, 2-4-2014; amd. Ord. 849-22, 12-6-
2022)
6-2-10: DIRECTOR’S PERMIT:
   (A)   Purpose and Intent: The purpose of this section is to establish the
application, review, and decision procedures for a Director’s Permit (DP). The
DP enables the Planning Director to administratively review the location, site
development, and/or conduct of certain land uses. DPs are not the automatic
right of any applicant. An approved DP goes with the land and is non-
transferrable to another location.
   (B)   Applicability: DPs are required for some land uses, subject to the
permit requirements of the applicable zone district. A DP may only be issued in
accordance with zone district requirements and with this section. Projects that
seek ministerial approval shall comply with applicable Objective Design
Standards contained in Chapter 4 (Residential) or Chapter 5 (Commercial).
   (C)   Applications:
      1.   Responsibility: The Director shall have the responsibility to
approve, conditionally approve, or disapprove an DP. The Director may also
decline to take action and forward the application for action to the Planning
Commission at a public hearing.
      2.   Initiation of Application: DP applications may be initiated by the
owner, owners, or their authorized agents of property in the City. The
applicant shall submit an application in accordance with section
6-2-15, or the format specified by the Director. Fees shall be paid at the time
of application in accordance with the fee schedule. An application for a DP
shall be accompanied by the following:
         (a)   Submittal of all information and materials deemed necessary to
render the requested land use decision before the application is deemed
complete.
         (b)   Complete plans, scope of work, and description of the property
involved and the proposed use.
         (c)   Evidence, satisfactory to the Director, of the ability and
intention of the applicant to proceed with actual construction work in
accordance with said plans within six (6) months after issuance of the DP.
      3.   Project Review and Noticing: Applications for a DP shall be
processed if the Director finds the application to be complete at the time of
filing. The applicant shall be notified in writing within thirty (30) days if
the application is complete.
         (a)   If the application is found to be incomplete, the Director shall
notify the applicant in writing within thirty (30) days, indicating the
additional information required to complete the application. The application
will not be processed until the information is received by the Director.
         (b)   Each application shall be analyzed by the Director to ensure the
application is consistent with the purpose and intent of this Section.
         (c)   The Director shall issue a Notice of Intended Decision,
including the scheduled decision date, and shall be publicly noticed,
consistent with Section
6-2-16 (Public Hearing and Notification Procedures) and state law.
         (d)   Public noticing shall be conducted in compliance with Section
6-2-16 (Public Hearing and Notification Procedures).
   (D)   Hearing and Decision:
      1.   Director’s Permit Decision/Hearing: DPs are reviewed and approved
administratively by the Director and require no public hearing unless an appeal
is filed. The Director may approve, conditionally approve, or deny a DP
application after making the following findings.
      2.   Required Findings: The approval of a DP shall be accompanied by all
the following findings:
         (a)   Approval of the DP would not result in detrimental impacts to
adjacent properties or the character and function of the neighborhood.
         (b)   The design, development, and conditions associated with the DP
are consistent with the goals, policies, and intent of the General Plan, the
purpose and intent of the applicable Zone, the Objective Design Standards
contained in Chapter 4 or 5, and the character of any applicable Specific Plan.
         (c)   The land use allowed in conjunction with the DP is compatible
with the existing and future land uses of the applicable Zone, and the general
area in which the proposed use is to be located.
      3.   Conditions and Limitations: DPs may be granted upon such conditions
and limitations as the Director shall deem to be reasonable and necessary or
advisable under the circumstances so that the objectives of this Zoning
Ordinance in entirety are achieved.
   (E)   Appeals and Revocations:
      1.   If the planning director determines that any conditions of approval
of a director’s permit, have been violated, or that the permittee is operating
in a manner that is inconsistent with or that is not in accordance with the
approved statement of operations, or that such entitlement is being used in a
way that is injurious to the public health, safety, or welfare, the planning
director shall send notice to the permit holder. The notice shall provide
sufficient information to inform the permit holder of the reasons why the
planning director is recommending that the permit be revoked and shall
specifically identify the findings for revocation.
      2.   All appeals or use revocations related to a DP approval or denial
shall be consistent with the standards and process of Sections
6-2-20 (Appeals) and
6-2-21 (Revocations). (Ord. 849-22, 12-6-2022)
6-2-11: TEMPORARY USE PERMIT:
   (A)   Review, Decision: The project assistance team (PAT), as defined in
section
6-1-14, shall review and act upon all requests for temporary use permits (TUP),
or extensions thereof. The PAT shall approve, conditionally approve or deny any
such applications subject to the findings and standard conditions set forth in
this section.
   (B)   Uses Included: Those uses subject to a temporary land use permit
include the following:
      1.   Temporary real estate offices on the site of an approved subdivision
where lots, or lots and houses, are being offered for sale.
      2.   Model homes on any lot within a tentatively approved subdivision
consistent with the provisions of the city subdivision ordinance.
      3.   Construction trailers, commercial cargo/storage containers,
temporary office buildings and security personnel offices on construction sites
for which a project has been approved and a building permit or grading permit
has been issued by the city, subject to the provisions of this chapter.
      4.   On site contractor’s yard during the construction phase of an
approved project for which a building permit or grading permit has been issued.
      5.   Mobilehome or trailer occupied for security purposes during the
construction phase of a project.
      6.   Commercial cargo/storage containers (“containers”) may be placed by
a temporary use permit only in commercial or industrial zone districts, subject
to the following conditions in a manner consistent with the provisions of this
section:
         (a)   Said containers shall be adequately screened from view from any
street, highway or adjacent property in a manner consistent with the provisions
of this title.
         (b)    In commercially zoned districts or community facilities zoned
districts, one such container shall be permitted for each seven thousand five
hundred (7,500) square feet of property up to a maximum of four (4) such
containers; in the industrial zone district, one such container shall be
permitted for each twenty thousand (20,000) square feet of property up to a
maximum of four (4) such containers.
         (c)   Said containers shall not be placed in a manner that will
interfere with any required vehicular parking or maneuvering areas designated
for the property.
         (d)   In no instance may said containers be placed on a parcel of land
other than as an accessory/subordinate use to an existing and permitted primary
land use.
         (e)   Any container that has been located on a parcel of land for a
period of ten (10) years or more, upon the effective date hereof, may so remain
and shall not be required to comply with the requirements of this section
unless a change of occupancy occurs or permits are issued by the city to
expand, renovate or improve the property or any structures on the property. In
this instance, the requirements listed in subsections (B)6(a) through (B)6(d)
of this section shall apply.
   (C)   Additional Uses In Specified Districts: Those uses subject to a
temporary use permit include the following:
In the GC, I or CF zone districts, excepting the provisions of subsection (B)6
of this section, temporary buildings, commercial cargo/storage containers,
trailers, coaches and similar items may be permitted subject to an approved
temporary use permit.
   (D)   Term, Extensions; Compliance: Temporary use permits shall first be
issued for a period of time not to exceed twelve (12) months. Extensions to
such permits may be granted for additional periods of time, each of which shall
not exceed twelve (12) months. Temporary use permits shall comply with the
procedures, findings and conditions specified by this title:
      1.   A temporary use permit shall not be extended for a period of time
that exceeds five (5) years from the date the temporary use permit was first
issued.
      2.   The PAT, or the planning commission upon appeal, may approve such
permits or extensions for shorter periods of time and shall approve such
permits subject to conditions where required by this title, or where it is
determined reasonable and necessary to do so.
      3.   Prior to issuing a temporary use permit for an extension or renewal
for the last allowed period of time, the permittee shall submit to and obtain
approval by the PAT, or the planning commission, as applicable, of a plan to
replace the subject temporary use with a legally established permanent use.
      4.   A temporary use or structure that does not have a valid and current
permit is hereby declared to be a public nuisance, subject to the enforcement
provisions of this title and other applicable laws.
      5.   A change of ownership or operator of a use or structure, subject to
a temporary use permit, or a change of structure or modification of the
structure or use allowed on a parcel subject to a temporary use permit shall
not affect the time periods established by this chapter to allow such temporary
uses or structures.
      6.   When the last period of time allowed for a temporary use permit by
this chapter has lapsed, the temporary use permit, and any extension thereof,
shall be considered void and no new or additional temporary land use permits
may be issued or reinstated for the temporary use or structure that was
previously permitted.
   (E)   Cancellation Of Temporary Use Permit:
      1.   Noncompliance with the conditions set forth in the approved
temporary use permit shall be grounds for the PAT to cancel and void any such
temporary use permit.
      2.   The planning director shall give notice of such an action by the PAT
to the permittee. The permittee may appeal such a decision to the planning
commission by filing an appeal as specified in section
6-2-20 of this chapter. (Ord. 802-14, 2-4-2014; amd. Ord. 849-22, 12-6-2022)
6-2-12: SPECIAL EVENT PERMIT:
   (A)   Purpose And Intent: A special event permit is intended to allow for
the short term placement of activities on privately or publicly owned property
with appropriate regulations so that such activities will be compatible with
the surrounding areas.
   (B)   Authority:
      1.   Authority for approval of special event permits shall be vested with
the project assistance team. However, city council approval shall be required
for issuance of a special event permit or any event anticipated to accommodate
fifty (50) or more persons at any given time.
      2.   A special event permit shall not be required for events that occur
in theaters, meeting halls or other permanent public assembly facilities. A
special event may be subject to additional permits, other city department
approvals, licenses and inspections as required by this title or any other
applicable laws and regulations.
   (C)   Permitted Special Events: Table 2.C of this section identifies those
special events permitted subject to the issuance of a special event permit.
TABLE 2.C
SPECIAL EVENT CRITERIA
 
                                           Maximum Number Of Maximum Number Of
Special Event Type    Zones                Days Per Special  Occurrences Per
                                           Event             Calendar Year
Circus with tent      All commercial and   10                1
                      industrial districts
Commercial carnival,
fair, concert,
exhibit, festival or  All commercial and   10                2
similar, outdoors or  industrial districts
in temporary
enclosures
Commercial or
noncommercial holiday
sales, such as
pumpkin or Christmas
tree sales, and       All commercial zone  45                2
incidental sales of   districts
Christmas lights,
tree stands and
decorations, but
excluding gift items
Merchandise sales,
outdoors or in mobile
or temporary          All commercial zone
enclosures in         districts            30                4
conjunction with
established
businesses
Noncommercial         Parks, church
carnival, fair,       grounds, nonprofit
concert, exhibit,     organization sites,  10                2
festival or similar,  commercial and
outdoors or in        industrial districts
temporary enclosures
Noncommercial tent    All districts        10                1
meetings
 
   (D)   Criteria For Special Event Permit Issuance: The project assistance
team, or city council as set forth in subsection (B)1 of this section, shall
consider the following criteria in rendering its decision relative to a special
event permit application:
      1.   The operation of the requested special event at the location
proposed and within the time period specified will not jeopardize, endanger or
otherwise constitute a menace to the public health, safety or general welfare;
      2.   The proposed site is adequate in size and shape to accommodate the
special event without being materially detrimental to the use and enjoyment of
other properties located adjacent to and in the vicinity of the site;
      3.   The proposed site is adequately served by streets or highways having
sufficient width and improvements to accommodate the kind and quantity of
traffic that the special event will or could reasonably be expected to
generate; and
      4.   Adequate temporary parking to accommodate vehicular traffic to be
generated by the special event will be available either on site or at alternate
locations acceptable to the planning and community development department.
   (E)   Conditions Of Approval: In approving an application for a special
event permit, the planning and community development department may impose
conditions that are deemed necessary to ensure that the permit will be applied
in accordance with the criteria outlined above. These conditions may involve
any factors affecting the operation of the special event, and may include, but
are not limited to:
      1.   Provision of temporary parking facilities, including vehicular
ingress and egress;
      2.   Regulation of nuisance factors, such as, but not limited to,
prevention of glare or direct illumination of adjacent properties, noise,
vibration, smoke, dust, dirt, odors, gases, and heat;
      3.   Regulation of temporary buildings, structures and facilities,
including placement, height and size, location of equipment and open spaces,
including buffer areas and other yards;
      4.   Provision of sanitary and medical facilities;
      5.   Provision of solid waste collection and disposal;
      6.   Police and fire concerns;
      7.   Provision of security and safety measures;
      8.   Regulation of signs;
      9.   Regulation of operating hours and days, including limitation of the
duration of the special event to a shorter time period than that requested;
      10.   Submission of a performance bond or other surety device to assure
that any temporary facilities or structures used for the proposed special event
will be removed from the site within a reasonable time following the event and
that the property will be restored to its prior existing condition;
      11.   Submission of a site plan indicating any information required by
this section;
      12.   A requirement that the approval of the requested special event
permit is contingent upon compliance with this title and with other applicable
provisions of other ordinances;
      13.   Other conditions that will ensure the operation of the proposed
special event in an orderly and efficient manner, and in accordance with the
intent and purpose of this section; and
      14.   Liability insurance of the type and in the amount required by the
city risk management authority. (Ord. 802-14, 2-4-2014; amd. Ord. 849-22, 12-6-
2022)
6-2-13: TENANT IMPROVEMENTS:
   (A)   Purpose And Intent: The purpose of this section is to provide
guidelines for the processing and review of tenant improvements to structures.
Any proposed tenant improvement, which in its initial review indicates an
increase in land use intensity, such as an increase in parking demand, may be
subject to additional review as determined by the planning director and
building official.
   (B)   Authority: The planning director and building official may approve
tenant improvements that comply with the requirements, provisions and
intentions of this title.
   (C)   Findings: The planning director and building official may approve a
tenant improvement if all of the following findings can be made:
      1.   The improvement is permitted within the applicable district,
pursuant to the provisions of this title, and complies with all of the
applicable provisions of this title;
      2.   The site for the proposed use is adequate in size, shape,
topography, accessibility and other physical characteristics to accommodate the
proposed use and development in a manner compatible with existing and proposed
surrounding land uses; and
      3.   The improvement will not be detrimental to the public health, safety
or welfare, or adversely affect properties and improvements in the vicinity.
(Ord. 802-14, 2-4-2014; amd. Ord. 849-22, 12-6-2022)
6-2-14: NONCONFORMING USE AND STRUCTURES:
   (A)   Purpose And Intent: This section is intended to limit the number and
extent of nonconforming uses by regulating their enlargement, reestablishment
after abandonment, and the alteration or restoration after destruction of the
structures they occupy. In addition, this section is intended to limit the
number and extent of nonconforming structures by prohibiting the relocation,
alteration or additions in a manner that would increase the discrepancy between
existing conditions and the standards prescribed in this title.
   (B)   Applicability: This section shall apply to any site, structure or use
that was legally established, but does not conform to the provisions of this
title as originally adopted or as may be amended from time to time.
“Nonconforming” refers to a legally established site that does not meet the
minimum dimensional requirements of the applicable zone, or a legally
established use that is not permitted by the applicable zone, a legally
established structure, by its size, architecture or location does not meet the
standards of the applicable zone, or any combination thereof.
   (C)   Discontinuation Of Nonconforming Use: Whenever a nonconforming use has
been discontinued for a continuous period of one hundred eighty (180) days or
more, the nonconforming use shall not be reestablished, and the use of the
structure or site thereafter shall be in conformity with the regulations for
the zone district in which it is located. Discontinuation shall include
termination of a use regardless of intent to resume the use.
   (D)   Conforming Use within Nonconforming Structure: Should a structure be
non-conforming, and a conforming use is proposed, the conforming use shall be
allowed in the nonconforming structure, providing health and safety issues do
not exist, as determined by the planning director.
   (E)   Exempt Nonconforming Use: This section shall not apply to the use of a
nonconforming single-family dwelling located in a zone district that permits
single-family dwellings or the adaptive reuse of buildings within the Downtown
Taft Specific Plan area.
   (F)   Continuation And Maintenance:
      1.   Any nonconforming structure or use may be continued and maintained
for the periods of time hereinafter set forth; provided the only structural
alterations permitted are those required to resolve building code non-
compliances, except as hereinafter provided:
         (a)   Agricultural crops shall not be subject to the provisions of
this section;
         (b)   Agricultural uses that involve permanent structures shall be
subject to the provisions of this section; however, such uses shall be
permitted to make any changes or improvements that are required by any state
law or city ordinances, including structural alterations that are necessary as
a part thereof.
      2.   A structure or use may be maintained for the following periods of
time after the effective date of the regulation or ordinance that established
it as nonconforming:
         (a)   Commercial and office uses, such as those primarily permitted in
commercial districts, thirty (30) years;
         (b)   Industrial uses, such as those primarily permitted within
industrial districts, forty (40) years;
      3.   Any structure for which a building permit has been legally issued,
and on which substantial construction has been performed in reliance thereon on
the site before an amendment to the regulation or ordinance making the use or
structure nonconforming, may be continued in accordance with the plans and
specifications upon which the permit was issued, subject to the limitations of
this section.
      4.   A property containing a legally established structure that does not
conform with applicable development standards for front yards, side yards, rear
yards, height, floor area of structures, or open space for the district in
which the property is located, shall be deemed to be a nonconforming structure,
and may be used and maintained as provided herein.
      5.   A legally established sign as provided in chapter 15 of this title.
      6.   Routine maintenance and repairs may be performed on a nonconforming
use, structure or sign.
   (G)   Alterations And Enlargements of Nonconforming Uses and Structures:
      1.   A nonconforming use shall not be moved, altered or enlarged unless
required by law, or unless the moving, alteration or enlargement will result in
the elimination of the nonconformity.
      2.   A nonconforming use shall not be enlarged or extended in such a way
as to occupy any part of the structure or site or another structure or site
that it did not occupy at the time it became a nonconforming use, or in such a
way as to displace any conforming use occupying a structure or site.
      3.   A nonconforming structure shall not be altered or reconstructed to
increase the discrepancy between existing conditions and the standards for
front yard, side yard, rear yard, height of structures, distances between
structures, or usable open space prescribed in the regulations for the zone
district in which the structure is located except within the Downtown Taft
Specific zone.
      4.   In the Downtown Taft Specific Zone area, a nonconforming structure
may be altered or reconstructed to increase the discrepancy between existing
conditions and the standards as listed in (3) above up to 10% of the existing
standard.
      5.   Existing Single Family Residential developments within a commercial,
mixed use or multi-family residential zone may be altered or enlarged so long
as the additional square footage is exclusively for the establishment of an ADU
or JADU, as defined in this title.
   (H)   Restoration Of Damaged Structure:
      1.   Whenever a nonconforming structure is destroyed to the extent of
fifty percent (50%) or less by fire, calamity or act of God, the structure may
be restored and the nonconforming use may be resumed; provided, that
restoration is started within three hundred and sixty-five (365) calendar days
and diligently pursued to completion. When the destruction exceeds fifty
percent (50%), or the structure is voluntarily razed or is required by law to
be razed, the structure shall not be restored except in full conformity with
the regulations for the zone district in which it is located, and any prior
nonconforming uses shall not be resumed.
      2.   The extent of damage shall be based upon the ratio of the estimated
cost of restoring the structure to its condition prior to such damage to the
estimated cost of duplicating the entire structure as it existed prior thereto.
Estimates for this purpose shall be reviewed and approved by the building
official and shall be based on the minimum cost of construction in compliance
with the most currently adopted city building code.
      3.   Legal nonconforming single-family residential structures destroyed
by fire, calamity or act of God may be restored and the single-family use may
be resumed in all zone districts that permit residential uses. The restoration
of single-family residential structures in the High Density Residential (R-3),
Mixed Use (MU), or other similar multi-family residential zone district shall
include the development of an accessory dwelling unit or other second unit on
the same property. (Ord. 802-14, 2-4-2014; amd. Ord. 849-22, 12-6-2022)
6-2-15: APPLICATION FILING:
   (A)   Purpose And Intent: These provisions are intended to prescribe the
procedure for filing applications for permits, appeals, amendments and
approvals when required or permitted by this title.
   (B)   Application Forms: Requests for permits, appeals, amendments,
approvals and other actions required or permitted by this title shall require
that a completed application on a form provided by and submitted to the
planning and community development department, in addition to any other
materials, reports, dimensions, plans or other information required to take an
action on the application.
   (C)   Determination Of Completeness:
      1.   No application shall be processed pursuant to this title prior to
the determination by the planning and community development department staff
that the application is complete. A completed application shall consist of:
         (a)   The application form with all applicable information included
on, or attached to the form;
         (b)   Additional information, reports, dimensions, drawings and other
material specified on the application form;
         (c)   A description of how the proposed project to requested action is
consistent with the goals, objectives, policies, programs and other provisions
of the adopted general plan;
         (d)   Any other information or forms required for implementation of
the California environmental quality act pursuant to state guidelines in
accordance with subsection (I) of this section;
         (e)   Will serve letters from local water, sewer and other utility
purveyors confirming that infrastructure is in place and eligible for service.
         (f)   Payment in full of the required fees for processing the
application.
      2.   The planning director shall determine in writing the completeness of
the application, and shall transmit this determination to the applicant within
the time limits and in such form and content and with respect to such types of
project applications as established by applicable state law and city
regulation.
      3.   The statutory time periods for processing any applications pursuant
to this title, which are subject by state law to such time limits, shall
commence upon the date the application is received by the city, as provided in
the state law relative to review and approval of development projects.
   (D)   Additional Information: Notwithstanding procedures established in this
chapter for determination of completeness, the planning director may request
the applicant to submit additional information in the course of processing the
application if such information could not have been anticipated as part of the
original application. Such a request to clarify, amplify, correct or otherwise
supplement submitted information shall not invalidate the original
determination that the application was complete at the time the determination
was originally made. The planning director may request any additional
information needed to prepare adequate environmental documentation pursuant to
state guidelines implementing the California environmental quality act.
   (E)   Fees: The city council may by resolution or ordinance establish, and
from time to time amend, a schedule of fees for permits, appeals, amendments
and approvals required or permitted by this title to reimburse the city for
costs incurred as the result of this administration of the provisions of this
title.
   (F)   Who May File An Application: Unless otherwise specified in this title,
applications for permits and approvals pursuant to this chapter may be made
only by the affected property owner or the property owner’s authorized agent or
representative.
   (G)   Applicant Notification: At the time of filing an application, the
planning director shall inform the applicant that he or she may make a written
request to receive notice from the city of any proposal to adopt or amend the
general plan, a specific plan, zoning ordinance, or an ordinance affecting
building permits that may affect the application being filed. The applicant
shall specify, in writing, the proposed action for which notice is requested.
Prior to taking any of those actions, the planning director shall give notice
to any applicant who has requested notice of the type of action proposed and
whose development proposal is pending before the city if the planning director
determines that the proposal is reasonably related to the applicant’s pending
development request.
   (H)   Consideration Of Concurrent Applications: An application which is
dependent on approval of a change of zone or other enabling applications shall
be processed concurrently with such enabling applications. The approval
authority for such dependent application shall be vested with the body
authorized to approve the enabling applications.
   (I)   Environmental Review: No permit or approval shall be granted pursuant
to this title prior to the completion of applicable environmental review as
required by state guidelines implementing the California environmental quality
act (CEQA).
   (J)   Time Limit For Approving Applications:
      1.   When required by state law, action shall be taken on projects
requiring the preparation and certification of an environmental impact report,
within one year of the date the application was accepted as completed.
      2.   When required by state law, final action shall be taken on projects
that are exempt from the provisions of California environmental quality act or
that require the adoption of a negative declaration within one hundred five
(105) days of the date that the application was accepted as complete.
      3.   Extension of the time limit for action on an application, as
specified in the above subsections, may be granted if mutually agreed upon by
the applicant and planning director. (Ord. 802-14, 2-4-2014; amd. Ord. 849-22,
12-6-2022)
6-2-16: PUBLIC HEARING AND NOTIFICATION PROCEDURES:
   (A)   Purpose: This section defines procedures for conducting public
hearings for applications pursuant to this title unless otherwise specified in
this title. The purpose of this section is to ensure public awareness and full
open public discussion and debate regarding proposed actions pursuant to this
title.
   (B)   Public Hearing Date: Where required by state law, and unless otherwise
specified in this title, a public hearing on any application shall be scheduled
before the planning commission and/or city council a minimum of forty-five (45)
calendar days following notice of a complete application or by an alternative
mutual agreement.
   (C)   Notice Of Hearings:
      1.   Notice of public hearings shall be given as required by law by all
of the following methods:
         (a)   Publication in a newspaper of general circulation within the
city at least ten (10) calendar days prior to the public hearing;
         (b)   Mailing at least ten (10) calendar days prior to the public
hearing, to all owners of property within a distance of three hundred feet
(300') from the exterior boundaries of the property involved in the
application. For this purpose, the last known name and address of each property
owner as contained in the records of the latest equalized Kern County assessor
rolls shall be used;
         (c)   Mailing at least ten (10) calendar days prior to the public
hearing, or delivering at least ten (10) calendar days prior to the public
hearing, to each local agency expected to provide essential services or
facilities to the project whose ability to provide those facilities and
services may be significantly affected;
         (d)   Mailing at least ten (10) calendar days prior to the public
hearing, or delivering at least ten (10) calendar days prior to the public
hearing, to the owner of the subject real property or to the owner’s duly
authorized agent, and to the project applicant and the applicant’s authorized
representative, if any;
         (e)   Mailing at least ten (10) calendar days prior to the public
hearing, to any person who has filed a written request with the planning
director and has provided the planning director with a self-addressed stamped
envelope for that purpose;
         (f)   Any other means prescribed by law, or desired by the city.
      2.   Exceptions:
         (a)   If the number of owners to whom notice is to be mailed or
delivered pursuant to this subsection (C), is greater than one thousand
(1,000), in lieu of mailed or delivered, notice may be provided by placing a
display advertisement of at least one-eighth (1/8) page in at least one
newspaper of general circulation in the city at least ten (10) days prior to
the hearing.
         (b)   For a proposed conversion of residential real property to a
condominium project, community apartment project or stock cooperative project,
such notice shall also be given, as required by law, by mail to each tenant of
the subject property and, in addition to notice of the time and place of the
public hearing, shall include notification of the tenant’s right to appear and
the right to be heard.
      3.   The planning director may require that additional notice of the
hearing be given in any other manner deemed necessary or desirable to ensure
that all notice requirements provided by law for the proposal are complied
with.
      4.   All notices of public hearings shall include a description of the
project and the identity of the hearing body or officers, shall describe the
property, date, time and place of the scheduled hearing, a statement that
application and associated documents and environmental review are available for
public inspection at a specified location, and the manner in which additional
information and/or testimony may be received.
   (D)   Conduct Of Public Hearings:
      1.   Public hearings held pursuant to the provisions of this title shall
be held according to such public hearing rules as the planning commission and
city council may, from time to time, adopt by resolution.
      2.   The chairperson of the planning commission and mayor may require
that witnesses be sworn, prior to providing testimony at the planning
commission or city council public hearing, respectively. (Ord. 802-14, 2-4-
2014; amd. Ord. 849-22, 12-6-2022)
6-2-17: APPROVAL TO EXTEND WITH LAND:
Unless otherwise specified, all permits and approvals granted pursuant to this
title shall run with the land, and shall continue to be valid upon change of
ownership of the site or structure to which it applies. (Ord. 802-14, 2-4-2014;
amd. Ord. 849-22, 12-6-2022)
6-2-18: EFFECTIVE DATE OF DECISION:
A decision that is subject to appeal shall not become effective for ten (10)
calendar days following the action by the appropriate decision making body in
order to allow time for the filing of an appeal of the decision. (Ord. 802-14,
2-4-2014; amd. Ord. 849-22, 12-6-2022)
6-2-19: LAPSE OF APPROVALS AND EXTENSIONS OF TIME:
   (A)   Projects Not Subject To Subdivision Map Act And/Or Not Involving City
Building Permits: Approvals for projects not subject to the subdivision map act
and/or not involving city building permits shall lapse and become void twelve
(12) months from the approval date, unless otherwise specified in this title,
unless a different expiration date is specifically established as a condition
of approval to the extent permitted by law, unless a valid building permit is
in effect in reliance upon the approved entitlement and substantial
construction has commenced and is diligently pursued toward completion, or
unless the property has been occupied and the approved use fully commenced.
   (B)   Extension Of Time:
      1.   Authority: An extension of time may be granted for projects approved
under this title, where substantial construction has not yet commenced or has
not yet been completed or where the property has not yet been occupied and the
approved use not fully commenced. Approvals for extension of time may only be
granted by the original approving authority.
      2.   Submittal of Extension Requests:
         (a)   Extension requests for projects not subject to the subdivision
map act and/or not involving city building permits shall only be considered if
filed with the planning and community development department no less than
thirty (30) calendar days and no more than ninety (90) calendar days prior to
the expiration date of the permit or approval.
         (b)   A subdivider may request an extension for projects subject to
the subdivision map act by written application to the planning director in
accordance with the provisions of the subdivision map act, title X of this
code, and this title.
      3.   Time Limits on Extensions: Extensions may not exceed a total of four
(4) years from the original date of expiration, unless otherwise provided by
law, and may be for shorter periods of time. The planning director and
approving authority may choose to grant multiple extensions in shorter
increments, but the total of such extensions shall not exceed the total four
(4) year limit, except that extensions for TMs may be provided the maximum
amount of time in accordance with the Subdivision Map Act (six years).
      4.   Circumstances Under Which Extensions May Be Granted: An extension of
the approval of a project may be granted only if it is found that granting of
an extension will not be detrimental to the public health, safety or welfare,
or materially injurious to properties or improvements in the vicinity. (Ord.
802-14, 2-4-2014; amd. Ord. 849-22, 12-6-2022)
6-2-20: APPEALS:
   (A)   Appeal Of Action:
      1.   Any person may appeal a decision of the planning director to the
planning commission where the planning director’s decision would otherwise be
final.
      2.   Any person established as an interested party may appeal a decision
of the planning commission to the city council where the planning commission’s
decision would otherwise be final.
   (B)   Filing Of Appeals: Appeal application forms shall be made available at
the office of the planning and community development department to all persons
wishing to appeal an action included in this title. Appeal applications shall
be filed with the planning and community development department within ten (10)
calendar days following the date of action. If the last day to file falls on a
holiday or on a Saturday or Sunday, the following business day shall be deemed
the last day to act. Appeals requiring city council consideration will be
forwarded to the city clerk by the planning director.
   (C)   Appeal Hearings: Public notice of an appeal hearing shall be given in
the same manner as the original notice was given. In the case of an appeal of a
planning commission decision, notice shall be given pursuant to section 6-2-16
of this chapter.
   (D)   Effective Date Of Appealed Actions: Except as otherwise provided for
in this title, an action that has been appealed shall not become effective
until a final determination is made by the appellate body. (Ord. 802-14, 2-4-
2014; amd. Ord. 849-22, 12-6-2022)
6-2-21: REVOCATION OF PERMITS:
   (A)   Purpose And Intent: In order to protect the public health, safety and
welfare, and in order to enforce the provisions of this title, it may, from
time to time, become necessary to revoke a previously authorized approval or
approved permit. The purpose of this section is to provide a process for
revoking approvals or permits to protect the public health, safety and welfare,
as well as the rights to due process of permit holders within the city.
   (B)   Authority:
      1.   Authority to revoke permits or approvals shall be vested with the
planning commission where the planning commission was the final approving
authority in granting the permit or approval, or with the city council where
the city council was the final approving authority in granting the permit or
approval. A public hearing pursuant to section
6-2-16 of this chapter shall be required for revocation of permits or
approvals.
      2.   Notwithstanding the above, the building official shall have the
authority to revoke building permits pursuant to the provisions of the
California building code.
   (C)   Required Findings: A permit or approval subject to revocation pursuant
to the provisions of this section may be revoked by the planning commission or
the city council if any one of the following findings is made:
      1.   The permit or approval was obtained by misrepresentation or fraud;
or
      2.   The use for which the permit or approval was granted has ceased, and
was suspended for six (6) or more consecutive calendar months; or
      3.   The conditions of the permit or approval have not been met, or the
permit or approval granted is being or has been exercised contrary to the terms
of the permit or approval, or in violation of any statue, ordinance, law or
regulation; or
      4.   The public health, safety and welfare can be served only by
revocation.
   (D)   Notification And Time Limits for Correction:
      1.   The planning director shall notify the holder of the permit or
approval in writing of a decision to initiate a pending revocation, shall state
specifically the reasons for the proposed revocation, and shall provide a
period of thirty (30) calendar days for the holder to correct or show
substantial progress toward correcting the defects that serves as the basis for
the proposed revocation. In the event said defects are not corrected within
thirty (30) calendar days from the date the notice is mailed, or substantial
progress is not made during said thirty (30) day period, a public hearing shall
be held before the planning commission, or city council where applicable, which
shall be set pursuant to the provisions of section
6-2-16 of this chapter.
      2.   In taking action to revoke a permit, the planning commission or city
council shall have the discretion to set the effective date of the revocation
in order to allow the permit holder adequate and appropriate time in which to
make necessary corrections. (Ord. 802-14, 2-4-2014; amd. Ord. 849-22, 12-6-
2022)
CHAPTER 3
SPECIAL ZONE DISTRICTS
SECTION:
6-3-1: Downtown Taft Specific Plan (DTSP) Zone District
6-3-2: Community Facilities (CF) Zone District
6-3-3: Airport Approach Height (H) Overlay Zone District
6-3-4: Drilling Island (DI) Zone District
6-3-5: Petroleum Extraction (PE) Overlay Zone District
6-3-1: DOWNTOWN TAFT SPECIFIC PLAN (DTSP) ZONE DISTRICT:
   (A)   Purpose And Intent:
      1.   The purpose and intent of the Downtown Taft Specific Plan (DTSP)
Zone District is to encourage mixed use development and create a thriving,
healthy, balanced community and an economically diverse downtown economy. This
is achieved by outlining goals, objectives, policies, and standards regarding
the character of land uses and development within Downtown Taft.
      2.   The provisions of this section establish procedures that provide for
residential, commercial and/or industrial, mixed-use developments. These
provisions permit the clustering of units, the mixing of land use and building
types, and the formulation of specific development standards and design
criteria that respond to the particular features or conditions affecting a
site. In effect, the DTSP zone district sets the standards of development
independent of other zone districts specified in this title.
   (B)   Use Regulations:
      1.   Chapter 3 - Land Uses, of the Downtown Taft Specific Plan (adopted
by Ordinance) identifies those land uses or activities that may be permitted,
or conditionally permitted in the DTSP zone districts, subject to the
provisions of this title and the general plan.
      2.   All development within this zone district must comply with the
approved Downtown Taft Specific Plan.
      3.   Should the Downtown Taft Specific Plan be silent on a proposed land
use or development standard, then the provisions of this title shall apply, at
the discretion of the planning director. (Ord. 849-22, 12-6-2022)
6-3-2: COMMUNITY FACILITIES (CF) ZONE DISTRICT:
   (A)   Purpose And Intent:
      1.   The general plan outlines the goals, objectives and policies
establishing the location and character of public, quasi-public and
institutional land uses and activities within the city.
      2.   It is the purpose of this section to provide regulations that
implement those goals, objectives and policies of the general plan and to
assure the availability and adequacy of lands suitable for future public,
quasi-public and institutional facilities, uses and activities.
   (B)   Use Regulations: Table 3.A of this section identifies those land uses
or activities that may be permitted, or conditionally permitted in the CF zone
district, subject to the provisions of this title and the general plan. Table
3.A of this section also depicts the permit procedure and the type of approval
required by which each listed land use or activity may be permitted in said
community facilities zone district. (Ord. 768-08, 8-19-2008)
TABLE 3.A
USES PERMITTED WITHIN COMMUNITY FACILITIES DISTRICT
To view Table 3.A Uses Permitted Within Community Facilities District, click
HERE
Legend:
P = Permitted subject to consistency assessment
C = Permitted subject to approval of a conditional use permit
X = Prohibited
Use Condition Of Use
Use                                                            Condition Of Use
Accessory uses:
Accessory uses and structures located on the same site as a    P
permitted use
Other accessory uses and structures located on the same site   C
as a use permitted subject to a conditional use permit
Community facilities uses:
Agricultural uses, such as grazing, field crops, truck
gardening, berry and bush crops, flower gardening, wholesale   P
nurseries when used to buffer airport related uses
Air museum                                                     P
Aircraft associated activities (when associated with an
airport operation) including aerial crop dusting and spraying
enterprises; aerial firefighting enterprises; aerial photo and
surveying; air carrier, commuter and scheduled air taxi
operations; air shows, fly-in events, aircraft wash and wax
operations; car rental; flying school or flying club;          P
administrative and classroom facilities; professional offices;
hangars and tiedown spaces for aircraft storage or parking;
sale of aviation petroleum products; sale, rental or service
of aircraft parts, avionics, instruments or other equipment;
taxicabs, buses, limousines and other ground transportation
facilities
Aircraft related manufacture, repair, maintenance, rebuilding, P
alteration or exchange of aircraft parts
Airport, if not located within the boundaries of the Taft-Kern
County Airport, including airfields, helicopter field or port,
landing and takeoff runways and taxiways, buildings,
improvements and activities primarily related to the operation C
of an airport facility, such as hangars, air passenger
terminal buildings, operation tower, fuel storage and
refueling facilities, maintenance, security and public safety
facilities
Ambulance service (includes air ambulance)                     P
Animal shelters                                                C
Auditoriums                                                    C
Cellular and microwave communication facilities                C
Cemeteries                                                     C
Churches, synagogues, mosques and temples                      C
Cultural activity structure or events                          C
Day nursery, nursery schools and childcare facilities per      C
state law
Education institutions (including public or private vocational P
schools)
Fire station, fire training facility and police station        P
Fireworks stand, subject to section                            P
6-12-17 of this title
Hospitals                                                      C
Medical marijuana dispensaries                                 X
Packaging and packing of products for air transport            P
Post offices                                                   P
Preparation of chemical fire retardants as required for aerial C
firefighting
Public libraries and museums                                   P
Public parks and recreation facilities (public or private)     P
Public utilities and public service substations, drainage
sumps, reservoirs, pumping plants and similar installations,   P
not including public utility offices
Public utility services offices                                P
RTC, CCF, prisons                                              C
Recreation uses, such as parks, golf courses, golf driving
range and similar uses involving the open use of land without  C
structures or improvements when used to buffer airport related
uses
Recreational facilities, such as zoos, country clubs, tennis
and swim clubs, golf courses and private ranges, equestrian
centers, with incidental limited commercial uses commonly      C
associated and/or directly related to the primary recreational
use
Recycling facility                                             C
Residential care facility                                      C
Restaurants (refer to section
6-12-5 of this title):
Bona fide restaurant or food service establishment not serving P
alcoholic beverages
Nonbona fide restaurant or food service establishment serving
alcoholic beverages, including upgrading an existing ABC       C
license (e.g., beer and wine license to a hard liquor license)
All public buildings and grounds not otherwise mentioned       P
herein
Temporary uses:
Temporary uses (subject to the provisions of section           P
6-2-10 of this title, and issuance of a temporary use permit)
Other uses similar to and no more objectionable than the uses identified above
may be permitted subject to approval by the planning commission
 
(Ord. 768-08, 8-19-2008; amd. Ord. 782-10, 4-6-2010)
   (C)   Development Standards:
      1.   General Requirements: The minimum property development standards for
all land, buildings and structures constructed or placed within the community
facilities (CF) zone district shall be equivalent to the requirements of the
zone districts of adjacent properties. When there is a conflict between
adjacent zone districts and the CF zone district, the project assistance team
shall make the final determination as to the applicable development standards
to be applied. The decision of the project assistance team may be appealed to
the planning commission in accordance with the provisions of section
6-2-19 of this title.
      2.   Special Requirements:
         (a)   Where off street parking areas are situated such that they are
in a visual corridor, as may be defined in a precise plan adopted by the city
council, screening, such as a wall or earthen berm two feet (2') in height,
shall be erected between the street right of way and parking areas.
         (b)   Except as otherwise permitted, a street side building setback
area shall be used only for landscaping, pedestrian walkways, driveways or off
street parking.
         (c)   Except as otherwise permitted, required rear and interior side
building setback areas shall be used only for landscaping, pedestrian walkways,
driveways, off street parking or loading, storage of materials (when provided
in accordance with the provisions of this title), recreational activities or
facilities, and similar accessory activities. (Ord. 768-08, 8-19-2008)
6-3-3: AIRPORT APPROACH HEIGHT (H) OVERLAY ZONE DISTRICT:
   (A)   Purpose And Intent: The airport safety regulations are established to
provide greater safety to both aviators and the general public by setting
requirements for land use compatibility reviews within designated areas as set
forth in part 1, chapter 4, section 4.14 of the Taft-Kern County Airport land
use compatibility plan of the county of Kern.
   (B)   Permitted Uses: Permitted uses in an H zone district are those uses
permitted by the base district within which the H zone district is combined.
   (C)   Uses Permitted With Conditional Use Permit: Uses permitted with a
conditional use permit in an H zone district are those conditional uses
permitted by the base district within which the H zone district is combined.
   (D)   Prohibited Uses: Prohibited uses in an H zone district are those uses
prohibited by the base district within which the H zone district is combined.
   (E)   Minimum Lot Size: Minimum lot size requirements in an H zone district
shall be in compliance with the requirements of the base district within which
the H zone district is combined.
   (F)   Minimum Lot Area Per Dwelling Unit: Requirements for minimum lot area
per dwelling unit in an H zone district shall be in compliance with the
requirements of the base district within which the H zone district is combined.
   (G)   Yard And Setbacks: Yard and setback requirements in an H zone district
shall be in compliance with the requirements of the base district within which
the H zone district is combined.
   (H)   Height Limits: The height of structures, trees and/or other objects in
the H zone district shall in no case be less restrictive than the requirement
of part 77 of the federal aviation regulations of the federal aviation
administration (FAA), department of transportation, or of any corresponding
rules or regulations of the FAA, as amended. When there is conflict between the
regulations of the combined, the regulations of the FAA shall prevail. When
there is no such conflict, the permitted height shall be in accordance with the
requirements of the base district within which the H zone district is combined.
   (I)   Minimum Distance Between Structures: The minimum distance between
structures in an H zone district shall be in compliance with the requirements
of the base district within which the H zone district is combined.
   (J)   Parking: Parking requirements in an H zone district shall be in
compliance with the requirements of chapter 14 of this title.
   (K)   Signs: Sign requirements in an H zone district shall be in compliance
with the requirements of chapter 15 of this title.
   (L)   Landscaping: Landscaping requirements in an H zone district shall be
in compliance with the requirements of the base district within which the H
zone district is combined.
   (M)   Location Requirements:
      1.   The airport safety regulations apply to the Taft Airport and any
future airports that may be established in the city.
      2.   The area subject to airport safety regulations is the "airport
influence area" as determined by the Kern County Airport land use compatibility
plan.
         (a)   An airport influence area, as determined by the Kern County
Airport land use compatibility plan, ALUCP (refer to table 2A of ALUCP
compatibility criteria and figure 4-66 map "Taft-Kern Airport buffer zones").
         (b)   In all other cases, the applicable area may include all that
area as defined in the federal aviation regulations, part 77 (FAR part 77),
which depicts imaginary surfaces for "objects affecting navigable airspace", as
applicable to the specific FAA approved airport layout and approach plan, as
well as the state of California's "Airport Land Use Planning Handbook". In the
event FAR requirements or the state's handbook change, the most current
provisions shall apply.
   (N)   Findings: The planning director shall determine that all of the
following are true prior to approving any land use application or issuing any
development permit within the airport safety review areas, as defined by the
Kern County Airport land use compatibility plan. If the findings cannot be
made, a conditional use permit shall be required. Such conditional use permit
shall find that the proposed use will not adversely affect the safety of
persons residing, working or traveling within the review areas, or affect the
viability of the airport, prior to approval of the project.
      1.   The proposed use is consistent with the general plan, zoning
ordinance and the Kern County Airport land use compatibility plan.
      2.   The proposed use does not involve the storage or dispensing of
volatile or otherwise hazardous substances that would endanger aircraft
operations and public safety.
      3.   The proposed use does not attract a large concentration of birds,
produce smoke, generate electrical interference, reflect glare or light, or
emit radio transmissions that may endanger aircraft operations.
      4.   The proposed use promotes the public interest to provide for the
development of the public use airport and the area around the airport in such a
manner, among other things, to comply with the noise standards adopted pursuant
to the general plan and the provisions of section
6-11-18 of this title, and to prevent the creation of new noise and safety
hazards.
      5.   The proposed use enhances the protection of public health, safety
and welfare, by ensuring the orderly expansion of the airport and the adoption
of land use measures or development standards that minimize the public's
exposure to excessive noise and safety hazards within the area around the
airport to the extent that such areas are not already devoted to incompatible
uses.
      6.   The proposed use will not adversely affect safe air navigation,
airport operations or interfere with airport communications.
      7.   The proposed use complies with the development standards specified
by this section.
   (O)   Development Standards: When a land use is proposed within an area
governed by this section, the following standards and criteria shall apply:
      1.   Proposed structures and the normal mature height of any vegetation
shall not exceed the height limitations provided by the requirements of federal
aviation regulations (FAR), part 77, or with the requirements of this section.
Existing topographic elevations, as compared to the elevation of the centerline
of the runway (primary surface), shall be considered in determining the
permitted height of an affected structure.
      2.   Proposed uses shall be consistent with the general plan, this title
and the Kern County Airport land use compatibility plan.
      3.   The proposed use or the structure shall not reflect glare, emit
electronic interference or produce smoke that would endanger aircraft
operations.
      4.   All heliports shall be constructed pursuant to FAA advisory circular
150/5390-1B.
      5.   The provisions of the California "Airport Land Use Planning
Handbook" shall be met. (Ord. 768-08, 8-19-2008)
6-3-4: DRILLING ISLAND (DI) ZONE DISTRICT:
   (A)   Purpose And Intent: The purpose of the drilling island (DI) district
is to designate single lots and relatively small areas within the boundaries of
final map subdivisions and mobilehome parks that contain productive or
potentially productive petroleum resources to promote the development of such
resources in a manner compatible with surrounding development. Uses in the DI
zone district are limited to petroleum and gas exploration, production and
transportation, and to compatible open space and recreational uses.
   (B)   Permitted Uses: The following uses and all others determined to be
similar to these uses, pursuant to section
6-1-9, "Determination Of Similar Use", of this title, are permitted in the DI
zone district:
Oil or gas exploration pursuant to section
6-10-5, "Development Standards And Conditions", of this title.
   (C)   Uses Permitted With Conditional Use Permit: The following uses are
permitted in the DI zone district upon obtaining an approved conditional use
permit:
      1.   Parks:
         (a)   Any such park shall be "passive" with improvements limited to
landscaping, picnic tables and/or barbecue facilities.
         (b)   A sign shall be in accordance with the provisions of section
6-15-3, "Sign Standards", of this title, stating that the site is in a DI zone
district and is subject to future drilling and production activities.
         (c)   Mineral rights owners of the subject property shall be given
notification of an application for a conditional use permit in accordance with
the provisions of section
6-2-15, "Public Hearing And Notification Procedures", of this title.
      2.   Parking lots:
         (a)   A sign, in accordance with section
6-15-3, "Sign Standards", of this title, stating that the site is in a DI zone
district and is subject to future drilling and production activities.
         (b)   The mineral rights owners of the subject property shall be given
notification of the application for a conditional use permit in accordance with
the provisions of section
6-2-15, "Public Hearing And Notification Procedures", of this title.
      3.   Recreational vehicle or boat storage, when contiguous to and for the
benefit of an adjacent residential development. (Ord. 768-08, 8-19-2008)
      4.   Drainage sump, provided that mineral rights owners have been given
written consent. (Ord. 782-10, 4-6-2010)
   (D)   Prohibited Uses: All other uses not permitted by subsections (B),
"Permitted Uses", and (C), "Uses Permitted With Conditional Use Permit", of
this section, are prohibited in the DI zone district.
   (E)   Minimum Lot Size: No portion of any lot within the DI zone district
shall contain less than two and one-half (21/2) gross acres in size.
   (F)   Minimum Lot Area Per Dwelling Unit: There is no requirement for
minimum lot area per dwelling unit in the DI zone district since dwelling units
are not permitted.
   (G)   Yards And Setbacks: Pursuant to section
6-10-5, "Development Standards And Conditions", of this title, no oil or gas
well shall be drilled within one hundred feet (100') of the right of way of any
public highway, proposed public highway, official plan line, or specific plan
line in the DI zone district.
   (H)   Height Limits: Height limits in the DI zone district are as follows:
      1.   None on derricks and other equipment used during the exploration and
drilling phase of development.
      2.   Pumping units shall not exceed thirty five feet (35') in height.
   (I)   Minimum Distance Between Structures: Minimum distance between
structures in the DI zone district shall be as provided in section
6-10-5, "Development Standards And Conditions", of this title.
   (J)   Parking: There is no minimum requirement for parking in the DI
district; provided, however, that all vehicle parking and maneuvering areas
shall be treated and maintained with oiled sand or a similar dust binding
material as approved by the public works director.
   (K)   Signs: The following signs are permitted in the DI district in
accordance with the requirements of chapter 15, "Sign Regulations", of this
title:
      1.   Directional signs, warning signs and identification signs, not to
exceed two (2) square feet each in accordance with the provisions of section
6-15-9, "Public Safety Signs", of this title.
      2.   Temporary real estate signs advertising the property for sale or
rent, not to exceed six (6) square feet each, excluding the area of any
vertical and/or horizontal support members, in accordance with the requirements
of section
6-15-6, "Temporary Signs", of this title.
   (L)   Landscaping: Landscaping in the DI zone district shall be approved by
the project assistance team.
   (M)   Special Review Procedures And Development Standards: All drilling and
other hydrocarbon development activity in the DI district shall be carried out
in accordance with the standards and procedures set forth in section
6-10-5, "Development Standards and Conditions", of this title.
   (N)   Implementation Measures:
      1.   Upon cessation of drilling and/or producing operations in drilling
islands, the city will consider initiating zone changes for such drilling
islands to zoning districts compatible with surrounding land uses, provided the
owner/operator demonstrates proper abandonment and cleanup in accordance with
DOGGR regulations.
      2.   Nonpetroleum related discretionary projects proposed on abandoned
oil fields will be required to demonstrate that abandonment and cleanup have
taken place in compliance with regulations administered by DOGGR. (Ord. 768-08,
8-19-2008)
6-3-5: PETROLEUM EXTRACTION (PE) OVERLAY ZONE DISTRICT:
   (A)   Purpose And Intent: The purpose of the petroleum extraction (PE) zone
district is to designate lands containing productive or potentially productive
petroleum resources to promote the development of such resources in a manner
compatible with surrounding development. The PE zone district may be applied
only to those areas that are zoned residential suburban (RS) or general
commercial (GC). The uses allowed and the regulations established by the PE
zone district shall be in addition to the regulations of the base district with
which the PE zone district is combined.
   (B)   Permitted Uses: The following uses and all other uses determined to be
similar to these uses pursuant to section
6-1-9, "Determination Of Similar Use", of this title are permitted in the PE
zone district:
      1.   Wells for the exploration for and development and production of oil
or gas or other hydrocarbon substances if the well or wells are located more
than three hundred feet (300') away from any existing dwelling or existing
building utilized for commercial purposes, excluding those premises utilized
solely for storage of equipment, material, household goods or similar material.
      2.   Deepening or redrilling, within the existing well bore, of any well
used for the production or development of oil, gas or other hydrocarbon
substances, or the replacement of any production facility which did not require
a conditional use permit on the date drilling began or the date the facility
was installed.
      3.   Drilling of a replacement well when the original well did not
require a conditional use permit, and when the original well has not been
abandoned in accordance with California division of oil, gas and geothermal
resources regulations and drilling of a replacement well commences within one
year of the conclusion of abandonment procedures, and the replacement well is
located within twenty feet (20') of the original well or is farther from any
existing dwelling or commercial building than the original well.
      4.   Uses permitted by the base district with which the PE zone district
is combined.
   (C)   Uses Permitted By Conditional Use Permit: The following uses and all
other determined to be similar to these uses, pursuant to section
6-1-9, "Determination Of Similar Use", of this title are permitted in the PE
zone district subject to securing a conditional use permit in accordance with
the provisions of section
6-2-5, "Conditional Use Permit", of this title:
      1.   Wells for the exploration for and development and production of oil
or gas or other hydrocarbon substances if the well or wells are located within
three hundred feet (300') to any existing dwelling or existing building
utilized for commercial purposes, excluding those premises utilized solely for
storage of equipment, material, household goods or similar material.
      2.   Conditional uses permitted by the base district with which the PE
zone district is combined.
   (D)   Prohibited Uses: All other uses not permitted by subsections (B),
"Permitted Uses", and (C), "Uses Permitted By Conditional Use Permit", of this
section, or accessory thereto, or of uses not permitted in the base district,
with which the PE zone district is combined, are prohibited in a PE zone
district.
   (E)   Minimum Lot Size: Minimum lot size requirements in a PE zone district
are per the requirements of the base district with which the PE zone district
is combined.
   (F)   Minimum Lot Area Per Dwelling Unit: Requirements for minimum lot area
per dwelling until in a PE zone district are per the requirements of the base
district with which the PE zone district is combined.
   (G)   Yards And Setbacks: Yard and setback requirements in a PE zone
district are as follows:
      1.   No oil or gas well shall be drilled within one hundred feet (100')
of the right of way of any existing or proposed public highway or street,
official plan line or specific plan line.
      2.   All other uses permitted by the base district shall conform to the
yard and setback requirements of the base district with which the PE zone
district is combined.
   (H)   Height Limits: Height limit requirements in a PE zone district are as
follows:
      1.   No height limit on derricks and other equipment used during the
exploration and drilling phase of development.
      2.   Pumping units shall not exceed thirty five feet (35') in height.
      3.   All other uses permitted by the base district shall conform to the
height limits of the base district with which the PE zone district is combined.
   (I)   Minimum Distance Between Structures: Requirements for minimum distance
between structures in a PE zone district are as follows:
      1.   Per the requirements of chapter 10, "Oil And Gas Production", of
this title.
      2.   All other uses shall comply with the base district with which the PE
zone district is combined.
   (J)   Parking: Parking requirements in a PE zone district are as follows:
      1.   No minimum requirement for drilling and production activities;
provided, however, that all vehicle parking and maneuvering areas shall be
treated and maintained with oiled sand or a similar dust binding material.
      2.   All other uses permitted by the base district shall conform to the
requirements of the base district with which the PE zone district is combined.
   (K)   Signs: The following signs are permitted in a PE zone district in
accordance with the requirements of chapter 15, "Sign Regulations", of this
title:
      1.   Directional signs, warning signs and identification signs in
connection with oil, gas or other hydrocarbons drilling and development
operations not to exceed two (2) square feet each in accordance with the
provisions of section
6-15-9, "Public Safety Signs", of this title.
      2.   Signs permitted by the base district with which the PE zone district
is combined.
   (L)   Landscaping: Landscaping requirements in a PE zone district are per
the requirements of the base district with which the PE zone district is
combined.
   (M)   Special Review Procedures And Development Standards: All drilling and
hydrocarbon development activities in a PE zone district shall be carried out
in accordance with the standards and procedures set forth in section
6-10-5, "Development Standards And Conditions", of this title. (Ord. 768-08, 8-
19-2008)
CHAPTER 4
RESIDENTIAL ZONE DISTRICTS
SECTION:
6-4-1: Purpose And Intent
6-4-2: Residential Development Zone Districts
6-4-3: Use Regulations
6-4-4: Site Development Standards
6-4-5: Objective Design Standards
6-4-6: Personal Use Of Cannabis And Cannabis Products
6-4-1: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
   (A)   The General Plan outlines goals, objectives and policies regarding the
character of residential land uses and development. It is the purpose of this
chapter to provide regulations that implement those goals, objectives and
policies that will assure availability of a wide range of residential housing
opportunities and dwelling unit types to meet the needs of present and future
City residents of all socio-economic groups.
   (B)   It is also the intent of this chapter to ensure adequate light, air,
privacy and open space for each dwelling, minimize traffic congestion, avoid
overloading of utilities resulting from the construction of buildings of
excessive bulk or number in relation to the surrounding land area, protect
residential properties from objectionable noise, illumination, unsightliness,
odors, smoke and other deleterious influences; and facilitate the provisions of
utility services and other public facilities commensurate with anticipated
population, dwelling unit densities and service requirements. (Ord. 805-14, 7-
1-2014; amd. Ord. 849-22, 12-6-2022)
6-4-2: RESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENT ZONE DISTRICTS:
   (A)   Residential Suburban (RS) Zone District: The primary purpose of the
Residential Suburban Zone District is to provide for and protect a rural
atmosphere and lifestyle or a large lot estate atmosphere and lifestyle. This
zone district is intended as an area for development of low density, comprised
of: 1) a large lot subdivision with a maximum allowable density of one dwelling
unit per acre; or 2) a small lot subdivision with a maximum allowable density
of two and one-half (2 ½) dwelling units per acre. This chapter further
establishes minimum development standards, as depicted in section
6-4-3, table 4.B of this chapter for the Residential Suburban Zone District
depicted on the City zoning map.
   (B)   Single-Family Residential (R-1) Zone District: The primary purpose of
the R-1 Zone District is to provide for and protect the atmosphere and
lifestyle associated with detached, single-family residential neighborhoods.
This zone district is intended as an area for detached single-family
residential small lot developments at a maximum allowable density of seven (7)
dwelling units per acre. This chapter further establishes minimum development
standards, as depicted in section
6-4-3, table 4.B of this chapter for the R-1 Zone District depicted on the City
zoning map.
Accessory dwelling units, in addition to existing primary structures, are
permitted pursuant to the provisions of section
6-12-23 of this title.
   (C)   Medium Density Residential (R-2) Zone District: The primary purpose of
the R-2 Zone District is to provide for a range of housing choices for
residents in a more urban setting. The R-2 Zone District provides for
residential development, including small lot single- and multiple-family
detached and attached residential uses at a maximum allowable density of
fifteen (15) dwelling units per net acre. This chapter further establishes
minimum development standards, as depicted in section
6-4-3, table 4.B of this chapter for the R-2 Zone District depicted on the City
zoning map.
   (D)   High Density Residential (R-3) Zone District: The primary purpose of
the R-3 Zone District is to provide for the development of multi-family
attached residential dwelling units with enhanced amenities (common open space
and recreation areas) at a maximum allowable density of twenty-nine (29)
dwelling units per net acre. This chapter further establishes minimum
development standards, as depicted in section
6-4-3, table 4.B of this chapter for the R-3 Zone District depicted on the City
zoning map.
   (E)   Residential Densities:
      1.   Determination: The actual density that may be attained in a
residential district shall be determined by the residential land development
review process and public hearings, as described in chapters 1 and 2 of this
title. The Planning Director, project assistance team, Planning Commission and/
or City Council shall have the authority to reasonably condition proposed
residential development to ensure that appropriate transitions are provided and
that the proposed development is compatible with adjacent residential land
uses, both existing and proposed.
      2.   Threshold Densities: “Threshold densities”, as specified by the
General Plan, may be exceeded up to the “maximum allowable density” for
residentially zone districts, pursuant to the provisions of section
6-11-8, “Development Density; Density Bonuses”, of this title. (Ord. 805-14, 7-
1-2014; amd. Ord. 846-22, 3-15-2022; amd. Ord. 849-22, 12-6-2022)
6-4-3: USE REGULATIONS:
   (A)   Table 4.A Scope: Table 4.A of this section identifies those land uses
or activities that may be permitted in each of the residential zone districts,
subject to the provisions of this chapter, other provisions of this title, and
applicable General Plan policies. Table 4.A of this section also identifies, by
zone district, those land uses and activities that are permitted subject to an
approved conditional use permit, or are prohibited.
   (B)   Special Use Regulations:
      1.   Animals Within Residential Zone Districts:
         (a)   It is the general intent of the City to permit the keeping of
animals within the City without the creation of a nuisance to surrounding
residents and visitors. Animals that may be kept within residential districts
are identified in section
6-12-4 of this title. Animals not listed in section
6-12-4 of this title may be permitted in residential districts, subject to City
review and confirmation that a nuisance condition will not be created.
         (b)   In addition to the provisions of section
6-12-4 of this title, all animals, excluding household pets, shall be kept a
minimum distance of fifty feet (50') from any street. The location of corrals,
fenced enclosures, barns, stables or other enclosures used to confine all such
animals shall also conform to this requirement.
      2.   Equipment and Devices: In all residential districts, air
conditioners, heating, cooling, ventilating, pool, spa, sauna, or similar
mechanical equipment, as well as lighting or electrical devices, shall be
located to minimize impact to the peace, quiet and comfort of neighboring
residents and shall be screened, where possible, from surrounding properties
and streets. All equipment shall be installed and operated in accordance with
chapter 11 of this title and all other applicable City ordinances, standards
and regulations, and shall be subject to approval by the building official
prior to installation.
      3.   Landscaping: All developments in Residential Zone Districts are
required to provide front and street side yard landscaping, and shall consist
predominantly of drought tolerant plant materials, except for necessary walks,
drives and fences, subject to the provisions of section
6-11-41 of this title.
      4.   Front Setback Protrusions: No portion of any building may protrude
into the front setback unless the following conditions are met:
         (a)   Architectural projections, such as unenclosed porch roofs and
support posts, awnings, canopies and roof overhangs may project over the
required front yard setback, but not more than twenty percent (20%) thereof.
Architectural projections along side yards and rear yards shall extend no
closer than thirty inches (30") from the property line.
         (b)   Uncovered porches, platforms or landing places that do not
extend above the level of the first floor of the building may extend into any
front yard not more than six feet (6'), an openwork railing not more than
thirty inches (30") in height may be installed or constructed on any such
porch, platform or landing place.
   TABLE 4.A
   USES PERMITTED WITHIN RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS
   Legend:
   P = Permitted subject to consistency assessment
   C = Permitted subject to approval of a conditional use permit application
   DP = Permitted subject to approval of a Director’s Permit application
   X = Prohibited
Use RS R-1 R-2 R-3
Use                                                                            RS R- R- R-
                                                                                  1  2  3
Accessory uses:
   Accessory dwelling unit, subject to the provisions of section            P  P  P  P
6-12-23  of this title
   Accessory uses and structures located on the same site as a permitted useP  P  P  P
   Accessory uses and structures located on the same site as a use permittedC  C  C  C
subject to a conditional use permit
   Antennas and satellite dishes, subject to section                        P  P  P  P
6-12-8  of this title
   Dormitories accessory to educational institutions                        C  C  C  C
   Feed and tack stores accessory to commercial stables                     C  X  X  X
   Personal use of cannabis and cannabis products, subject to provisions of
section                                                                        P  P  P  P
6-4-5  of this chapter
   Private garage                                                           P  P  P  P
   Private swimming pool, tennis court                                      P  P  P  P
   Recreational vehicle storage yard (associated with residential developmenC) C  C  C
Commercial uses:
   Commercial cannabis activities (all State license types)                 X  X  X  X
   Equestrian centers, riding academies and commercial stables, when        C  C  X  X
associated with an equestrian subdivision
   Hotels, motels                                                           X  X  X  C
   Medical marijuana dispensaries                                           X  X  X  X
   Oil and gas exploration and production                                   C  C  C  C
   Parking lots on a parcel adjacent to and for the use of a commercial     C  C  C  C
property where inadequate parking exists
   Yard or garage sales                                                     P  P  P  X
Home occupations:
   Home occupations (subject to the provisions of section                   P  P  P  P
6-12-18  of this title and the issuance of a home occupation permit)
Public/quasi-public uses:
   Churches                                                                 C  C  C  C
   Clubs, lodges, fraternities and sororities                               C  C  DP DP
   Daycare facilities (per State law)                                       P  P  P  P
   Educational institutions (public and private)                            C  C  C  C
   Fire and police stations                                                 C  C  C  C
   Post Office branch                                                       C  C  C  C
   Public libraries and museums                                             X  C  C  C
   Public parks and recreation, unless project otherwise entails a public   C  C  C  C
hearing, then permitted
   Public utility and public service substations, reservoirs, drainage sumps,
pumping plants, transmission lines and similar installations, not including    C  C  C  C
public utility offices, unless project otherwise entails a public hearing
   Recreational facilities (e.g., country clubs, golf courses), including
recreational uses commonly associated with and directly related to the primary C  C  C  C
use
Residential uses:
   Bed and breakfast inn                                                    C  C  DP DP
   Board and care facility (12 or more residents)                           X  X  C  C
   Boarding/rooming house (7 or more residents)                             X  X  C  C
   Convalescent care                                                        X  C  C  C
   Emergency shelter                                                        X  X  P  X
   Mobile home park                                                         X  C  C  X
   Mobile home subdivision                                                  C  C  C  X
   Multi-family dwellings                                                   X  X  P  P
   Senior congregate care, assisted living                                  X  C  C  C
   Senior independent living                                                X  C  C  C
   Accessory dwelling unit (per section                                     P  P  P  P
6-12-23  of this title)
   Single-family dwelling                                                   P  P  P  C
   Two-Unit Dwelling                                                        P  P  P  P
   Supportive housing                                                       P  P  P  P
   Transitional housing                                                     P  P  P  P
   Temporary uses:
   Temporary uses (subject to the provisions of section                     P  P  P  P
6-2-10  of this title and the issuance of a temporary use permit)
Other uses similar to and no more objectionable than the uses identified above, subject to
approval of the Planning Commission
 
TABLE 4.B
SITE DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
 RS          RS R-1 R-2 R-3
 (Large Lot)
TABLE 4.B
SITE DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
                                        RS          RS     R-1   R-2   R-3
                                        (Large Lot)
Maximum density (dwelling units per     1.0         2.5    7.0   15.0  29.0
acre)
Minimum lot area (net area in square    40,000
feet):                                  (1 acre     20,000 6,000 5,000 3,000
                                        average)
Minimum lot width:                      135' (150'  80'    50'   50'   50'
                                        average)
Minimum lot depth:
   Lot is greater than 20,000 square 200'        130'   100'  100'  100'
feet
   Lot is less than 20,000 square fee150'        125'   100'  100'  100'
Minimum front yard setback:
   Lot adjacent to a straight street 40'         30'    20'   20'   20'
   Cul-de-sac lot or knuckle lot     40'         20'    20'   20'   20'
Minimum interior side yard setback:
   All residential structures        20'         15'    5'    5'    5'
Minimum rear yard setback               15'         10'    5'    5'    10'
Maximum lot coverage                    25%         30%    40%   50%   60%
Maximum height for buildings and        35'         35'    35'   35'   45'
structures
Minimum distance between buildings      10'         10'    10'   10'   10'
Minimum single family dwelling unit
size (square feet). See standard C.4    1,000       1,000  1,000 800   450
below for multiple family unit size.
 
   (C)   Standards:
      1.   Minimum lot width in RS, R-1 and R-2 Zone District along the arc of
the front property line shall be 35 feet for cul-de-sac lots and 40 feet for
knuckle lots.
      2.   Minimum building setback from the centerline of substandard streets
shall be 55 feet for R-1 lots and 65 feet for RS lots.
      3.   A 1 hour or greater firewall, approved by the building official, can
reduce the minimum distance between buildings to 5 feet, depending on the
structure type.
      4.   Minimum multiple-family dwelling unit size is: a) studio, 450 square
feet; b) 1 bedroom, 650 square feet; and c) 2 bedroom, 800 square feet, plus
120 square feet for each additional bedroom in excess of 2.
      5.   In an R-1 subdivision with 21 or more lots, lots can be reduced to
5,000 square feet, provided the average lot size for the entire subdivision is
6,000 square feet.
      6.   In the R-2 zone district, if single-family detached structures are
proposed, the development shall include an Accessory Dwelling Unit.
   (D)   Additional Standards for Condominium, Townhouse and Apartment
Developments:
      1.   Compliance: All condominium and condominium conversion projects
shall comply with the provisions of section
6-11-5, “Condominiums and Condominium Conversions”, of this title.
      2.   Construction Plans: Any proposal for a condominium conversion shall
include a set of original construction plans for the building as part of the
initial application for conversion.
      3.   Inspections: For all condominium conversions, an on-site inspection
shall be made by staff from building, engineering, fire and planning
departments to determine whether the design criteria set forth in this section
has been met. Such inspections shall be made after the initial application but
prior to any approval of the primary entitlement.
      4.   Code Compliance: Condominium, townhouse and apartment developments
shall comply with the latest city adopted California building code, California
mechanical code, California plumbing code, California electrical code,
California fire code, and all other applicable codes, ordinances and
regulations in effect.
      5.   Separate Utility Services: Within for sale projects, including
condominium conversions, separate utility services shall be provided to each
dwelling unit.
      6.   Enclosed Exterior Storage Space: When carports are provided for a
condominium, townhouse or apartment development, a minimum of two hundred sixty
(260) cubic feet of enclosed exterior storage space shall be required for each
carport.
      7.   Shock Mounting of Mechanical Equipment: All permanent mechanical
equipment, such as motors, compressors, pumps and compactors, which is
determined by the building official to be a source of structural vibration or
structure-borne noise, shall be shock mounted with inertia blocks or bases and/
or vibration isolators in a manner approved by the building official.
      8.   Masonry Wall Between Districts: Where a multiple-family dwelling,
including incidental or required accessory uses, abuts property in an RS or R-
1 zone district, a masonry wall six feet (6') in height shall be required along
the property line between such use and the RS or R-1 zone district.
      9.   Greater Setbacks: The planning commission and/or city council may
require a greater setback as part of a precise plan of design due to the size,
width or length of a building and its relationship to a street or intersection
of two (2) streets. In addition, a greater setback may be required to ensure
compatibility with contiguous land uses.
         (a)   In the case of a dwelling structure designated with a patio
above the first floor level, such patio shall be permitted to extend only a
maximum of six feet (6') into the required side or rear yard setback area,
provided the remaining distance between the patio and the property line is at
least ten feet (10').
         (b)   The required side or rear yard setback area may be used for
patio purposes.
         (c)   The front yard setback area, as well as the side yard setback
area when adjacent to a street, shall not be used for parking. Vehicular access
to designated parking areas for the property shall be limited to driveways, as
defined in section
6-14-6 of this title.
   (E)   Vacant Building Registration: Vacant or abandoned residential
buildings are subject to the vacant building registration requirements per
section
6-11-40 of this title and title III, chapter 4.3 of this code. (Ord. 805-14, 7-
1-2014; amd. Ord. 831-18, 3-20-2018; Ord. 846-22, 3-15-2022; Ord. 849-22, 12-6-
2022)
6-4-4: SITE DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS:
   (A)   Parking Requirements:
      1.   Parking for each residential development shall be provided in
compliance with chapter 14 of this title.
      2.   Assigned parking shall be provided within for sale projects,
including condominium conversions.
      3.   On street parking shall not be used to satisfy any of the above
parking requirements.
      4.   Tandem parking shall not be permitted.
   (B)   Landscaping:
      1.   All required front, side and rear yards shall be landscaped with
drought resistant trees, shrubs and ground cover.
      2.   All landscaping shall be provided with a permanently maintained
irrigation system.
   (C)   Open Space: Each residential development shall provide outdoor open
space for recreation and leisure activities within the development site in the
following manner:
      1.   Outdoor open space shall comprise not less than twenty five percent
(25%) of the net acreage. Public or private driveways, parking spaces or other
areas designed for operational functions are not considered open space. These
open spaces may include game courts or rooms, swimming pools, gardens, sauna
baths, tennis courts, putting greens, play lots, outdoor cooking areas, lawn
bowling and setback areas with dimensions greater than fifteen feet (15'). It
is the intent of the city to encourage provision of facilities to accommodate
children of all ages, wherever appropriate.
      2.   Private patios or balconies attached to individual dwelling units
may be computed as required outdoor open space, provided the minimum dimension
is at least ten feet (10') and the minimum area is one hundred fifty (150)
square feet.
      3.   Swimming pools with related deck areas, wading pools, fish ponds,
volleyball courts, barbecue areas, game rooms or other recreational facilities
provided for the common uses of all the residents may be constructed within the
required outdoor living space; however, such facilities shall not occupy more
than fifty percent (50%) of the required outdoor living space.
      4.   Under all conditions, the open spaces created pursuant to the
provisions of this chapter shall remain open and available for such use during
the life of the development.
   (D)   Private Open Space: Each dwelling unit shall have a minimum private
open space of one hundred fifty (150) square feet with a minimum dimension of
ten feet (10'). For units designed above the ground, one or two (2) balconies,
with a combined minimum area of one hundred (100) square feet, shall be
provided.
   (E)   Pedestrian Circulation: A pedestrian circulation system shall be
incorporated into the residential development design for the purpose of
providing direct access to and from all individual dwelling units, trash
storage areas, parking areas, recreational areas and other outdoor living
spaces. The circulation system is subject to review and approval, and shall be
developed with a combination of the following development standards:
      1.   A public sidewalk system shall be development adjacent to all public
streets with a minimum width in accordance with city standards.
      2.   The interior walkway system shall include pedestrian walks or paths
consisting of varying widths designed to provide curvilinear forms wherever
possible. The minimum width of interior pedestrian walks and paths shall be
four feet (4'). Walkway systems shall utilize materials such as concrete,
brick, flagstone or other materials approved by the city.
   (F)   Fences And Walls: A solid fence or masonry wall shall be constructed
around the perimeter of the site when adjacent to streets, commercial,
industrial and/or single-family residential uses. Maximum height shall be six
feet (6'), except within the required front yard or street side yard setback
area where the maximum height shall be forty inches (40"). Fences and walls
shall be in compliance with section
6-11-9 of this title.
   (G)   Laundry Facilities: For sale projects shall be required to provide
laundry facilities for washers and dryers within each residential unit. In the
case of apartments, laundry facilities for washers and dryers shall be
installed within each residential unit, unless common laundry facilities are
provided within each building located within the complex.
   (H)   Lighting: All garages, walkways and driveways shall be lighted during
the hours of darkness as follows:
      1.   Garages: At least one (1) 60-watt light for each two (2) spaces,
located inside the garage;
      2.   Walkways from Parking Areas to Dwelling Units: One hundred (100)
watt light per thirty-five (35) linear feet of walkway;
      3.   Driveways and Alleys: One hundred (100) watt light per fifty (50)
linear feet of alley or driveway; and
      4.   Fixtures: Fixtures for all lights shall be of the type that is
protected from breakage.
   (I)   Trash Collection Areas: Trash collection areas shall be provided
within two hundred feet (200') of the furthest unit to be served; such
collection areas shall be situated to eliminate, insofar as possible, noise and
visual intrusion on adjacent property, as well as to eliminate fire hazards to
adjacent structures. Further, all trash and garbage collection areas, within
residential developments, shall comply with the requirements of section
6-11-30, “Screening Requirements”, of this title.
   (J)   Security Devices: Each door providing ingress and egress to any
dwelling unit subject to this chapter shall be equipped with the following
devices:
      1.   A peephole allowing a person inside the unit to see, at a wide
angle, persons outside of the unit at the door, without the person inside being
seen.
      2.   A deadbolt lock attached to the construction studding. Attachment to
the doorjamb or trim shall not be sufficient to comply with the terms of this
subsection.
   (K)   Maximum Number and Dimensions of Connecting Units: No more than eight
(8) units for single-story and sixteen (16) units for two-story structures may
be connected. Each building may not exceed two hundred feet (200') in any
direction. (Ord. 805-14, 7-1-2014; amd. Ord. 849-22, 12-6-2022)
6-4-5: OBJECTIVE DESIGN STANDARDS:
   (A)   Use regulations: New residential development that meet the underlying
zone requirements shall incorporate the following standards into their design
in order to be processed ministerially through an appropriate permit.
      1.   Building Siting, Access & Orientation: Orient building doors,
windows, and entrances to relate directly to public and private streets,
drives, paseos, greenways, and common open space amenities and generally create
an attractive presence.
         (a)   Provide direct access from ground level residential units to
streets and communal areas.
         (b)   Provide direct access from ground level commercial to the
primary street frontage.
      2.   Access, Circulation & Parking:
         (a)   Maximize a feeling of openness in residential developments by
orienting road access to open space areas and areas of visual interest.
         (b)   Minimize cross circulation between vehicles and pedestrians by
providing a continuous, clearly marked walkway from the parking areas to main
entrances of buildings. The use of enhanced paving for crosswalks and entries
is encouraged (such as concrete surface treatment, brick, terra-cotta or stone
pavers).
         (c)   Provide walkways and/or corridors between residences, parking
areas, and all site facilities for safe access. Pedestrian walkways in parking
areas should be provided, clearly identified, and made safe and attractive
using hardscape design, landscaping and lighting.
         (d)   Incorporate any two (2) or more of the following design features
in surface parking areas of the development:
            (1)   Carports/ Shade Structures providing a minimum of 50% shade
covering for parking area. Carports and Shade Structure shall be constructed of
similar or consistent material, and colors, of the primary residence(s).
            (2)   A minimum 10-foot landscape area (trees, shrubs, groundcover)
at the exterior perimeter of all parking lots. The 10-foot landscape area may
consist of existing and established native and naturalized vegetation and new
container plant material consisting of 24-inch box trees and 1- and 5-gallon
shrubs and groundcover. New planting should consist of a combination of small,
medium, and large-scale trees, shrubs, and groundcover. All landscape and
irrigation shall be consistent with section
6-11-41 of this title.
            (3)   One 24-inch box canopy shade tree for every 30 linear feet of
parking area. Tree spacing may be varied to accommodate site conditions or
design considerations; however, the total number of trees calculated for all
parking areas shall be maintained.
            (4)   Decorative, but non-porous, paving and pavers are encouraged
throughout the site to reduce the amount of irrigation water used due to the
reduced landscaped area.
      3.   Building Scale, Massing and Articulation: Reduce the visual bulk of
new development by incorporating any three (3) of the following design
features:
         (a)   Frontage elements, such as bay windows, porches, projecting
eaves, awnings, and similar elements, to add visual interest and reduce the
scale and mass of buildings.
         (b)   Blank walls without windows, doors, or other articulation are
strongly discouraged. The maximum length of any blank wall shall be limited to
15 feet.
         (c)   Accentuated building corners, with architectural treatments,
such as a change in material, greater building height at the corner, rounded or
chamfered building facades, pronounced building forms, enhanced window
treatments or projections - such as awnings, trellises, parapets, roof
overhangs, etc.
         (d)   Fenestration elements, such as recessed windows, decorative
panels and trim, color accents, offsets and framed openings to reduce their
visual bulk and scale.
         (e)   Patterned garage doors, painted trim, or varied garage door
colors.
         (f)   A change in materials and finishes, providing at least three
materials and finishes across the building façade.
         (g)   A horizontal offset in the building plane consisting of a
minimum six-inch offset in the building façade for every 30 feet of building
frontage.
         (h)   A ten-foot step-back of the third floor.
         (i)   Housing within new residential subdivisions shall, be situated
with recognizable variations in front and side yard building setbacks.
         (j)   To reduce architectural massing at street corners and to create
congruity where a two-story structure is next to a one-story structure, the
incorporation of a one-story element into the two-story structure shall be
required when determined as feasible by the planning director or planning
commission.
      4.   Area: The minimum size for the livable area within a new detached
single-family residence in the city shall be one thousand (1,000) square feet.
      5.   Roofline Variation: Provide variation in the roof lines of new
development through breaks in parapets, varied parapet heights, pitched roofs,
gabled roofs, and/or mansard roofs.
         (a)   The use of roof forms, including shed, gable and hip roofs,
alone or in combination, shall be used to achieve a variety of rooflines for
houses adjacent to public streets. All such roofs shall be of a concrete tile,
approved shake or shingle, or an architectural style composition shingle with
dimensional variations. All other proposed roofing materials shall be subject
to review and approval by the building official.
      6.   Building Materials, Finishes and Colors: Residential dwelling units,
community facilities, and other structures shall provide a unified appearance
through a consistent use of building materials, textures, and colors. Exterior
columns or supports for site elements, such as trellises and porches, shall
utilize materials and colors that are compatible with the rest of the
development. The color of relief, decorative trim, and wood frames shall be
compatible with the overall building color.
         (a)   Materials such as brick, stone, copper, etc. shall be left in
their natural colors. Veneer shall turn corners and avoid exposed edges.
         (b)   Storefronts shall be of a non-reflective glazing.
         (c)   The use of monochromatic and complementary accent and trim
colors is considered to meet the intent of this chapter.
         (d)   The use of bright or garish colors (i.e., fluorescent “hot” or
“day glow” colors) shall not be permitted.
         (e)   The use of colors to express individuality and identity within a
cohesive and attractive framework is encouraged. Such colors should be in
harmony with other colors used in the immediate area.
      7.   Design: Architectural styles and themes should be compatible with
the surrounding environment. However, to assure individuality among projects,
each development shall vary its architectural design to avoid monotony and
create visual interest, while remaining compatible with surrounding
development.
      8.   Sustainable Design Features:
         (a)   Provide an adequately sized, conveniently located, and
accessible area on site for the storage and disposal of refuse and recyclables
(for recycling of paper, glass, plastic, and metal waste).
         (b)   Limit the amount of nighttime light that is projected upward and
beyond the site and direct light into high-traffic areas of the development.
Lighting in parking areas shall be arranged to prevent direct glare into
adjacent dwelling units and onto neighboring uses/ properties.
         (c)   Provide adequate, accessible, and conveniently located bicycle
parking and storage and accommodate bicycle traffic within the development.
         (d)   To the extent feasible, provide roofing materials with a minimum
3-year aged solar reflection and thermal emittance or solar reflection index
equal to or greater than the values specified in the voluntary measures under
California Green Building Standards Code.
         (e)   Provide low flow plumbing fixtures and fittings that do not
exceed the maximum flow rate specified in Table A5.303.2.3.1 (voluntary
measures) of the California Green Building Standards Code and Appliances and
fixtures for commercial applications that meet the provisions of Section
A5.303.3 (voluntary measures) of the California Green Building Standards Code.
      9.   Landscape Elements: All subdividers/developers shall be required to
provide landscaping and an irrigation system for each lot of a residential
subdivision prior to receiving a final inspection for any house constructed in
that subdivision, as follows:
         (a)   Landscaping and an irrigation system for both the front yard and
the street side yard, provided the street side yard is not obscured from sight
from an adjacent street by fencing, of each lot shall be provided. Said
landscaping shall consist of the following:
            (1)   No less than one 15-gallon size tree;
            (2)   Ten percent (10%) of said yard area shall consist of a
landscaped planter; and
            (3)   The remaining portion of said yard area not occupied by a
driveway, shall be improved with sod, including one six-station clock timing
mechanism and two (2) 1-inch valves for irrigation.
         (b)   Any proposal for an alternative landscaping plan shall be
subject to review and approval by the planning director.
         Additionally, each development shall strategically locate landscape
elements to define and accentuate different areas:
         Edges
            i.   Provide a unifying and three-tiered system of formal and
mature trees, dense rows of shrubs and groundcover within the setback areas of
development.
         Gateways
            i.   Frame the project entrances with corner markers, low garden
walls, gateway signage, perennial color accent landscape, and signature trees.
            ii.   Provide enhanced paving and landscape to accentuate the
entrance of the development.
         Internal Drives
            i.   Provide landscaping at internal drives with a consistent
species of low-level shrubs and groundcover between bays of garage doors and
on-street parking spaces, with accent landscape planted at all corners and
bends.
         Paseos & Courtyards
            i.   The spaces between buildings that are not dedicated to parking
and drives may be designed as landscaped paseos and courtyards, with highly
connected paths and planting schemes that match the size, character and
activity envisioned for the space.
            ii.   Landscape elements such as bushes, shrubs, flowers shall be
maintained at a height of no more than three feet when located adjacent to
pedestrian pathways and building facades so that viewpoints are not obstructed.
            iii.   Screen mechanical equipment, garages, maintenance areas, and
utilities with landscape materials, such as vines, hedges, shrubs, berms, or
garden walls so that these are not exposed to view from the street, major
walkways, or residences within the development.
            iv.   Provide clear, legible entry signage to identify each
building. Clearly indicate internal circulation signage and visitor parking
areas. For sites greater than one acre in area, provide a directory and map
that shows the location of buildings and amenities within the neighborhood.
      10.   Floor Plans: If custom homes are not proposed, subdevelopers of
residential subdivisions shall provide a variety of floor plans and building
elevations. as depicted in table 4.C of this section:
TABLE 4.C
RESIDENTIAL FLOOR PLANS AND ELEVATIONS GUIDELINES
Number Of Single-Family Minimum Number of Building Minimum Number of Elevations
Dwellings               Footprints (Excludes       Per Building Footprint
                        Reverse Plans)
TABLE 4.C
RESIDENTIAL FLOOR PLANS AND ELEVATIONS GUIDELINES
Number Of Single-Family Minimum Number of Building Minimum Number of Elevations
Dwellings               Footprints (Excludes       Per Building Footprint
                        Reverse Plans)
1-5                     1                          1 (2 color palettes)
6-25                    2                          2
26-50                   3                          2
51-75                   3                          3
75-100                  4                          3
100+                    5                          3
 
      11.   Elevations: Elevations, for the purpose of meeting the requirements
of this section, shall mean the treatment of materials, trim, roofs or other
architectural features which are considerably different than the elevations of
any other house in the same subdivision as seen from the street upon which it
faces. No two (2) identical elevations shall be placed side by side within a
subdivision.
      12.   Agricultural Land Uses: Where portions of a proposed development
share a common boundary with existing agricultural properties, the following
concepts for transitions and buffers shall be incorporated into the development
proposal where feasible:
         (a)   The incorporation of existing orchards, vineyards and groves
into new development as landscaping, or as passive open space, is encouraged,
however, the following provisions shall be met:
            (1)   All such trees located in a public right of way shall be
approved for that purpose by the public works director.
            (2)   All trees within common areas shall be provided with the
assurance of a continued maintenance mechanism, homeowners’ association or a
special landscape district. (Ord. 849-22, 12-6-2022)
6-4-6: PERSONAL USE OF CANNABIS AND CANNABIS PRODUCTS:
   (A)   Purpose: The purpose and intent of this section is to permit and
regulate the personal use of cannabis and cannabis products in order to promote
the health, safety, and general welfare of the residents within the City.
Personal individual cannabis use shall comply with California Proposition 64,
known as the Adult Use of Marijuana Act (AUMA), and subsequent Medical and
Adult-Use Cannabis Regulation and Safety Act (MAUCRSA) pursuant to California
Health and Safety Code sections 11362.1 through 11362.45.
   (B)   Authority: Authority of approval of personal use of cannabis and
cannabis products shall be vested with the Planning Director and Chief of
Police.
   (C)   Application: An application for personal use of cannabis and cannabis
products shall be filed with the Planning Department in a manner prescribed by
the Planning Director.
   (D)   Definitions: For purposes of this section, please refer to the
definitions listed in subsection
6-12-32(B) of this title.
   (E)   Personal Use of Cannabis and Cannabis Products: To the extent that the
following activities are permitted by State law, nothing in this section shall
prohibit a person twenty-one (21) years of age or older from:
      1.   Possessing, processing, purchasing, transporting, obtaining or
giving away to persons twenty-one (21) years of age or older, without
compensation whatsoever, not more than 28.5 grams of cannabis not in the form
of concentrated cannabis;
      2.   Possessing, processing, purchasing, transporting, obtaining or
giving away to persons twenty-one (21) years of age or older, without
compensation whatsoever, not more than eight grams (8g) of cannabis in the form
of concentrated cannabis, including as contained in cannabis products;
      3.   Smoking or ingesting cannabis or cannabis products in a manner
consistent with California Health and Safety Code section 11362.3;
      4.   Engaging in the indoor cultivation of six (6) or fewer live cannabis
plants within a single private residence or inside an accessory structure
located upon the grounds of a private residence that is fully enclosed and
secured, to the extent such cultivation is authorized by California Health and
Safety Code sections 11362.1 and 11362.2, and to the extent that the
cultivation complies with subsection (F) of this section.
   (F)   Indoor Cannabis Cultivation: Cannabis cultivation shall only occur
indoors at a private residence, or inside an accessory structure located upon
the grounds of a residence, in strict conformance with the following standards:
      1.   Only a person who is at least twenty-one (21) years of age or older
may cultivate cannabis.
      2.   Cannabis cultivation is permitted only within a fully enclosed and
secure structure(s).
      3.   The fully enclosed and secure structure(s) shall be located in the
rear yard area of the parcel or premises, and must maintain a minimum ten-foot
(10') setback from any property line. The yard where the fully enclosed and
secure structure is maintained must be enclosed by a solid fence at least six
feet (6') in height. This provision does not apply to cultivation occurring in
a garage.
      4.   Cannabis cultivation areas shall not be accessible to persons under
twenty-one (21) years of age. Cultivation areas shall be secured by lock and
key or other security device which prevents unauthorized entry.
      5.   Cannabis cultivation shall be limited to six (6) plants total,
regardless of how many persons over the age of twenty-one (21) reside at the
private residence.
      6.   Cannabis cultivation shall only take place on impervious surfaces.
      7.   The use of gas products (CO2, butane, etc.) or CO2 and ozone
generators for cannabis cultivation or processing is prohibited.
      8.   The use of cannabis extraction and concentration techniques,
including but not limited to butane, CO2 or ethanol, to manufacture
concentrated cannabis is strictly prohibited.
      9.   Cannabis cultivation shall not be visible from the public right-of-
way or any privately owned place open to the public.
      10.   The private residence shall remain a residence, with legal
functioning cooking, sleeping and sanitation facilities with proper ingress and
egress. The foregoing rooms and areas shall not be used for cannabis
cultivation where such cultivation will prevent their primary use for cooking
of meals, sleeping and bathing, or any other residential purpose for which the
rooms, space or area was intended.
      11.   Any structure used for cultivation of cannabis shall not become a
public nuisance to surrounding properties or the public. A public nuisance may
be deemed to exist if the cultivation produces odors which are detectable to
people of normal sensitivity residing or present on adjacent or nearby property
or on a public right-of-way. No person shall cultivate cannabis in any manner
that causes any of the following conditions: light, glare, heat, odor, noise,
mold or vibration that is or whose effect is either detrimental to public
health, safety, or welfare or that interferes with the reasonable enjoyment of
life or property.
      12.   A portable fully functional fire extinguisher, that complies with
the regulations and standards adopted by the State Fire Marshal and applicable
law, shall be kept in the residence.
      13.   Cultivation of cannabis shall not displace required off street
parking for the private residence.
      14.   All electrical equipment used in the cultivation of cannabis (e.g.,
lighting and ventilation) shall be plugged directly into a wall outlet or
otherwise hardwired.
      15.   Prior to performing any work on electrical wiring in or upon the
residence, including any modifications, repair or rewiring, the property owner
shall first obtain a building permit, as required, from the Building
Department.
      16.   Any renter or leasee of a residence shall secure and provide to the
City a notarized written authorization from the property owner to cultivate
cannabis on the premises.
   (G)   Enforcement: Any personal use of cannabis and cannabis products within
the City in violation of this section, including any commercial cannabis
activity in residential zone districts, is hereby declared to be unlawful and a
public nuisance.
      1.   Any person who willfully or knowingly: a) engages in a violation of
this section or b) owns, possesses, controls, or has charge of any parcel of
real property in the City upon which a violation of this section is maintained
and who has actual knowledge of such violation (or would have actual knowledge
of such violation after a reasonable inquiry), shall be subject to the
penalties and remedies provided by this section.
      2.   Any violation of this section shall constitute a separate offense
for each day the violation occurs or persists.
      3.   Any person in violation of any provision of this section or who
causes another person to be in violation of this section shall have committed a
misdemeanor. In addition, which shall be punishable by a fine of one thousand
dollars ($1,000.00) for each violation and for each day the applicable
violation continues to persist.
      4.   Any person in violation of any provision of this section shall be
punishable by an administrative fine of one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) per
offense. (Ord. 831-18, 3-20-2018; amd. Ord. 849-22, 12-6-2022)
CHAPTER 5
COMMERCIAL ZONE DISTRICTS
SECTION:
6-5-1: Purpose And Intent
6-5-2: Commercial Development Zone Districts
6-5-3: Use Regulations
6-5-4: Site Development Standards
6-5-5: Objective Design Standards
6-5-1: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
   (A)   The General Plan outlines goals, objectives and policies regarding the
character and location of commercial uses and development within the City. It
is the purpose of this chapter to provide regulations which implement those
goals, objectives and policies, and which assure the availability of commercial
uses within the City. Commercially zoned districts should be conveniently
located, efficient, attractive and designed in a manner that ensures safe and
convenient commercial activity in order to serve the retail and service
commercial needs of City residents and businesses.
   (B)   It is the further intent of the regulations contained in this chapter
to:
      1.   Provide appropriately located areas for retail stores, service
establishments and commercial commodities and services required by residents of
the City and the surrounding market area;
      2.   Encourage the concentration of commercial and office uses for the
convenience of the public, and to secure mutually beneficial relationships to
one another;
      3.   Provide adequate space to meet the needs of commercial development,
including off street parking and loading areas;
      4.   Minimize traffic congestion and to avoid the overloading of
utilities by regulating the construction of buildings to excessive size
relative to the land uses in the City;
      5.   Protect commercial properties from noise, odor, smoke, unsightliness
and other objectionable influences incidental to industrial uses; and
      6.   Promote high standards of site planning, architectural and landscape
design for commercial developments within the City.
      7.   Encourage the expansion of well-designed mixed-use commercial/
residential developments in appropriate locations. (Ord. 805-14, 7-1-2014; amd.
Ord. 849-22, 12-6-2022)
6-5-2: COMMERCIAL DEVELOPMENT ZONE DISTRICTS:
   (A)   Mixed Use (MU) Zone District: The Mixed Use Zone District is intended
to provide maximum flexibility by allowing combinations of commercial and
multiple-family residential uses on the same parcel of land.
   (B)   General Commercial (GC) Zone District: The primary purpose of the
General Commercial Zone District is to provide sites for commercial uses that
will serve a large segment of the population with a wide variety of retail,
wholesale, service and office uses.
   (C)   Downtown Commercial (DC) Zone District:
      1.   The General Plan outlines the goals, objectives and policies
establishing the character and location of the Downtown Commercial (DC) Zone
District. It is the purpose of this chapter to provide regulations that will
implement those goals, objectives and policies that assure the preservation of
the character and vitality of the City.
      2.   The provisions of this chapter are intended to ensure that the
limited commercial and office related development permitted within the DC Zone
District respects the historic significance of the downtown area by requiring
that all proposed buildings and structures reflect the downtown’s architectural
theme and are compatible with the surrounding residential community. (Ord. 805-
14, 7-1-2014; amd. Ord. 849-22, 12-6-2022)
6-5-3: USE REGULATIONS:
Identified on table 5.A of this section are those land uses or activities that
may be permitted in each commercial zone district, permitted subject to an
approved conditional use permit or prohibited. This table also indicates the
development procedure and the approval type by which each listed land use or
activity may be permitted in each commercial zone district.
TABLE 5.A
USES PERMITTED WITHIN COMMERCIAL ZONE DISTRICTS
Legend:
P   =   Permitted subject to consistency assessment
C   =   Permitted subject to approval of a conditional use permit application
DP   =   Permitted subject to approval of a director’s Permit application
X   =   Not permitted in this district
Use MU GC
Use                                                                              MU GC
Accessory uses:
   Accessory uses and structures located on the same site as a permitted use  P  P
   Accessory uses and structures located on the same site as a use permitted  C  C
subject to a conditional use permit
Commercial uses:
   Adult entertainment                                                        X  X
   Agricultural                                                               X  X
   Ambulance service                                                          P  DP
   Antique shops                                                              P  P
   Apparel stores (sales)                                                     P  P
   Appliance stores and repair                                                P  P
   Arcades                                                                    DP DP
   Art galleries, music, dance studios, photographic studios and supply storesP  P
   Auction houses                                                             X  C
   Auto supply store                                                          P  P
   Automobile repair                                                          C  DP
   Automotive and light truck sales/service                                   DP P
   Automotive dealerships subject to section                                  C  P
6-12-10  of this title
   Automotive paint and body                                                  X  DP
   Automotive rental agencies (excluding outdoor storage)                     P  P
   Automotive rental agencies (including outdoor storage)                     DP DP
   Automotive washing (self- or full service)                                 X  P
   Bail bond services                                                         P  P
   Bakeries (retail)                                                          P  P
   Barber and beauty shops                                                    P  P
   Bicycle shops (nonmotorized)                                               P  P
   Blueprint and photocopy services                                           P  P
   Boat and RV (sales only)                                                   C  P
   Book, gifts and stationery stores                                          P  P
   Building materials sales/home improvement (indoors)                        P  P
   Building materials sales/outdoor storage (masonry, sand, gravel)           C  C
   Camera shops                                                               P  P
   Candle shops                                                               P  P
   Candy stores and confectioneries                                           P  P
   Cannabis cultivation, indoor (licenses for medical or adult- use, specialtyX  X
cottage, specialty, small, medium, nurseries, and processors)
   Cannabis cultivation, outdoor (licenses for medical or adult- use, specialtX  X
cottage, specialty, small, medium, nurseries, and processors)
   Cannabis distributors and distributor transport only (license types 11 and X  X
13)
   Cannabis event organizers and temporary cannabis events (license type 14)  X  X
   Cannabis manufacturer (medical or adult-use, license type 6, type 7, type NX  X
infusions, and type P-packaging and labeling only)
   Cannabis microbusiness (license type 12)                                   X  X
   Cannabis retail sales/dispensary (license type 10)                         X  X
   Cannabis retail sales, non-storefront (license type 9)                     X  X
   Cannabis testing facility (license type 8)                                 X  X
   Catering establishments                                                    P  P
   Cemetery (human)                                                           X  X
   Cleaning and pressing establishments                                       P  P
   Clothing and costume rental                                                P  P
   Cocktail lounge/bar, including upgrading an existing ABC license (e.g., beer
and wine to a hard liquor license) (refer to section                             C  C
6-12-5  of this title)
   Commercial recreational facilities (indoor)                                P  P
   Commercial recreational facilities (outdoor)                               C  C
   Communication and telecommunication facilities (radio and television)      C  C
   Convenience store (including alcohol sales)                                C  C
   Convenience store (no alcohol sales)                                       P  P
   Dairy products stores                                                      P  P
   Department stores                                                          P  P
   Drapery and decorating shops                                               P  P
   Dress making shops                                                         P  P
   Drive-through businesses, including financial institutions, theaters,
restaurants, and other similar businesses utilizing a drive-through lane subject C  C
to provisions of section
6-12-15  of this title
   Driving schools                                                            P  P
   Drugstore/pharmacy                                                         P  P
   With drive-through service (subject to provisions of section               C  C
6-12-15  of this title)
   Electronic coin operated games (commercial operated) 5 or more games (subject
to section                                                                       C  C
6-12-9  of this title)
   Electronic coin operated games (commercial operated) less than 5 games     P  P
   Feed and tack stores                                                       P  P
   Fireworks stand, subject to the provisions of section                      P  P
6-12-17  of this title
   Floor covering stores (may include incidental repair)                      P  P
   Floral shops                                                               P  P
   Food stores and supermarkets                                               P  P
   Furniture stores, repair and upholstery                                    P  P
   General retail stores                                                      P  P
   Hardware stores (no outdoor storage)                                       P  P
   Hardware stores (outdoor storage)                                          C  C
   Health clubs, dance studios, martial arts, weight training and similar usesP  P
   Hobby shops                                                                P  P
   Home improvement (indoor)                                                  P  P
   Home improvement (outdoor)                                                 C  C
   Hookah lounges                                                             X  X
   Hotels and motels                                                          P  P
   Insurance services                                                         P  P
   Internet café                                                             P  P
   Janitorial services and supplies                                           P  P
   Jewelry stores                                                             P  P
   Kiosks (parking lot film processing and key shops)                         P  P
   Laundry pick up and delivery agencies and self-service laundries (includes P  P
diaper service)
   Liquor stores                                                              C  C
   Locksmith shops                                                            P  P
   Massage therapist (subject to provisions of title IV, chapter 20 of this   P  P
Code)
   Meat markets                                                               P  P
   Medical marijuana dispensaries                                             X  X
   Mini-storage                                                               C  P
   Miniature golf courses                                                     DP P
   Mortgage services                                                          P  P
   Mortuaries                                                                 C  C
   Motorcycle shops (sales and service)                                       P  P
   Music stores                                                               P  P
   Newspaper and magazine stores                                              P  P
   Nurseries and garden supply stores (provided all equipment and supplies areP  P
kept within a building or fenced enclosed area)
   Office and business machines stores (sales, service and repair)            P  P
   Paint and wall covering stores                                             P  P
   Parking facilities (off site)                                              DP DP
   Pet shops                                                                  P  P
   Plumbing shops and supplies                                                P  P
   Political or philanthropic headquarters                                    P  P
   Pottery sales                                                              P  P
   Printing and copy shops (other than newspaper)                             P  P
   Real estate services                                                       P  P
   Recycling facilities (subject to provisions of section                        
6-12-22  of this title):
      Reverse vending machines                                             P  P
      Small collection facilities                                          X  C
      Large collection facilities                                          X  X
   Restaurants:
      With drive-through service (subject to provisions of section         P  P
6-12-15  of this title)
      With entertainment and/or serving alcoholic beverages, including upgrading
an existing ABC license (refer to section                                        C  C
6-12-5  of this title)
   Secondhand stores/pawnshops                                                P  P
   Service stations (automotive, with alcoholic beverage sales) subject to
sections                                                                         C  C
6-12-5  and
6-12-25  of this title
   Service stations (automotive, without alcoholic beverage sales) subject to
section                                                                          P  P
6-12-25  of this title
   Shoe stores (repairs)                                                      P  P
   Shopping centers                                                           X  P
   Sign painting shops within a completely enclosed building                  P  P
   Smoking lounge, private (subject to provisions of section                  C  C
6-12-30  of this title)
   Sporting goods store                                                       P  P
   Stamp and coin shops                                                       P  P
   Stationery stores                                                          P  P
   Statue shops                                                               P  P
   Surveying services                                                         P  P
   Swimming pool and spa (sales, service and supply)                          P  P
   Tailor shops                                                               P  P
   Tattoo parlor                                                              C  C
   Taxidermists (no processing)                                               P  P
   Telegraph offices                                                          P  P
   Televisions (radio sales and repair)                                       P  P
   Theaters, including both motion picture and live performing arts           C  C
   Tire sales and service                                                     C  C
   Tobacco shop (subject to provisions of section                             C  C
6-12-30  of this title)
   Toy stores                                                                 P  P
   Travel agencies                                                            P  P
   Truck storage yard when adjacent to Industrial Zone District               X  C
   Upholstering shops (indoor only)                                           P  P
   Variety stores                                                             P  P
   Veterinary offices and animal hospitals, including exterior kennels, pens oX  C
runs
Manufacturing uses:
   Oil and gas exploration and production, subject to the provisions of chapteC  C
10 of this title
Office and related uses:
   Administrative and executive offices                                       P  P
   Artist and photographic studio, including sale of equipment or supplies    P  P
   Clerical and professional offices                                          P  P
   Financial services and institutions                                        P  P
   With drive-through services (subject to provisions of section              C  C
6-12-15  of this title)
   Medical, dental and related health services for humans, including clinics, P  P
laboratories and the sale of articles clearly incidental to services provided
Public and quasi-public uses:
   Auditoriums                                                                C  C
   Churches, synagogues, mosques, temples                                     C  C
   Clubs, lodges, fraternities and sororities                                 DP DP
   Communication and telecommunication facilities (not including radio and    C  C
television)
   Convalescent homes, hospitals                                              C  C
   Convention hall, trade show, exhibit building with incidental food servicesC  C
   Dances, per title IV, chapter 6 of this Code                               C  P
   Day nurseries, nursery schools and childcare facilities per State law      DP DP
   Educational institutions (including public or private vocational schools)  DP DP
   Fire and police stations                                                   P  P
   Post offices                                                               P  P
   Public administration buildings and civic centers                          P  P
   Public libraries and museums                                               P  P
   Public parks and recreation facilities (public or private)                 P  P
   Public utilities and public service substations, reservoirs, pumping plants
and similar installations, not including public utility offices, unless project  C  C
otherwise entails a public hearing, then permitted
   Public utility services offices                                            P  P
   Recreational vehicle parks                                                 C  C
   Residential care facility (per State law)                                  DP DP
   Transportation facilities                                                  C  C
Residential uses:
   Emergency shelters                                                         X  X
   Multi-family residential dwellings                                         C  X
   Residence in conjunction with a business                                   C  X
   Single-family residential dwellings                                        X  X
   Supportive housing                                                         C  X
   Transitional housing                                                       C  X
Temporary uses:
   Temporary uses as prescribed in section
6-2-10  of this title, are permitted subject to issuance of a temporary use      P  P
permit
   Other uses similar to, and no more objectionable than, the uses identified above,
shall be reviewed per the process required by the similar use, as determined by the
Planning Commission
 
(Ord. 831-18, 3-20-2018; amd. Ord. 833-18, 4-17-2018; Ord. 844-21, 11-16-2021;
Ord. 849-22, 12-6-2022)
6-5-4: SITE DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS:
   (A)   General Requirements: Table 5.B of this section describes the minimum
site development standards applicable to proposed and existing development in
all commercial zone districts. All commercial development shall conform to the
standards established in this section.
      1.   A development or commercial center may, for purposes of meeting the
minimum site size standards, consist of a combination of parcels whose total
net acreage meets the minimum site size criteria; provided, that the design for
the entire site is integrated and unified.
      2.   In addition to the minimum standards established in table 5.B of
this section, developments within the commercial zone districts shall also
comply with the special requirements contained in subsection (B) of this
section, chapter 13, “Performance Standards”, of this title, other City
regulations and ordinances, and the City General Plan.
TABLE 5.B
COMMERCIAL SITE DEVELOPMENT MINIMUM STANDARDS
Requirement MU GC
TABLE 5.B
COMMERCIAL SITE DEVELOPMENT MINIMUM STANDARDS
Requirement                                                MU       GC
Minimum site area (square feet, net)                       12,500 1 6,500
Minimum site width, in feet                                65       65
Minimum site depth, in feet                                100      100
Front building setback, in feet                            0        0
Side street building setback area, street sides, in feet   0        0
Rear setback                                               0        0
Maximum floor area ratio                                   0.85     0.50
Building height, in feet, maximum (may be exceeded with an 45       45
approved conditional use permit)
 
   (B)   Special Requirements:
      1.   All uses in the commercial districts shall comply with the
provisions of section
6-11-30, “Screening Requirements”, of this title, and shall provide street side
landscaping as required by the Planning Director.
      2.   Where off street parking areas in the General Commercial Zone
Districts are situated in a visual corridor, as may be defined in a precise
plan adopted by the City Council, screening, such as a landscaped earthen berm
or decorative wall no less than two feet (2') in height, shall be erected
between the street right-of-way and the parking area.
      3.   In all commercial zone districts, no external security bars shall be
permitted on structures.
      4.   Parking for each use shall comply with the provisions of chapter 14
of this title.
   (C)   Exceptions:
      1.   The creation of new lots within the commercial zone districts shall
conform to the minimum allowable dimensions, except in the case of commercial
condominium lots or lots within a shopping center, in which case no minimums
are established, provided the commercial development is consistent with other
requirements of this title and applicable City standards, regulations and
ordinances.
      2.   Parcels created within shopping centers are exempt from the site
development standards stated herein, as they relate to minimum site areas, and
minimum lot width and depth, if a conceptual development plan for the entire
center has been approved and if appropriate easements for reciprocal access
parking and maintenance are provided.
      3.   When abutting a residentially zoned district, the front, side and
rear yard setbacks of that residentially zoned district shall apply to the
commercial development abutting that residentially zoned district.
   (D)   Vacant Building Registration: Vacant or abandoned residential and
nonresidential buildings are subject to the vacant building registration
requirements per section
6-11-40 of this title and title III, chapter 4.3 of this Code.
   (E)   Fences And Walls: Walls, for the purpose of visual screening and sound
attenuation, shall be required between nonresidential uses and any adjacent
residential use or residentially zoned property, or where more sensitive
adjacent land uses exist. Maximum height shall be six feet (6'), except within
the required front yard or street side yard setback area where the maximum
height shall be forty inches (40"). Fences and walls shall be in compliance
with section
6-11-9 of this title.
   (F)   Residential Uses in Commercial Zone Districts:
      1.   Multi-family residential and mixed-use residential developments in
the MU and DC Zone Districts are allowed a maximum residential density of
twenty-nine dwelling units per acre (29 du/ac) consistent with the mixed use
land use designation of the General Plan.
      2.   A residence, on the first or ground floor of a commercial unit, in
conjunction with business is conditionally allowed when the property owner,
business operator, and resident are the same person(s). In such cases, the
residential and commercial uses shall comply with all requirements of the
California Building Code.
      3.   Multi-family residential and mixed-use residential developments in
the MU Zone District shall comply with the development standards outlined for
the High Density Residential (R-3) Zone District in Chapter 4, Section
6-4-3 of this Title.
      4.   Any Multi-family residential and mixed-use residential developments
within the Mixed Use zone district, as allowed by this Chapter, may be
considered for Directors/Admin approval if they comply with all applicable
development standards and the Residential Objective Design Standards found at
Chapter 4, Section
6-4-5 of this Title. (Ord. 822-16, 9-20-2016; amd. Ord. 849-22, 12-6-2022)
6-5-5: OBJECTIVE DESIGN STANDARDS:
   (A)   Use Regulations: New developments that meet the underlying zone
requirements shall incorporate the following standards into their design in
order to be processed ministerially through an appropriate permit, unless a
better alternative is found to the satisfaction of the planning director:
      1.   The design and layout of a proposed development shall be consistent
with the general plan, the provisions of this title and any adopted
architectural criteria for specialized areas, such as designated historic
districts, theme areas, specific plans or planned developments.
      2.   New, renovated or remodeled developments shall demonstrate that the
following general design criteria have been integrated into the design and
layout of the proposed development:
         (a)   Establish an architectural and siting design theme that is
compatible with surrounding existing and planned development that includes the
following elements:
            (1)   A relationship to prominent design features existing in the
immediate area (i.e., trees, landform, key elements of adjacent development,
etc.);
            (2)   A relationship to existing structures and neighborhood
character. This includes prohibiting any device being or resembling security
bars, gates or other similar security devices from being placed over or on
windows or doors on the exterior of any building, or the interior of any
building if visible from a public street or public right of way; excepting
doors and windows on the ground level portion of the rear of a building facing
an alley;
            (3)   A relationship to the natural environment (i.e., washes,
native vegetation and community landscaping).
         (b)   Design the development to create pleasing transitions to and
from surrounding development by incorporating the following elements:
            (1)   The bulk of new structures relates to the prevailing or
planned scale of adjacent development;
            (2)   Setbacks from streets and adjacent properties relate to the
scale of the structure and the function of the street and encourage pedestrian
scale and uses; and
            (3)   Tall structures are made less imposing by physically stepping
them back from the street.
         (c)   Respect the identified views and view corridors of existing
developments to the greatest extent possible. Where applicable, view corridors
oriented toward such existing or proposed community amenities, such as parks,
open space or natural features, are to be enhanced.
         (d)   Create subtle variations in architectural and landscape
components that provide visual interest, but do not create abrupt changes or
cause discord in the overall character of the neighborhood.
         (e)   Provide appropriate transitions between different projects by
providing buffer areas, landscaping and other similar treatments (e.g., hedges,
walls, fences, berms or landscaped open space).
         (f)   Provide a harmonious appearance of the development with the
surrounding environment and existing developments based on the compatibility of
individual structures rather than one specific style of architecture.
         (g)   Avoid uninterrupted fences and walls, unless they are needed for
specific screening, safety or sound attenuation purpose. Where needed, fences
or walls shall be required to:
            (1)   Relate to the site being developed as well as surrounding
developments, open spaces, streets and pedestrian ways;
            (2)   Respect existing view corridors to the greatest extent
possible; and
            (3)   Incorporate landscape elements or changes in materials, color
or texture in order to discourage graffiti, and prevent undue glare, heat,
reflection or aesthetic inconsistencies.
         (h)   Incorporate the following lighting concerns into development
proposals:
            (1)   Lighting fixtures are to be attractively designed to
complement the overall design theme of the project;
            (2)   Lighting shall create a festive atmosphere within commercial
areas by outlining buildings, trees or other architectural features to
encourage nighttime use of those areas by pedestrians; and
            (3)   On site lighting shall create a safe environment, adhering to
established crime prevention standards, but shall not result in nuisance levels
of light or glare on adjacent properties.
         (i)   Architectural plans for development shall be required to
incorporate the following building elevation and screening criteria:
            (1)   All exterior wall elevations of buildings and screen walls
shall have architectural treatments that enhance the appearance of the building
or wall;
            (2)   Compatible materials and consistent style shall be evident
within a development in all exterior elevations; and
            (3)   Within multi-family, commercial, office and mixed-use
business park developments, trash enclosures, loading areas, mechanical
equipment and storage areas shall be screened from public streets, and from
other public views, as appropriate. (Ord. 849-22, 12-6-2022)
CHAPTER 6
INDUSTRIAL ZONE DISTRICT
SECTION:
6-6-1: Purpose And Intent
6-6-2: Industrial (I) Zone District
6-6-3: Use Regulations
6-6-4: Site Development Standards
6-6-1: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
   (A)   The General Plan outlines the goals, objectives and policies
establishing the character and location of regional commercial and industrial
land uses within the City. It is the purpose of this chapter to provide
regulations that implement those goals, objectives and policies that assure the
availability of a solid and diversified economic base that is capable of
offering a wide range of employment to the residents of the City.
   (B)   The provisions of this chapter are intended to ensure that specific,
well defined patterns of industrial activities are established which are
compatible with the surrounding land uses, provide adequate access to the
regional transportation network, and accommodate the employment and personal
needs of workers and business visitors which meet the service needs of local
businesses.
   (C)   It is the further intent of the provisions of this chapter to:
      1.   Preserve appropriate areas for industrial uses and protect these
areas from intrusion by residential and other incompatible land uses;
      2.   Protect adjacent land uses from noise, odor, dust, smoke, truck
traffic, fire, explosion, radiation and other potential hazards and
objectionable influences associated with certain industrial uses;
      3.   Provide adequate open space around industrial structures to protect
them from hazards and to minimize the impact of industrial plants on nearby
residential or commercial districts; and
      4.   Minimize traffic congestion and avoid overloading utilities by
regulating the construction of buildings and structures of excessive size
relative to the size of the building parcel. (Ord. 805-14, 7-1-2014)
6-6-2: INDUSTRIAL (I) ZONE DISTRICT:
The primary purpose of the Industrial (I) Zone District is to provide
appropriate regulations and suitable locations for manufacturing, research and
development, warehousing and distribution, multi-tenant industrial uses, in
addition to administrative support, professional offices, and commercial
activities on a limited basis. This zone district is intended to provide an
area for the establishment of light industrial and limited service commercial
uses which meet high performance standards, but which usually cannot meet site
development standards applicable to planned research and development parks.
(Ord. 805-14, 7-1-2014)
6-6-3: USE REGULATIONS:
   (A)   Identified in table 6.A of this section are those land uses or
activities which may be permitted in the Industrial Zone District, subject to
the provisions of this title and applicable General Plan policies. This table
also indicates development procedure and approval type by which each listed
land use or activity may be permitted in the Industrial Zone District.
   (B)   Land uses within the Industrial Zone District shall meet the
provisions of section
6-11-11, "Hazardous Materials Management", of this title, and all applicable
local, State and Federal hazardous materials legislation, in addition to the
provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   If permitted, land uses within the Industrial Zone District which are
or would be deemed "hazardous materials handlers or generators", as defined in
the County hazardous waste management plan, shall be subject to section
6-2-5, "Conditional Use Permit", of this title, notwithstanding the application
process which may be specified in this chapter.
TABLE 6.A
USES PERMITTED WITHIN THE INDUSTRIAL ZONE DISTRICT
To view Table 6.A Uses Permitted Within The Industrial Zone District, click
HERE
Legend:
P = Permitted subject to consistency assessment
C = Permitted subject to approval of a conditional use permit application
X = Prohibited
Industrial Uses I
Industrial Uses                                                               I
Accessory uses:                                                                
Accessory uses and structures located on the same site as a permitted use     P
Accessory uses and structures located on the same site as a use permitted     C
subject to a conditional use permit
Watchman/caretaker living quarters only when incidental to and on the same
site as a permitted or conditional use (where 24 hour surveillance is         C
required)
Commercial uses and services:                                                  
Adult entertainment (as provided in section                                   P
6-12-3 of this title)
All uses either permitted or conditionally permitted in the commercial        P
districts, except residential uses (unless otherwise specified in this table)
Auction house                                                                 P
Automotive fleet storage                                                      P
Automotive repair (minor)                                                     P
Automotive sales, service and rental agencies                                 P
Automotive, truck, bus and recreational vehicular repair (major)              C
Bakery shops (retail and wholesale)                                           P
Barber and beauty colleges                                                    P
Blueprinting and photocopying                                                 P
Boat and camper sales, manufacture and repairs                                P
Cannabis event organizers and temporary cannabis events (license type 14)     X
Cannabis retail sales/dispensary (license type 10)                            X
Cannabis retail sales, non-storefront (license type 9)                        X
Car wash (self- or full service)                                              P
Cleaning and pressing establishments                                          P
Cocktail lounge/bar, including upgrading existing ABC license (e.g., beer and
wine to hard liquor license) (refer to section                                C
6-12-5 of this title)
Commercial recreational facilities (indoor)                                   P
Commercial recreational facilities (outdoor)                                  C
Communication and telecommunications facilities (radio and television)        C
Driving schools                                                               P
Exterminators                                                                 P
Fruit and/or vegetable stand                                                  X
Furniture stores (sales, manufacture, repair and upholstery)                  P
Glass shops and glass studio                                                  P
Hookah lounges                                                                X
Hotels and motels                                                             C
Kennel and catteries                                                          C
Lumber and building material yards                                            P
Medical marijuana dispensaries                                                X
Mortuaries                                                                    C
Newspaper and magazine shops (printing and publishing)                        P
Parking facilities, commercial                                                P
Plumbing shops and supplies                                                   P
Printing and copy shops                                                       P
Recycling facilities (subject to provisions of section
6-12-22 of this title):
   Reverse vending machines                                                P
   Small and large collection facilities                                   C
   Light and heavy processing facilities                                   C
Restaurants (including drive-through)                                         P
Restaurants other than fast food (refer to section
6-12-5 of this title):
With drive-through services (subject to provisions of section                 C
6-12-15 of this title)
With entertainment and/or serving alcoholic beverages, including upgrading an C
existing ABC license (e.g., beer and wine to a hard liquor license)
Without entertainment and/or serving alcoholic beverages                      P
Service stations (subject to section                                          C
6-12-25 of this title)
Sign painting shops                                                           P
Smoking lounge, private (subject to provisions in section                     C
6-12-30 of this title)
Tattoo parlors                                                                P
Tire retreading and recapping                                                 C
Tire shops (retail and service)                                               P
Tobacco shop (subject to provisions of section                                C
6-12-30 of this title)
Truck wash                                                                    C
Vending machine service and repair                                            P
Veterinary offices and animal hospitals, including exterior kennels, pens or  C
runs
Manufacturing uses:                                                            
Bakery/food preparation                                                       P
Batch plants                                                                  C
Bottling plants                                                               P
Cannabis cultivation, indoor (licenses for medical or adult-use, specialty    X
cottage, specialty, small, medium, nurseries, and processors)
Cannabis cultivation, outdoor (licenses for medical or adult-use, specialty   X
cottage, specialty, small, medium, nurseries, and processors)
Cannabis distributors and distributor transport only (license types 11 and    X
13)
Cannabis manufacturer (medical or adult-use, license type 6, type 7, type N-  X
infusions, and type P-packaging and labeling only)
Cannabis microbusiness (license type 12)                                      X
Cannabis testing laboratory (license type 8)                                  X
Carpenter and cabinet shops                                                   P
Cement products manufacturing                                                 C
Electronics: electrical and related parts; electrical appliances, motors and  P
devices; radio, television, computers
Fruit, vegetable and plant products processing, and retail services,          P
including cold storage, packing, preserving, canning and shipping
Furniture upholstering                                                        P
Instruments: electronic and precision; medical and dental; timing and         P
measuring
Laboratories: chemical, dental, electrical, optical, mechanical and medical   P
Manufacture and maintenance of electrical and other signs                     P
Manufacturing, compounding, assembly or treatment of articles or merchandise
from the following previously prepared typical materials: canvas, cellophane,
cloth, cork, felt, fiber, fur, glass, leather, paper (no milling), precious   P
or semiprecious stones or metals, plaster, shells, textiles, tobacco, wood
and yarns
Office and related machinery: audio machinery, visual and electrical          P
equipment machinery
Oil and gas exploration and production, subject to provisions of chapter 10   P
of this title
Pharmaceuticals: cosmetics, drugs, perfumes, toiletries and soap (not         P
including refining or rendering of fats or oils)
Processing frozen food products                                               P
Rubber and metal stamp manufacturing                                          C
Welding shops                                                                 C
Office and related uses:                                                       
Administrative and executive offices (incidental to primary use)              P
Clerical and professional offices (incidental to primary use)                 P
Financial/mortgage services and institutions                                  P
With drive-through services (subject to provisions of section                 C
6-12-15 of this title)
Medical, dental and related health services for humans, including
laboratories, clinics and the sale of articles clearly incidental to the      P
services provided
Prescription pharmacies when located within a building containing the offices P
of medical practitioners
Public and quasi-public uses:                                                  
Bus, rail, rail freight classification or switching yard, rail spurs and taxi P
stations
Churches, clubs, lodges, fraternities and sorority headquarters               C
Day nurseries, nursery schools and childcare facilities, per State law        C
Educational institutions, museums, public libraries                           C
Fire and police facilities                                                    P
Postal services                                                               P
Public administration buildings                                               P
Public utility and public service substations, reservoirs, drainage sumps,
pumping plants, transmission line and similar installations, not including    C
public utility offices, unless project otherwise entails a public hearing,
then permitted
Public utility services offices                                               P
Recreational facilities (e.g., golf courses, parks)                           C
Temporary uses:                                                                
Temporary uses as prescribed in section
6-2-10, "Temporary Use Permit", of this title and based upon issuance of a    P
temporary use permit
Wholesale uses and warehousing:                                                
General wholesale, storage and distribution, including warehousing, storage,  P
freight handling, shipping
Mini-storage, self-storage units (commercial)                                 P
Recreational vehicle storage (screening of outdoor storage required)          P
Vehicle storage/towing services (screening of outdoor storage required)       P
Vehicle wrecking and storage (screening of outdoor storage required)          C
Warehousing from the premises of unfinished, raw and semirefined products
requiring further processing, fabrication or manufacturing; contractors'
storage yards, including the storage of equipment, materials and vehicles for P
the construction industry (screening of outdoor storage required); truck
terminals, outdoor storage yards
Other uses similar to, and no more objectionable than, the uses identified     
above, may be permitted subject to approval by the Planning Commission
 
(Ord. 831-18, 3-20-2018; amd. Ord. 833-18, 4-17-2018; Ord. 844-21, 11-16-2021)
6-6-4: SITE DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS:
   (A)   General Requirements:
      1.   Table 6.B of this section establishes the minimum property
development standards for all land, buildings and structures constructed within
the Industrial Zone District. All sites shall conform to the dimensions
established by this section.
      2.   A development or business park may, for the purposes of meeting the
minimum site size standards, consist of a combination of parcels whose total
net acreage meets the minimum site size criteria; provided, that the design for
the entire site is integrated and unified.
      3.   In addition to the minimum development standards established in
table 6.B of this section, developments within an Industrial District shall
comply with the provisions of subsection (B) of this section, chapter 13,
"Performance Standards", of this title, other applicable City regulations and
ordinances, and the City General Plan.
      4.   Flag lot street frontage shall be no less than fifty feet (50').
Access to the large portion of any flag lot shall be designed and constructed
to City standards and shall be subject to approval by the City Engineer.
      5.   In the Industrial District, structures may exceed the maximum
permitted height subject to securing an approved conditional use permit.
   TABLE 6.B
   INDUSTRIAL SITE DEVELOPMENT
   MINIMUM STANDARDS
Requirement I
Requirement                                                  I
Minimum parcel size                                          10,800 square feet
Minimum parcel size of flag lots                             15,000 square feet
Minimum site width                                           80 feet
Minimum site depth                                           120 feet
Minimum front, interior side, street side and rear building  0 feet
setback
Maximum building height may exceed with approved conditional 50 feet
use permit
Maximum lot coverage                                         60 percent
 
   (B)   Special Site Development Standards:
      1.   All uses in the Industrial Zone District shall comply with the
provisions of section
6-11-30, "Screening Requirements", of this title.
      2.   Where off street parking areas in the Industrial Zone District are
situated along a visual corridor, as may be defined in a precise plan adopted
by the City Council, screening, such as walls, berms, landscaping, or a
combination thereof, no less than two feet (2') in height, shall be erected
between the street right-of-way and the parking area.
      3.   Parking for each proposed use within the Industrial Zone District
shall comply with the provisions of chapter 14, "Parking Regulations", of this
title.
      4.   When abutting a residentially zoned district, the front, side and
rear yard setbacks of that residentially zoned district shall apply to the
development abutting that residentially zoned district.
   (C)   Vacant Building Registration: Vacant or abandoned nonresidential
buildings are subject to the vacant building registration requirements per
section
6-11-40 of this title and title III, chapter 4.3 of this Code.
   (D)   Fences And Walls: Walls for the purpose of visual screening and sound
attenuation shall be required between nonresidential uses and any adjacent
residential use or residentially zoned property, or where more sensitive
adjacent land uses exist. Maximum height shall be six feet (6'), except within
the required front yard or street side yard setback area where the maximum
height shall be forty inches (40"). Fences and walls shall be in compliance
with section
6-11-9 of this title. (Ord. 805-14, 7-1-2014)
CHAPTER 7
AGRICULTURAL ZONE DISTRICT
SECTION:
6-7-1: Purpose And Intent
6-7-2: Agricultural (A) Zone District
6-7-3: Use Regulations
6-7-4: Site Development Standards
6-7-5: Temporary Fruit Stands
6-7-6: Right To Farm Provisions
6-7-1: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
   (A)   The General Plan outlines the goals, objectives and policies
establishing the character and location of agricultural uses within the City.
It is the purpose of this chapter to provide regulations implementing those
goals, objectives and policies to assure the preservation of existing
agricultural uses as an important component of the local economy.
   (B)   It is further the intent of this chapter to:
      1.   Protect and promote the continuation of farming in areas with prime
soils and soils of Statewide importance where farming is a viable component of
the local economy, and promote the continuation of farming in areas where it is
already established;
      2.   Separate agricultural land use and activities from incompatible
residential and commercial development, and public facilities; and
      3.   Prevent the encroachment of incompatible uses into agricultural
lands and the premature conversion of such lands to nonagricultural uses. (Ord.
805-14, 7-1-2014)
6-7-2: AGRICULTURAL (A) ZONE DISTRICT:
The primary purpose of the Agricultural (A) Zone District is to designate areas
suitable for agricultural uses, to prevent the encroachment of incompatible
uses into agricultural lands, and to prevent the premature conversion of such
lands to nonagricultural uses. (Ord. 805-14, 7-1-2014)
6-7-3: USE REGULATIONS:
Identified on table 7.A of this section are those land uses or activities that
may be permitted within the Agricultural Zone District, subject to the
provisions of this title and applicable General Plan policies. Table 7.A of
this section also indicates the development procedure and the approval type by
which each listed land use or activity may be permitted in an Agricultural Zone
District.
TABLE 7.A
USES PERMITTED WITHIN THE AGRICULTURAL DISTRICT
To view Table 7.A Uses Permitted Within The Agricultural District, click
HERE
Legend:
P = Permitted subject to consistency assessment
C = Permitted subject to approval of a conditional use permit application
X = Not permitted in this district
Agriculture Uses A
Agriculture Uses                                                              A
Agricultural:                                                                  
Agricultural chemical storage and repackaging                                 C
Agricultural services, when incidental and secondary to the primary use of    P
the premises for agriculture
Agricultural trucking facilities                                              C
Alcohol distillery                                                            C
Animal products processing, including meat packing, canning and shipping when
the livestock is produced or grown by the owner of the processing facility on C
the premises or on land leased, rented or owned by the owner of the
processing facility and within a reasonable distance of the facility
Beef cattle or livestock grazing                                              P
Beekeeping                                                                    P
Berry crops                                                                   P
Biomass energy conversion                                                     C
Birds, including show or racing pigeons and other small fowl                  P
Brewery                                                                       C
Cannabis cultivation, indoor (licenses for medical or adult-use, specialty    X
cottage, specialty, small, medium, nurseries, and processors)
Cannabis cultivation, outdoor (licenses for medical or adult-use, specialty   X
cottage, specialty, small, medium, nurseries, and processors)
Cannabis distributors and distributor transport only (license types 11 and    X
13)
Cannabis manufacturer (medical or adult-use, license type 6, type 7, type N-  X
infusions, and type P-packaging and labeling only)
Cannabis microbusiness (license type 12)                                      X
Cannabis testing laboratory (license type 8)                                  X
Christmas trees                                                               P
Cold storage facility for agricultural products                               P
Contract harvesting                                                           P
Cotton gin                                                                    C
Creamery                                                                      C
Dairy                                                                         X
Dairy stock grazing                                                           X
Farm machinery and equipment repair                                           P
Field crops, dryland                                                          P
Field crops, irrigated                                                        P
Fish and frog farms                                                           P
Flour mill                                                                    C
Flowers and horticulture specialties, wholesale only                          P
Fruit, vegetable and plant products processing, including freezing, packing,  P
preserving and shipping
Glucose processing                                                            C
Grain elevator or storage                                                     C
Hogs, hog farm or ranch                                                       X
Honey extraction                                                              P
Horses, donkeys, llamas or mules                                              P
Livestock feedlot or stock auction or sales yard for hoofed animals           X
Oil or mineral extraction                                                     P
Poultry, including hatching, breeding, butchering, processing or shipping of  X
chickens, ostriches, emus, turkeys or other fowl or poultry, including eggs
Rabbits or fur bearing animals                                                P
Row crops                                                                     P
Saw or planing mill                                                           C
Sheep or goats farm                                                           X
Tasting room, when accessory to an existing winery or brewery                 P
Winery or brewery                                                             C
Wool pulling and scouring                                                     C
Commercial:                                                                    
Cannabis event organizers and temporary cannabis events (license type 14)     X
Cannabis retail sales/dispensary (license type 10)                            X
Cannabis retail sales, non-storefront (license type 9)                        X
Fireworks stand, subject to the provisions of section                         P
6-12-17 of this title
Fruit stand, permanent                                                        P
Fruit stand, temporary, pursuant to this chapter                              P
Medical marijuana dispensaries                                                X
Veterinary, large animal                                                      P
Educational institutions and schools:                                          
College or university                                                         C
Elementary school                                                             C
Junior high school                                                            C
Preschool                                                                     C
Senior high school                                                            C
Institutional:                                                                 
Cemetery, mausoleum, columbarium, mortuary or crematory                       C
Charitable or public service organization                                     C
Church                                                                        C
Fire or police station                                                        P
Government office or building                                                 P
Public agency or public utility buildings and facilities                      P
Rehabilitation facilities                                                     C
Water treatment plant, unless project otherwise entails a public hearing,     C
then permitted
Zoo                                                                           C
Miscellaneous:                                                                 
Accessory structures and uses located on the same site as a conditionally     C
permitted use
Accessory structures and uses located on the same site as a permitted use     P
Daycare home, large family, pursuant to this title                            C
Daycare home, small family                                                    P
Drainage sump                                                                 C
Drainage sump, if proposed and approved as part of a tentative subdivision or P
tentative parcel map
Flood control facilities                                                      P
Hunting or fishing club, not involving structures                             C
Water storage or groundwater recharge facilities                              P
Wild animal keeping                                                           C
Wildlife or nature preserve (private)                                         C
Recreation, entertainment and tourist facilities:                              
Equestrian establishment                                                      C
Golf course/driving range                                                     C
Guest ranch, when accessory to a commercial ranching operation                C
Lakes, private, for recreational skiing or boating                            C
Park or playground, unless project requires a public hearing, then permitted  C
Racetrack or test track, automobile, bicycle, horse or motorcycle             C
Recreational vehicle park                                                     C
Shooting range or gun club, simulated war games, or similar activities,       C
outdoor only
Trade fairs and exhibitions, temporary (14 day minimum), excluding flea
markets and swap meets (subject to provision of section                       P
6-2-11 of this title)
Residential:                                                                   
Accessory dwelling unit (per section                                          P
6-12-23 of this title)
Emergency shelters                                                            X
Farm labor housing for contract labor                                         C
Farm labor housing for on site employees                                      C
Residential accessory structures                                              P
Residential facilities                                                        C
Single-family dwelling, occupied by the owner or full time on site employee   P
Supportive housing                                                            P
Transitional housing                                                          P
Resource extraction and energy development:                                    
Coal fired cogeneration facility or stream generators, primarily intended for C
production of oil or gas
Cogeneration facility or steam generators, primarily intended for steam       C
production used for production of oil or gas, excluding coal fired
Concrete or asphalt batch plant, temporary                                    C
Electrical power generating plant                                             C
Explosives storage, permanent                                                 C
Explosives storage, temporary                                                 C
Mineral exploration                                                           P
Mining and mineral extraction pursuant to the provisions of this title        P
Oil or gas exploration and production pursuant to the provisions of this      P
title
Rock, gravel, sand or soils, crushing, processing or distribution, when       C
accessory to an approved mining operation
Solar energy electrical generators with a rated capacity of no greater than 5 P
kilowatts for on site consumption of the electricity
Solar energy for electrical generators, commercial or domestic, exceeding 5   C
kilowatts capacity
Wind driven electrical generators for consumption of electricity              C
Transportation facilities:                                                     
Airport, private (if not within an approved airport plan)                     C
Airport, public (if not within an approved airport plan)                      C
Heliport (if not within an approved airport plan)                             C
Rail, rail freight classification or switching yard, and rail spurs           C
Utility and communication facilities:                                          
Radio, television or commercial communications transmitter, receiver or       P
translator, except as specified in this title
Transmission lines and supporting towers, poles, microwave towers and
underground facilities for gas, water, electricity, telephone or telegraph
service owned and operated by a public utility company or other company under C
the jurisdiction of the California Public Utilities Commission pursuant to
this title
Utility substation                                                            P
Waste facilities:                                                              
Hazardous waste disposal facility, unless project otherwise entails a public  C
hearing, then permitted
Nonhazardous oil production and/or oily waste disposal facility, unless       C
project otherwise entails a public hearing, then permitted
Sanitary landfill, unless project otherwise entails a public hearing, then    C
permitted
Septage disposal site, unless project otherwise entails a public hearing,     C
then permitted
Sewage sludge composting, unless project otherwise entails a public hearing,  C
then permitted
Sewage treatment plant, unless project otherwise entails a public hearing,    C
then permitted
Transfer station, large and small volume, unless project otherwise entails a  C
public hearing, then permitted
Waste to energy facility, unless project otherwise entails a public hearing,  C
then permitted
Other uses similar to, and no more objectionable than, the uses identified
above, shall be reviewed per the process required by the similar use, as
determined by the Planning Commission
 
(Ord. 831-18, 3-20-2018)
6-7-4: SITE DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS:
   (A)   Lot Area Requirements:
      1.   Except when conducted as an accessory to a residential use of a
nonfarm parcel, agricultural uses shall require a minimum area of twenty (20)
acres, and no farm parcel shall be subdivided from a parent tract unless it
shall meet the minimum area requirement for agricultural uses.
      2.   Farm parcels under Williamson Act contract and designated as
agricultural on the General Plan shall be a minimum of eighty (80) acres in
size.
      3.   Parcels that are conveyed to or from a governmental agency, public
entity, community or mutual water company, or public utility for public
purposes, shall be exempt from the minimum lot area requirements of this
chapter.
      4.   Minimum lot area requirements for uses established as an accessory
use to a primary agricultural use in compliance with conditions of approval of
a conditional use permit shall be exempt from minimum lot area requirements.
   (B)   Site Development Minimum Standards:
      1.   In addition to the minimum standards established in table 7.B of
this section, development within the Agricultural Zone District shall also
comply with the special requirements contained in this chapter, chapter 13,
"Performance Standards", of this title, other applicable City standards,
regulations, ordinances, and the City General Plan.
TABLE 7.B
AGRICULTURAL SITE DEVELOPMENT MINIMUM STANDARDS
Requirement
Requirement
Minimum site area                                                    20 acres
Minimum site width                                                   400 feet
Minimum site depth                                                   800 feet
Front building setback                                               50 feet
Side street building setback area, street sides                      50 feet
Rear yard setback                                                    50 feet
Maximum floor area ratio                                             0.10 foot
Maximum building height (may exceed with an approved conditional use 50 feet
permit)
 
Note: Structures such as silos, windmills and communication antennas and towers
may exceed height limit, subject to approval by the Planning Commission.
      2.   No new slaughter area, area for the storage or processing of manure,
garbage or spent mushroom compost, or structures for the cultivation of
mushrooms shall be permitted. The raising of livestock shall not be permitted
within two hundred feet (200') of any existing residence located on an adjacent
property.
      3.   There shall be a minimum of ten feet (10') between a residential
building and a nonresidential structure, except that animals, pens, coops,
stables, barns, corrals and other structures for housing animals permitted in
the Agricultural District shall be at least one hundred feet (100') away from
any residential building.
      4.   There shall be a minimum of twenty feet (20') between an on site
residential building and an aviary.
   (C)   Vacant Building Registration: Vacant or abandoned residential and
nonresidential buildings are subject to the vacant building registration
requirements per section
6-11-40 of this title and title III, chapter 4.3 of this Code.
   (D)   Fences And Walls: Walls for the purpose of visual screening and sound
attenuation shall be required between nonresidential uses and any adjacent
residential use or residentially zoned property, or where more sensitive
adjacent land uses exist. Maximum height shall be six feet (6'), except within
the required front yard or street side yard setback area where the maximum
height shall be forty inches (40"). Fences and walls shall be in compliance
with section
6-11-9 of this title. (Ord. 805-14, 7-1-2014)
6-7-5: TEMPORARY FRUIT STANDS:
   (A)   Standards: Temporary fruit stands for the sale of agricultural,
horticultural or farming products permitted pursuant to this title shall comply
with the following standards:
      1.   The floor area of the fruit stand shall not exceed four hundred
(400) square feet.
      2.   The fruit stand shall not be located closer than sixty five feet
(65') from any public road, street or highway right-of-way.
   (B)   Stand; Parking Areas: The stand shall be erected in such a manner that
it can be readily removed by means of skids or other device.
      1.   The owner shall remove the stand at his/her own expense when the
stand is not in use for a period of sixty (60) days.
      2.   Customer parking areas shall be treated with a dust binder in a
manner to continuously prevent fugitive dust as approved by the Public Works
Director. (Ord. 805-14, 7-1-2014)
6-7-6: RIGHT TO FARM PROVISIONS:
All uses within the Agricultural Zone District shall be required to conform to
the provisions of section
6-11-28 of this title regarding the protection of farming practices from a
nuisance. (Ord. 805-14, 7-1-2014)
CHAPTER 8
NATURAL RESOURCES ZONE DISTRICT
SECTION:
6-8-1: Purpose And Intent
6-8-2: Natural Resources (NR) Zone District
6-8-3: Use Regulations
6-8-4: Site Development Standards
6-8-1: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
The purpose of this zone is to designate those areas that have proven or
potential petroleum, mineral and agricultural resources, and provide
appropriate land use regulations. (Ord. 805-14, 7-1-2014)
6-8-2: NATURAL RESOURCES (NR) ZONE DISTRICT:
The primary purpose of the natural resources (NR) zone district is to designate
areas suitable for natural resource uses, to prevent the encroachment of
incompatible uses into natural resource lands, and to prevent the premature
conversion of such lands to nonresource uses. The following regulations shall
apply in the natural resources zone, unless otherwise provided in this title.
(Ord. 805-14, 7-1-2014)
6-8-3: USE REGULATIONS:
Identified on table 8.A of this section are those land uses or activities that
may be permitted within the natural resources zone district, subject to the
provisions of this title and applicable general plan policies. Table 8.A of
this section also indicates the procedure and the approval type by which each
listed land use or activity may be permitted in a natural resources zone
district. (Ord. 805-14, 7-1-2014)
TABLE 8.A
USES PERMITTED WITHIN NATURAL RESOURCES DISTRICT
To view Table 8.A Uses Permitted Within Natural Resources District, click HERE
Legend:
P = Permitted subject to consistency assessment
C = Permitted subject to approval of a conditional use permit application
X = Not permitted in this district
Natural Resource Uses NR
Natural Resource Uses                                                        NR
Natural resource uses:                                                        
Agricultural uses, subject to provisions of chapter 7 of this title          P
Emergency shelters                                                           X
Kennels (both commercial and noncommercial)                                  P
Mineral exploration and production, subject to chapter 9 of this title       P
Oil and gas exploration and production, subject to the provisions of chapter P
10 of this title
Single-family dwelling                                                       C
Steam and cogeneration facilities used for oil and gas production            P
Supportive housing                                                           C
Transitional housing                                                         C
Public/quasi-public uses:                                                     
Cogeneration plants, electrical and solar generating plants                  C
Drainage sump, if approved as part of a subdivision of land, then permitted  C
Flood control facilities                                                     C
Public parks and recreational facilities                                     C
Public utility and public service substations, reservoirs, pumping plants,
transmission lines and appurtenant structures, and similar public            C
installations
Water storage or groundwater recharge facilities                             P
Water treatment plant, unless otherwise entails a public hearing, then       C
permitted
Wildlife or nature preserve, private, otherwise permitted                    C
Other uses similar to, and no more objectionable than, uses identified in this
table shall be reviewed per the process required by the similar use as
determined by the city council.
 
(Ord. 805-14, 7-1-2014; amd. Ord. 812-15, 7-7-2015)
6-8-4: SITE DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS:
   (A)   General Requirements: In addition to the minimum standards established
in table 8.B of this section, development within the natural resources zone
district shall also comply with the special requirements contained in this
chapter, chapter 13, "Performance Standards", of this title, other applicable
city standards, ordinances, resolutions and regulations, and the city general
plan.
TABLE 8.B
NATURAL RESOURCE SITE DEVELOPMENT MINIMUM STANDARDS
Requirement
Requirement
Minimum site area, may be amended to larger area per general plan     5 acres
Minimum site width                                                    200 feet
Minimum frontage (cul-de-sac or knuckle street)                       50 feet
Minimum site depth                                                    400 feet
Front yard setback                                                    50 feet
Side yard setback                                                     50 feet
Rear yard setback                                                     50 feet
Maximum floor area ratio                                              0.10 foot
Maximum building height, may be exceeded with an approved conditional 50 feet
use permit
 
   (B)   Vacant Building Registration: Vacant or abandoned residential and
nonresidential buildings are subject to the vacant building registration
requirements per section
6-11-40 of this title and title III, chapter 4.3 of this code.
   (C)   Fences And Walls: Walls for the purpose of visual screening and sound
attenuation shall be required between nonresidential uses and any adjacent
residential use or residentially zoned property, or where more sensitive
adjacent land uses exist. Maximum height shall be six feet (6'), except within
the required front yard or street side yard setback area where the maximum
height shall be forty inches (40"). Fences and walls shall be in compliance
with section
6-11-9 of this title. (Ord. 805-14, 7-1-2014)
CHAPTER 9
SURFACE MINING AND LAND RECLAMATION REGULATIONS
SECTION:
6-9-1: Purpose And Intent
6-9-2: Incorporation Of SMARA And State Regulations
6-9-3: Applicability
6-9-4: Contents Of Applications For Surface Mining Operations And Reclamation
Plans
6-9-5: Processing
6-9-6: Performance Standards For Reclamation Plans
6-9-7: Phasing Of Reclamation
6-9-8: Findings For Approval
6-9-9: Financial Assurances For Reclamation Plans
6-9-10: Inspections
6-9-11: Interim Management Plans
6-9-12: Periodic Review
6-9-13: Time Limit For Commencement Of Use Permits For Surface Mining
Operations
6-9-1: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
The city recognizes that extraction of minerals is essential to the continued
economic well being and needs of society and that the reclamation of mined
lands is necessary to prevent or minimize adverse effects on the environment
and to protect health and safety. The city also recognizes that surface mining
takes place in diverse areas where the geologic, topographic, biological and
social conditions are significantly different and those reclamations operations
and the specifications may vary accordingly. The purpose and intent of this
chapter is to regulate surface mining operations as authorized by California's
surface mining and reclamation act of 1975, Public Resources Code section 2710
et seq., as amended, hereinafter referred to as "SMARA", and Public Resources
Code section 2207, and the California Code Of Regulations adopted pursuant
thereto, 14 California Code Of Regulations section 3500 et seq., to ensure
that:
   (A)   Adverse environmental and other effects of surface mining operations
will be prevented or minimized and reclamation of mined lands will provide for
the beneficial, sustainable long term productive use of the mined and reclaimed
lands; and
   (B)   The production and conservation of minerals will be encouraged while
eliminating hazards to public health and safety and avoiding or minimizing
adverse effects on the environment, including, but not limited to, geologic
subsidence, air pollution, water quality degradation, damage to biological
resources, flooding, erosion, degradation of scenic quality and noise
pollution. (Ord. 768-08, 8-19-2008)
6-9-2: INCORPORATION OF SMARA AND STATE REGULATIONS:
The provisions of the California surface mining and reclamation act of 1975,
Public Resources Code section 2710 et seq., Public Resources Code section 2207,
and the California Code Of Regulations implementing the act, 14 California Code
Of Regulations section 3500 et seq., and 14 California Code Of Regulations,
article 9, chapter 8, section 3700 et seq., "reclamation standards",
hereinafter also referred to as the "state regulations", as those provisions
may be amended from time to time, are made a part of this chapter by reference
with the same force and effect as if the provisions therein were specifically
and fully set out herein, excepting that when the provisions of this chapter
are more restrictive than conflicting state provisions, this chapter shall
prevail. (Ord. 768-08, 8-19-2008)
6-9-3: APPLICABILITY:
   (A)   Reclamation Plan: Unless exempted by the provisions of this chapter,
any person who proposes to engage in surface mining, or who proposes to permit
another person to engage in surface mining on his property shall, prior to the
commencement of said operations, as defined in this section, first file and
obtain approval from the city a reclamation plan in accordance with the
provisions set forth in this chapter, as further provided in Public Resources
Code section 2772 et seq., 14 California Code Of Regulations, article 9,
chapter 8, section 3700 et seq., and financial assurances for reclamation.
   (B)   Requirements For Reclamation Plans: A reclamation plan shall be
required for all surface mining operations in all zone districts in which
surface mining is allowed, as well as for those portions of existing surface
mining operations which claim to have vested rights pursuant to Public
Resources Code section 2776, unless otherwise exempted from the requirements of
SMARA or as set forth herein, Public Resources Code section 2770 et seq.
   (C)   Exemptions: This chapter shall not apply to the following activities:
      1.   Excavations or grading conducted for farming, on site construction,
or for the purpose of restoring land following a flood or natural disaster,
Public Resources Code section 2714(a).
      2.   Prospecting for, or the extraction of, minerals for commercial
purposes and the removal of overburden in total amounts of less than one
thousand (1,000) cubic yards in any one location of one acre or less, Public
Resources Code section 2714(b).
      3.   Surface mining operations that are required by federal law in order
to protect a mining claim, if such operations are conducted solely for that
purpose (SMARA §2714(c)).
      4.   Such other surface mining operations which the state mining and
geology board determines to be of an infrequent nature and which involve only
minor surface disturbances, Public Resources Code section 2714(d).
      5.   Emergency excavations or grading conducted by the department of
water resources or the reclamation board for the purpose of averting,
alleviating, repairing or restoring damage to property due to imminent or
recent floods, disasters or other emergencies, Public Resources Code section
2714(f).
      6.   Surface mining operations conducted on lands owned or leased, or
upon which easements or rights of way have been obtained by the department of
water resources for the purpose of state water resources development system or
flood control, and surface mining operations on lands owned or leased, or upon
which easements or rights of way have been obtained, by the reclamation board
for the purpose of flood control, if the department of water resources adopts,
after submission to and consultation with, the department of conservation, a
reclamation plan for lands affected by these activities, and those lands are
reclaimed in conformance with the standards specified in regulations of the
board adopted pursuant to this chapter, Public Resources Code section 2714(g)
(1).
Nothing in this section shall require the department of water resources or the
reclamation board to obtain a permit or secure approval of a reclamation plan
from the city in order to conduct surface mining operations specified in
subsection (A) of this section. Nothing in this section shall preclude the
bringing of an enforcement action pursuant to Public Resources Code section
2774.1 if it is determined that a surface mine operator acting under contract
with the department of water resources or the reclamation board on lands other
than those owned or leased, or upon which easements or rights of way have been
obtained, by the department of water resources or the reclamation board, is
otherwise not in compliance with Public Resources Code section 2710 et seq.,
Public Resources Code section 2714(g)(2).
An exemption under this chapter does not automatically exempt a project or
activity from the application of other regulations, ordinances or policies of
the city, including, but not limited to, application of the California
environmental quality act, Public Resources Code section 21000 et seq.,
requirement of site approvals or other permits, the payment of development
impact fees, or the imposition of other dedications and exactions as may be
permitted under the law. (Ord. 768-08, 8-19-2008)
6-9-4: CONTENTS OF APPLICATIONS FOR SURFACE MINING OPERATIONS AND RECLAMATION
PLANS:
   (A)   Application Form: Applications for a reclamation plan for surface
mining or land reclamation projects shall be made on forms provided by the
planning department. Said application shall be filed in accord with this
chapter and procedures established by the planning director.
   (B)   Number, Information Required: As many copies of a reclamation plan
application as may be required shall be submitted in conjunction with all
applications for surface mining operations. The reclamation plan application
shall include information concerning the mining operation that is required for
processing the reclamation plan.
   (C)   Environmental Review Forms: Applications shall include all required
environmental review forms and information prescribed by the planning director.
   (D)   Planning Commission Consideration: Upon completion of the
environmental review procedures and filing of all documents required by the
planning director, consideration of an application for the proposed or existing
surface mine shall be completed prior to public hearing before the planning
commission, pursuant to Public Resources Code section 2774. (Ord. 768-08, 8-19-
2008)
6-9-5: PROCESSING:
   (A)   Notification: Within thirty (30) days acceptance of an application for
surface mining operations and/or a reclamation plan as complete, the planning
director shall notify the director of the California department of conservation
of the filing of the application, Public Resources Code section 2774(e).
Whenever mining operations are proposed in the 100-year floodplain of any
stream, as shown in zone A of the flood insurance rate maps issued by the
federal emergency management agency, and within one mile, upstream or
downstream, of any state highway bridge, the planning director shall also
notify the state department of transportation that the application has been
received, Public Resources Code section 2770.5.
   (B)   Environmental Review: The planning director shall process the
application through environmental review pursuant to the California
environmental quality act (CEQA), Public Resources Code section 21000 et seq.,
and the city's guidelines implementing CEQA.
   (C)   Staff Report: Subsequent to the appropriate environmental review, the
planning director shall prepare a staff report with recommendations for
consideration by the planning commission.
   (D)   Public Hearing: The planning commission shall hold at least one
noticed public hearing, in accordance with the provisions of section
6-2-15, "Public Hearing And Notification Procedures", of this title, on the
application for the reclamation plan.
   (E)   Financial Assurances:
      1.   Prior to final approval of a reclamation plan, financial assurances
(as provided in this chapter), or any amendments to the reclamation plan or
existing financial assurances, the planning commission shall certify to the
director of the California department of conservation that the reclamation plan
and/or financial assurance complies with the applicable requirements of the
state regulation and submit the plan, assurances or amendments to the director
of the California department of conservation for review, Public Resources Code
section 2774(c). The planning commission may conceptually approve the
reclamation plan and financial assurance before submittal to the director of
the California department of conservation. However, the planning commission may
defer action on the application until taking the final action on the
reclamation plan and financial assurance. If necessary to comply with permit
processing deadlines, the planning commission may conditionally approve the
reclamation plan application with the condition that the planning director
shall not issue an approval for the mining operation until financial assurances
have been reviewed by the director of the California department of conservation
and final action has been taken on the reclamation plan and financial
assurances.
      2.   The director of the California department of conservation shall have
forty five (45) days to prepare written comments on the reclamation plan and
financial assurance, if the director of the California department of
conservation so chooses, Public Resources Code section 2774(d). The planning
commission shall evaluate written comments received from the director of the
California department of conservation during the forty five (45) day comment
period. Staff shall prepare a written response describing the disposition of
the major issues raised by the state for the planning commission's approval. In
particular, when the planning commission's position is at variance with the
recommendations and objections raised in the California conservation director's
comments, the written response shall address, in detail, why specific comments
and suggestions were not accepted, Public Resources Code section 2774(d).
Copies of any written comments received and responses prepared by the planning
commission shall be promptly forwarded to the operator/applicant.
   (F)   Decision Of Planning Commission: The planning commission shall then
take action to approve, conditionally approve, or deny the reclamation plan
pursuant to Public Resources Code section 2774, and to approve the financial
assurances pursuant to Public Resources Code section 2770(d).
   (G)   Copies To Director: The planning director shall forward a copy of each
approval for mining operations and/or approved reclamation plan, and a copy of
the financial assurances to the director of the California department of
conservation. By July 1 of each year, the planning director shall submit to the
director of the California department of conservation for each active or idle
mining operation a copy of the approval or amendments to the reclamation plan,
as applicable, or a statement that there have been no changes during the
previous year, Public Resources Code section 2774(e).
   (H)   Annual Reports: Surface mining operators shall forward an annual
status report to the director of the California department of conservation and
the planning director on a date established by the director of the California
department of conservation upon forms furnished by the state mining and geology
board, Public Resources Code section 2207(a) - (g). (Ord. 768-08, 8-19-2008)
6-9-6: PERFORMANCE STANDARDS FOR RECLAMATION PLANS:
   (A)   All new or revised reclamation plans shall conform to minimum
statewide performance standards required pursuant to Public Resources Code
section 2773(b), 14 California Code Of Regulations, article 9, chapter 8,
section 3700 et seq., as adopted by the state mining and geology board,
including, but not limited to, wildlife habitat, backfilling, revegetation,
drainage, agricultural land reclamation, equipment removal, stream protection,
topsoil salvage and waste management.
   (B)   The city may impose additional performance standards development
either in review of individual projects, as warranted, or through the
formulation and adoption of citywide performance standards. (Ord. 768-08, 8-19-
2008)
6-9-7: PHASING OF RECLAMATION:
Reclamation activities shall be phased with respect to the mining operation and
shall be initiated at the earliest possible time on those portions of the mined
lands that will not be subject to further disturbance, Public Resources Code
section 2772(f) (see also section
6-9-11 of this chapter, interim management plans for idle mining operations).
Interim reclamation may also be required for mined lands that have been
disturbed and that may be disturbed again in future operations. Reclamation may
be done on an annual basis, in stages compatible with continuing operations, or
on completion of all excavation, removal or fill, reclamation plan and shall
include: a) the beginning and expected ending dates for each phase; b) all
reclamation activities required; c) criteria for measuring completion of
specific reclamation activities; and d) estimated costs as provided under
financial assurance, section
6-9-9 of this chapter. (Ord. 768-08, 8-19-2008)
6-9-8: FINDINGS FOR APPROVAL:
For approval of reclamation plans, the following findings shall be required:
   (A)   The reclamation plan complies with Public Resources Code sections
2772, 2773 and 2773.1 and any other applicable provisions;
   (B)   The reclamation plan complies with applicable requirements of the
state regulations, 14 California Code Of Regulations sections 3500 et seq., and
3700 et seq.;
   (C)   The reclamation plan and potential use of reclaimed land pursuant to
the plan are consistent with this chapter, the city general plan, and any
applicable resource plan or element;
   (D)   The reclamation plan has been reviewed pursuant to the California
environmental quality act ("CEQA"), Public Resources Code section 21000 et
seq., and the city environmental review guidelines, and all significant adverse
impacts from reclamation of the surface mining operations are mitigated to the
maximum extent feasible;
   (E)   The land and/or resources such as water bodies to be reclaimed will be
restored to a condition that is as compatible with and blends in with the
surrounding natural environmental, topography and other resources, or that
suitable off site development will compensate for related disturbances to
resource values;
   (F)   The reclamation plan will restore the mined lands to a usable
condition which is readily adaptable for alternative land uses consistent with
the general plan and applicable resource plan; and
   (G)   A written response to the director of the California department of
conservation has been prepared, describing the disposition of major issues
raised by the director of the California department of conservation. Where the
city's position is at variance with the recommendations and objections raised
by the director of the California department of conservation, said response
shall address, in detail, why specific comments and suggestions were not
accepted, Public Resources Code section 2772(d). (Ord. 768-08, 8-19-2008)
6-9-9: FINANCIAL ASSURANCES FOR RECLAMATION PLANS:
   (A)   Required: In order to ensure that reclamation will proceed in
accordance with the approved reclamation plan, the city shall require, as a
condition of approval, security which will be released upon satisfactory
performance. The applicant may post security in an acceptable form of a surety
bond, trust fund, irrevocable letter of credit from an accredited financial
institution, trust funds or other method acceptable to the city and the mining
and geology board (the "board") as specified in statewide regulations adopted
by the board, and which the city reasonably determines are adequate to perform
reclamation in accordance with the surface mining operations approved
reclamation plan. Financial assurances shall be made payable to the city and
the department of conservation, Public Resources Code section 2773.1(a)(4).
   (B)   Compliance: Financial assurances will be required to ensure compliance
with elements of the reclamation plan, including, but not limited to,
revegetation and landscaping requirements; restoration of aquatic or wildlife
habitat; restoration of water bodies and water quality; slope stability and
erosion and drainage control; disposal of hazardous materials; and other
mitigation measures. Financial assurances for such elements of the plan shall
be monitored by the planning director.
   (C)   Amount: The amount of the financial assurances shall be based upon the
estimated costs of reclamation for the years or phases stipulated in pursuant
to the approved reclamation plan, including any maintenance of reclaimed areas
as may be required, subject to adjustment for the actual amount required to
reclaim lands disturbed by mining activities since January 1, 1976, and new
lands to be disturbed by surface mining activities in the upcoming year, as
provided in subsection (F) of this section. Cost estimates shall be prepared by
a licensed engineer and/or other qualified professionals retained by the
operator and approved by the planning director. The estimated amount of the
financial assurance shall be based on an analysis of physical activities
necessary to implement the approved reclamation plan, the unit costs for each
of these activities, the number of units of each of these activities, and the
actual administrative costs. Financial assurances to ensure compliance with
revegetation, restoration of water bodies, restoration of aquatic or wildlife
habitat, and any other applicable element of the approved reclamation plan
shall be based upon cost estimates that include, but may not be limited to,
labor, equipment, materials, mobilization of equipment, administration and
reasonable profit by a commercial operator other than the permittee.
   (D)   Consideration Of Abandonment: In projecting the costs of financial
assurances, it shall be assumed without prejudice or insinuation that the
surface mining operation could be abandoned by the operator and, consequently,
the city or state may need to contract with a third party commercial company
for reclamation of the site.
   (E)   Duration: The financial assurances shall remain in effect for the
duration of the surface mining operation and any additional period until
reclamation is completed, including any maintenance required, Public Resources
Code section 2772.1(a)(2).
   (F)   Adjustments: The amount of financial assurances required of a surface
mining operation for any one year shall be adjusted annually to account for new
lands disturbed by surface mining operations, inflation and reclamation of
lands accomplished in accordance with the approved reclamation plan, Public
Resources Code section 2773.1(a)(3). The financial assurances shall include
estimates to cover reclamation for existing conditions and anticipated
activities during the upcoming year, excepting that the permittee may not claim
credit for reclamation scheduled for completion during the coming year.
   (G)   Revisions: Revisions to financial assurances shall be submitted to the
planning director each year prior to the anniversary date for approval of the
financial assurances. The financial assurance shall cover the cost of existing
disturbance and anticipated activities for the next calendar year, including
any required interim reclamation. If revisions to the financial assurances are
not required, the operator shall explain, in writing, why revisions are not
required. (Ord. 768-08, 8-19-2008)
6-9-10: INSPECTIONS:
The planning director shall arrange for inspection of a surface mining
operation within six (6) months of receipt of the annual report required in
Public Resources Code section 2207, to determine whether the surface mining
operation is in compliance with the approved department review permit and/or
reclamation plan, approved financial assurances, and the state regulations,
Public Resources Code section 2774(b). In no event shall less than one
inspection be conducted in any calendar year. Said inspection may be made by a
state registered geologist, state registered civil engineer, state licensed
landscape architect, state registered forester, who is experienced in land
reclamation and who has not been employed by the mining operation in any
capacity during the previous twelve (12) months, or other qualified
specialists, as selected by the planning director and as retained by the city
council. All inspections shall be conducted using a form approved and provided
by the state mining and geology board. The planning director shall notify the
director of the California department of conservation within thirty (30) days
of completion of the inspection that the said inspection has been conducted and
shall forward a copy of said inspection notice and any supporting documentation
to the mining operator. The operator shall be solely responsible for the
reasonable cost of such inspection. (Ord. 768-08, 8-19-2008)
6-9-11: INTERIM MANAGEMENT PLANS:
   (A)   Required: Within ninety (90) days of a surface mining operation
becoming "idle", as defined in this chapter, the operator shall submit to the
planning department a proposed interim management plan ("IMP"), Public
Resources Code section 2770(h). The proposed IMP shall fully comply with the
requirements of Public Resources Code section 2770(h) and shall provide
measures the operator will implement to maintain the site in compliance with
SMARA, including, but not limited to, all conditions of the department review
permit and/or reclamation plan. The proposed IMP shall be processed as an
amendment to the reclamation plan and shall not be considered a project for the
purposes of environmental review, Public Resources Code section 2770(h).
   (B)   Continuation Of Financial Assurances: Financial assurances for idle
operations shall be continued as addressed in the reclamation plan or otherwise
approved through the idle mine's IMP.
   (C)   Department Of Conservation Review: Upon receipt of a complete proposed
IMP, the planning director shall forward the IMP to the department of
conservation for review. The IMP shall be submitted to the department of
conservation at least forty five (45) days prior to approval by the planning
commission.
   (D)   Planning Commission Decision; Appeal: Within sixty (60) days of
receipt of the proposed IMP, or a longer period mutually agreed upon by the
planning director and the operator, the planning commission shall review and
approve or deny the IMP in accordance with the provisions of this chapter. The
operator shall have thirty (30) days or a longer period mutually agreed upon by
the operator and the planning director to submit a revised IMP. The planning
commission shall approve or deny the revised IMP within sixty (60) days of
receipt. If the planning commission denies the revised IMP, the operator may
appeal that action to the city council in accordance with the provisions of
section
6-2-19, "Appeals", of this title.
   (E)   Term Of Effect; Renewal: The IMP may remain in effect for a period not
to exceed five (5) years, at which time the planning commission may renew the
IMP for another period not to exceed five (5) years or require the surface
mining operator to commence reclamation in accordance with its approved
reclamation plan. (Ord. 768-08, 8-19-2008)
6-9-12: PERIODIC REVIEW:
As a condition of approval of the application for a reclamation plan, a
periodic review schedule shall be established to evaluate compliance with said
plan. (Ord. 768-08, 8-19-2008)
6-9-13: TIME LIMIT FOR COMMENCEMENT OF USE PERMITS FOR SURFACE MINING
OPERATIONS:
The time limit for commencing a surface mining operation that is permitted
pursuant to this chapter shall occur within one year from the date of approval
by the planning commission. (Ord. 768-08, 8-19-2008)
CHAPTER 10
OIL AND GAS PRODUCTION
SECTION:
6-10-1: Purpose And Intent
6-10-2: Unrestricted Drilling
6-10-3: Drilling By Ministerial Permit
6-10-4: Drilling By Conditional Use Permit
6-10-5: Development Standards And Conditions
6-10-6: Application Contents
6-10-7: Permit Revocation And Modification
6-10-1: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
The purpose of this chapter is to promote the economic recovery of oil, gas and
other hydrocarbon substances in a manner compatible with surrounding land uses
and to protect the public health and safety by establishing reasonable
limitations, safeguards and controls on exploration, drilling and production of
hydrocarbon resources. The procedures and standards contained in this chapter
shall apply to all exploration, drilling and production activities related to
oil, gas and other hydrocarbon substances carried out in the city. (Ord. 768-
08, 8-19-2008)
6-10-2: UNRESTRICTED DRILLING:
No review or permit shall be required for the drilling of any steam injection
well, steam drive well, service well, or any well intended for the exploration
and development or production of oil, gas and other hydrocarbon substances, or
for any related accessory equipment, structures or facility in the A
(agricultural) or NR (natural resources) zone districts; or in subsection
6-3-5(B) of this title, permitted uses in the PE zone district of the city;
provided, that:
   (A)   Code Compliance: All drilling installations and operations comply with
the requirements of state law and with applicable fire and safety ordinances
and regulations of the city.
   (B)   Distance To Residence: Drilling shall not be commenced within one
hundred feet (100') of any existing residence without the written consent of
the owner thereof.
   (C)   Signage: Signs shall be limited to directional, warning and
identification signs in connection with oil, gas or other hydrocarbon drilling
and development operations.
   (D)   Nonhazardous Disposal: Disposal of nonhazardous oil field liquid waste
and production water is considered an accessory facility only if the facility
complies with the following:
      1.   The nonhazardous oil field liquid waste or production water is
produced and disposed of within the same designated oil field; or
      2.   The nonhazardous oil field liquid waste or production water disposed
of outside the designated oil field of origin is produced by and disposed of
solely and only by the same individual, corporation or entity.
   (E)   Height Limits: Height limits shall be in accordance with section
6-11-12, "Height Limitations", of this title, except that no height limit shall
apply to derricks and other equipment used during the exploration and drilling
phase of development not in conflict with part 77 of the federal aviation
regulations of the federal aviation administration, department of
transportation, or any corresponding rules or regulations of the federal
aviation administration, as amended. (Ord. 768-08, 8-19-2008)
6-10-3: DRILLING BY MINISTERIAL PERMIT:
   (A)   Plot Plan Required: No well for use as an injection well and no well
for the exploration for or development or production of oil or gas or other
hydrocarbon substances may be drilled, and no related accessory equipment,
structure or facility may be installed in an industrial zone district until an
application for plot plan review has been submitted to and approved by the
planning director as consistent with the standards set out in this chapter. In
approving application for plot plan review, the planning director may waive any
standards set out in this chapter if it is determined that such waiver will not
result in material detriment to the public welfare or to the property of other
persons located in the vicinity.
   (B)   Nonhazardous Waste Disposal: Disposal of nonhazardous oil field liquid
waste or production water is considered an accessory facility only if the
facility complies with the following:
      1.   The nonhazardous oil field liquid waste or production water is
produced and disposed of within the same designated oil field; or
      2.   The nonhazardous oil field liquid waste or production water disposed
of outside the designated oil field of origin is produced by and disposed of
solely and only by the same individual, corporation or entity. (Ord. 768-08, 8-
19-2008)
6-10-4: DRILLING BY CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT:
   (A)   Districts Permitted; Permit Required: No well for use as an injection
well and no well for the exploration, development or production of oil, gas or
other hydrocarbon substances may be drilled, and no related accessory or
ancillary equipment, structure or facilities thereto, of oil, gas or other
hydrocarbon substances, may be drilled or installed in any zone district other
than the A, NR, I zone districts or in a DI zone district where the DI zone
district is combined with an application for a tentative tract map upon which
tentative tract map conditions of approval relating to the screening and
landscaping of the DI zone district is approved by the city council; or within
a PE overlay zone district in accordance with the provisions of section
6-10-2 of this chapter, until an application for a conditional use permit has
been submitted to and approved by the planning commission, consistent with the
provisions of section
6-2-5, "Conditional Use Permit", of this title. The planning commission may
waive any condition set forth in the development standards and conditions if it
determines that there will be no material detriment to the public welfare or
safety of persons and property located in the vicinity of such a well.
   (B)   Nonhazardous Waste Disposal: Disposal of nonhazardous oil field liquid
waste and production water is considered an accessory facility only if the
facility complies with the following:
      1.   The nonhazardous oil field liquid waste or production water is
produced and disposed of within the same designated oil field; or
      2.   The nonhazardous oil field liquid waste or production water disposed
of outside the designated oil field of origin is produced by and disposed of
solely and only by the same individual, corporation or entity.
   (C)   Term Of Permit: If a producing well or service well is not completed
upon land subject to said conditional use permit within twelve (12) months from
the date of issuance of the conditional use permit, or within any extended
period thereof, the conditional use permit shall expire and the premises shall
be restored as nearly as practicable to its original condition. No permit shall
expire while the permittee is continuously conducting drilling, redrilling,
completing or abandoning operations, or related operations, in a well on the
lands covered by such permit, where operations were commenced while said permit
was otherwise in effect. Continuous operations are operations not suspended
more than thirty (30) consecutive days. If, at the expiration of the twelve
(12) month period, the permittee has not completed the drilling program on the
lands covered by such permit, the planning commission may, upon a written
request of the permittee, extend the permit for the additional time requested
by the permittee for the completion of such drilling program. (Ord. 768-08, 8-
19-2008)
6-10-5: DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS AND CONDITIONS:
All wells drilled, pursuant to the provisions of this chapter, for the
exploration and development, production, storage, transmission and treatment,
and any accessory or ancillary equipment, structure or facilities thereto, of
oil, gas and other hydrocarbon substances, shall comply with the following
standards, unless otherwise provided in this chapter:
   (A)   Distance Restrictions: No oil or gas well shall be drilled within one
hundred feet (100') of the right of way of any public highway, proposed public
highway, official plan line or specific plan line, within one hundred feet
(100') of any building not necessary to the operation of the well, within one
hundred fifty feet (150') of any dwelling, assembly, institution or school, or
within fifty feet (50') of any building utilized for commercial purposes
constructed prior to the commencement of such drilling without the written
consent of the owner of such structure.
   (B)   Code Compliance: All drilling and production activities shall conform
to all applicable fire and safety regulations. Firefighting apparatus,
materials and equipment required by the city shall be maintained on the site at
all times during drilling and production operations.
   (C)   Signage: No signs, other than directional and warning signs and those
required for identification of a well, shall be constructed, erected,
maintained or placed on the premises, or any part thereof, except those
required by law or by ordinance to be displayed in connection with the drilling
or maintenance of a well.
   (D)   Sanitation: Sanitary toilet and/or washing facilities, if required by
the Kern County health department or other governmental agencies, shall be
installed and maintained in a clean and sanitary condition during drilling
operations, and at such other times as specified by these agencies.
   (E)   Technical Improvements: Proven technological improvements generally
accepted and used in drilling and production methods shall be employed as they
become available if they are capable of reducing nuisances or annoyances.
   (F)   Removal Of Equipment: All derricks, boilers and other drilling
equipment employed, pursuant to the provisions of this chapter, to drill any
well hole or to repair, clean out, deepen or redrill any completed well, shall
be removed within ninety (90) days after completion of production tests,
following completion of such drilling or after abandonment of any well, unless
such derricks, boilers and drilling equipment are to be used within a
reasonable time, as determined by the planning director, for the drilling of
another approved well on the premises.
   (G)   Earthen Sumps: Within ninety (90) days after any well has been placed
in production, or after its abandonment, earthen sumps used in drilling and/or
production (unless such sumps are to be used within a reasonable time as
determined by the planning director for the drilling of another well) shall be
filled and the drilling site restored as nearly as practicable to a uniform
grade. Temporary earthen sumps may be used for cleanout or remedial work on an
existing well or other production facility. However, these sumps shall be
filled and the site restored as nearly as practicable to a uniform grade within
ninety (90) days after the cleanout or other remedial work is completed. Such
restoration work shall comply with all applicable regulations of the California
division of oil, gas and geothermal resources.
   (H)   Derrick Type: Any derrick used for servicing operations shall be of
the portable type, unless proof is provided that the well is of such depth or
has some other characteristics such that a portable type derrick will not
properly service such well. In that instance, the planning director may approve
the use of a standard type of derrick.
   (I)   Screening Of Tanks: Whenever oil or gas is produced into and shipped
from tanks located on the premises, such tanks, whenever located within five
hundred feet (500') of any dwelling or commercial building, shall be surrounded
by shrubs or trees, planted and maintained to provide attractive landscaping or
be fenced in such a manner as to, insofar as practicable, screen such tanks
from public view. Such fencing shall comply with the requirements of the
California division of oil, gas and geothermal resources.
   (J)   Hours: Whenever a well is located within five hundred feet (500') from
an existing dwelling unit, except in case of emergency, no materials,
equipment, tools or pipe used for either drilling or production operations
shall be delivered to or removed from the drilling site, except between the
hours of eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. and eight o'clock (8:00) P.M., unless
otherwise required by the California division of oil, gas and geothermal
resources.
   (K)   Noise Control: Pumping wells shall be operated by electric motors or
muffled internal combustion engines.
   (L)   Height Of Pumping Units: The height of all pumping units shall not
exceed thirty five feet (35') and shall be properly maintained and kept in a
neat condition.
   (M)   Dust Control: All vehicle parking and maneuvering areas shall be
treated and maintained with oiled sand or a similar dust binding material.
   (N)   Fencing: After production begins and a pump is installed on the
wellhead, a fence at least six feet (6') in height shall be installed around
the pump site or drilling island for public safety. This fence shall be
constructed of chainlink with wood or metal slats or other screening materials
as may be required by the planning director. This fencing and screening
requirement shall apply only to those pump sites located within five hundred
feet (500') of any residentially zoned district. Such fencing shall comply with
the requirements of the California division of oil, gas and geothermal
resources.
   (O)   Compliance: All required federal, state, county and city rules and
regulations shall be complied with at all times, including, but not limited to,
the rules and regulations of the following agencies:
      1.   California department of oil, gas and geothermal resources;
      2.   Kern County fire department;
      3.   Kern County health department;
      4.   Regional water quality control board;
      5.   San Joaquin Valley unified air pollution control district. (Ord.
768-08, 8-19-2008)
6-10-6: APPLICATION CONTENTS:
An application for a conditional use permit shall include the following:
   (A)   Name and address of applicant.
   (B)   Name and address of the property owner.
   (C)   Assessor's parcel number.
   (D)   Legal description of the property.
   (E)   A plot plan or site development plan drawn at the scale specified by
the planning director, which includes the following information:
      1.   Topography and proposed grading;
      2.   Location of all proposed well holes and related accessory equipment,
structures and facilities to be installed and any abandoned wells if such are
known to exist;
      3.   Location of all existing dwellings and buildings used for other
purposes, located within three hundred feet (300') of the proposed well holes,
identification of the use of each structure, and distances between well holes
and existing buildings;
      4.   North arrow.
   (F)   Narrative description of the proposed development, including:
      1.   Acreage or square footage of the property;
      2.   Nature of hydrocarbon development activity;
      3.   Description of equipment to be used;
      4.   Distance to all existing buildings;
      5.   Phasing or development schedule.
   (G)   Additional information may be required, as part of an application for
a conditional use permit, as provided in section
6-2-5 of this title. (Ord. 768-08, 8-19-2008)
6-10-7: PERMIT REVOCATION AND MODIFICATION:
Any permit issued pursuant to this chapter may be revoked or modified pursuant
to section
6-2-20, "Revocation Of Permits", of this title. (Ord. 768-08, 8-19-2008)
CHAPTER 11
GENERAL DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
SECTION:
6-11-1: Purpose And Intent
6-11-2: Applicability
6-11-3: Accessory Structures
6-11-4: Circulation, Transportation And Trails Facilities
6-11-5: Condominiums And Condominium Conversions
6-11-6: Conversion Of Residential Structures To Nonresidential Use
6-11-7: Dedication Requirements
6-11-8: Development Density; Density Bonuses
6-11-9: Fences And Walls
6-11-10: Grading
6-11-11: Hazardous Materials Management
6-11-12: Height Limitations
6-11-13: Improvement Standards And Plans
6-11-14: Lighting
6-11-15: Minimum Building Sites
6-11-16: Manufactured Housing
6-11-17: Mobilehome Parks
6-11-18: Noise Hazards
6-11-19: Off Site Improvements
6-11-20: Park And Recreation Facilities
6-11-21: Parking Requirements
6-11-22: Permitted Outdoor Uses
6-11-23: Public Access To Open Space And Recreation Areas
6-11-24: Reasonable Accommodation
6-11-25: Reservation Of Lands For Public Facilities
6-11-26: Reflective Material
6-11-27: Relocated Structures
6-11-28: Right To Farm Provisions
6-11-29: Scenic Resources
6-11-30: Screening Requirements
6-11-31: Setback Requirements
6-11-32: Signs
6-11-33: Soil Reports
6-11-34: Solar Energy Design
6-11-35: Solid Waste Reuse And Recycling Regulations
6-11-36: Storage
6-11-37: Street Lighting And Tree Planting
6-11-38: Transportation Control Measures
6-11-39: Underground Utilities
6-11-40: Vacant Building Registration
6-11-41: Water Efficient Landscape Requirements
6-11-1: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
   (A)   It is the purpose and the intent of the general development standards
to ensure that new land uses and development will contribute to and be
compatible with existing and future development in the surrounding vicinity in
a manner which will enhance the quality of life for city residents, employers
and visitors. It is future intended that all proposed development is consistent
with the goals, policies, objectives and implementation programs of the general
plan.
   (B)   The standards contained in this chapter apply throughout the city in
each district and, as appropriate, for all land uses and development. Rather
than repeat these regulations and standards throughout this title, they have
been compiled in this chapter. (Ord. 805-14, 7-1-2014)
6-11-2: APPLICABILITY:
The provisions of this chapter shall apply to any land division or land use
application which authorizes, or would authorize by its approval, new
construction, new land uses, or the substantial modification of an existing
structure or land use. The provisions of this chapter shall apply in addition
to all applicable standards or regulations for the zone district in which the
use or structure is located. (Ord. 805-14, 7-1-2014)
6-11-3: ACCESSORY STRUCTURES:
   (A)   Accessory Structures Within Residential Districts:
      1.   Site Development Standards: Except as provided below, all accessory
structures, whether attached or detached, shall meet all site development
standards applicable to the main structure as required by the zone district in
which the main structure is located.
      2.   Canopies/Patio Covers: Canopies/patio covers or roofs attached to
the main building or connecting the main building to an accessory building, may
extend into a required rear or interior side yard; provided, that the portions
of such structures extending into the yard:
         (a)   Shall not exceed fifteen feet (15') in height, project closer
than thirty inches (30") to an interior side lot line, project closer than
thirty inches (30") to a rear lot line where the rear yard setback is five feet
(5'), or project closer than five feet (5') to a rear lot line where the rear
yard setback is in excess of five feet (5').
         (b)   Shall be entirely open on at least three (3) sides, excluding
the necessary supporting columns; except that a roof connecting a main building
and an accessory building shall be open on two (2) sides.
      3.   Ground Mounted Mechanical Equipment: Ground mounted equipment,
including, but not limited to, air conditioning compressors, evaporative
coolers and pool equipment, if fully enclosed, may be permitted in any rear or
interior side yard setback. If fully enclosed, said equipment may project a
maximum of four feet (4') into the required rear yard setback, and a maximum of
two feet (2') into the required interior side yard setback, but shall be
prohibited from projecting into the required front or street side yard
setbacks.
      4.   Roof Mounted Mechanical Equipment: All roof mounted mechanical
equipment, including, but not limited to, air conditioning compressors,
evaporative coolers and pool equipment, shall be located, when practical, on
the rear portion of the roof ridgeline in such a manner as to be screened from
public streets. On commercial property, said mechanical equipment may be placed
forward of a ridgeline, provided screening for the equipment has been approved.
Industrial property is exempt from this provision.
      5.   Detached Accessory Structures:
         (a)   A detached accessory structure may be located within an interior
side yard or rear yard; provided, that when such a structure is located closer
than five feet (5') to an interior side or rear lot line, one hour firewalls
shall be installed on the sides located within the setback area. In no case,
however, shall an accessory structure be located closer than thirty inches
(30") to an interior side property line or to a rear property line.
         (b)   Accessory buildings shall have a maximum height of fifteen feet
(15'); provided, however, that the accessory building is no higher than the
main structure.
      6.   Projections Into Yards: Porches, steps and other architectural
features, such as eaves, awnings, fireplaces, chimneys, balconies, stairways,
wing walls and bay windows may project a maximum of thirty inches (30") into
any required front, rear or side setback area.
   (B)   Accessory Structures Within Nonresidential Districts:
      1.   Location Within Building Frontage Prohibited: In any nonresidential
district, accessory structures shall not be located within the "building
frontage", as defined in section
6-1-19 of this title.
      2.   Setback Requirements: In any nonresidential district, accessory
structures shall meet all of the setback requirements for the associated main
buildings.
      3.   Encroachments: In nonresidential zone districts, eaves, roof
projections, awnings and similar adjacent architectural features may project
into the city right of way subject to receiving an approved encroachment permit
from the public works director.
      4.   Architectural Projections: Fireplaces, chimneys, bay windows,
balconies, fire escapes, exterior stairs and landings, and similar
architectural features, may project into required building setback areas a
maximum distance of thirty inches (30"); provided, that all such features in
any one setback shall not occupy more than twenty five (25) square feet of that
required building setback area.
      5.   Mechanical Equipment Height: Flues, chimneys, antennas, elevators
and other mechanical equipment, spires, bell towers or similar architectural,
utility or mechanical features, may exceed the height limit of the land use
district in which it is located by not more than twenty five percent (25%);
provided, that such feature shall not be used for habitable space and
appropriate screening is provided for mechanical equipment when possible.
      6.   Equipment Screening: Ground and wall mounted equipment incidental to
industrial, commercial or office development shall be appropriately screened
with solid walls and/or landscaping. Such equipment shall not be located in
front of a building and any screening provided shall be architecturally
compatible with adjacent architecture and materials.
      7.   Use Of Roof Mounted Equipment: Roof mounted equipment shall be used
only for the building upon which it is mounted.
      8.   Roof Mounted Equipment Screening: Roof mounted equipment shall be
screened from public view to the extent practicable, as follows:
         (a)   All roof screens must be solid and continuous. Equipment may be
covered by continuous grills or louvers, provided such grills or louvers are
architecturally compatible with the proposed or existing building.
         (b)   Roof screens shall be sheathed in a matching or complementary
material to the exterior building material and may include metal panels,
aluminum, copper, ceramic tile or other surface as approved by the project
assistance team.
         (c)   Mechanical plants and distribution networks shall be located in
a manner that is compatible with the affected building. (Ord. 805-14, 7-1-2014)
6-11-4: CIRCULATION, TRANSPORTATION AND TRAILS FACILITIES:
   (A)   Purpose And Intent: This section is intended to ensure that
development proposals which include the design and/or construction of new
roads, trails and transit facilities are consistent with the adopted
circulation element and open space/conservation element of the general plan,
and contribute to the implementation of the goals and policies of those
elements. Further, it is intended to ensure that proposed transportation
improvements are consistent with efficient traffic management and good traffic
engineering practices.
   (B)   Public Street, Highway, Alleys, Easements:
      1.   Design: All streets, highways, alleys and ways shall be designed and
constructed in accordance with the city's "Subdivision And Engineering Design
Manual" as may be periodically updated by the public works director and city
engineer.
      2.   Relate To Street Pattern: The design of any new street system
proposed as part of any new development shall, in the opinion of the public
works director and city engineer, relate to the establishment street pattern in
the area adjoining the proposed development.
      3.   Access; Future Development: The proposed street plan shall provide
for access and connection for future subdivision or development of adjoining
undeveloped property when applicable.
      4.   Street Design: All streets shall be designed, dedicated and
constructed in a manner consistent with the circulation element of the general
plan and the city's "Subdivision And Engineering Design Manual".
      5.   Additional Rights Of Way Or Easements: Additional rights of way or
easements shall be provided when the public works director and city engineer
determines that such additional rights of way or easements are necessary to
accommodate roadway slopes, drainage structures and other facilities related to
improvements required for a development.
      6.   Access: No direct access to residential property contiguous to a
freeway, highway or arterial street, as shown on the circulation element of the
general plan, shall be permitted, except by a frontage road, service road or
street separated from said major thoroughfare by a tier of lots.
      7.   Construction: The design and construction of new, or the extension
of any existing streets, shall be consistent with the surrounding street
pattern, the circulation element of the general plan, and the city's
"Subdivision And Engineering Design Manual". The design and construction of
parkways, grade separations, flood control facilities, local drainage
facilities and other physical constraints shall be consistent with good
engineering practice and shall be subject to approval by the public works
director and city engineer.
      8.   Secondary, Alternative Access: Secondary or alternative access shall
be provided for all new development whenever deemed necessary by the public
works director and city engineer to protect the public safety.
      9.   Centerline Alignment: Within subdivisions and other developments
where immediate full improvements are not required, the centerline alignment of
the street right of way shall be located so that future improvements can be
constructed in accordance with the conditions of approval.
      10.   Street Name Signs: The type and placement of required street name
signs shall conform to the city's "Subdivision And Engineering Design Manual".
      11.   Cul-De-Sacs: All new or reconstructed streets which are not through
streets shall terminate in a cul-de-sac, designed to the specifications of the
city's "Subdivision And Engineering Design Manual", unless specifically waived
by the public works director and city engineer in favor of some other design
alternative.
      12.   Streetlights: Streetlights shall be installed along the right of
way of all newly constructed or extended streets within the city, unless this
requirement is exempted by city ordinance, resolution or the city's
"Subdivision And Engineering Design Manual".
      13.   Clear Sight: Clear sight triangles shall be maintained at
intersections of public roadways, and at intersections of private driveways or
alleyways with public roadways in a manner consistent with the city's
"Subdivision And Engineering Design Manual".
   (C)   Private Streets, Alleys Or Ways:
      1.   When Permitted: Private streets, in accordance with the city's
"Subdivision And Engineering Design Manual", may be permitted when the public
works director and city engineer determine that:
         (a)   There is adequate provision for their construction and
continuous maintenance;
         (b)   The access and parking needs of the occupants of the development
will be adequately served;
         (c)   The construction, use and maintenance of private streets will
not be detrimental to the public health, safety and general welfare;
         (d)   Occupants of the development are better served by private
streets;
         (e)   The type of development proposed is typically served by private
streets.
      2.   Access Control: Private streets may, subject to approval by the
public works director and city engineer, provide for access control by design,
posting or gating.
      3.   Identification: The intersection of a private street or drive with a
public street shall be indicated by posting, gating or a change of pavement
material and color at the entry to the private street, as approved by the
public works director and city engineer.
      4.   Concrete Rolled Curbs: Concrete rolled curbs may be permitted in
place of standard curbs on private streets upon determination by the public
works director and city engineer that the concrete rolled curbs are in
accordance with the specifications of the city's "Subdivision And Engineering
Design Manual", that the streets are adequate to handle drainage, and that an
adequate maintenance program is provided for in the covenants, conditions and
restrictions, and/or some other maintenance mechanism approved by the city
attorney.
   (D)   Sidewalks, Walking Paths, Bicycle Paths And Horse Trails:
      1.   Construction; When Unnecessary: Sidewalks shall be constructed in
conjunction with public and private streets, unless they are determined by the
planning commission to be unnecessary, considering the rural nature of the
development and/or pedestrian circulation needs. If, however, the planning
commission determines that sidewalks are not necessary at the time that
determination is made, adequate right of way shall be provided for potential
need of any such sidewalks. Sidewalk construction shall be in accordance with
the city's "Subdivision And Engineering Design Manual".
      2.   Dedications For Public Use: The city may require dedication of
walking paths, equestrian and/or other trails for public use when such paths
are determined to be necessary to further goals and objectives, policies or
programs of the general plan. In addition, and in conjunction with required
street dedications, a project applicant may also be required to dedicate such
additional land as may be necessary and feasible to provide bicycle paths for
the use and safety of the residents of the development.
   (E)   Local Transit Facilities: The city may require that dedication or
irrevocable offer of dedication of land for local transit facilities, such as
bus turnouts, benches, shelters, loading pads and similar items. If a
subdivision is involved, such requirements shall directly benefit the residents
of the subdivisions, and shall apply only if the subdivision as shown on the
tentative map has the potential for two hundred (200) dwelling units or more if
developed to the maximum density shown on the general plan and if the city
finds that transit services are or will, within a reasonable time, be made
available to the subdivision. (Ord. 805-14, 7-1-2014)
6-11-5: CONDOMINIUMS AND CONDOMINIUM CONVERSIONS:
   (A)   Purpose And Intent: The purpose of this section is to establish
development standards and special conditions for the protection of the
community and purchasers or renters of both new and converted residential and
commercial condominiums, community apartment projects and stock cooperatives,
and the lessors of cooperative apartment projects and stock cooperatives, and
the lessors of cooperative apartments, as well as mobilehome park residents in
parks proposed for subdivision activity.
   (B)   Applicability:
      1.   All new or converting residential and commercial condominiums,
community apartment projects, stock cooperatives and cooperative apartments,
including mobilehome park conversions, shall be reviewed for conformance with
the provisions of this title under the city's conditional use permit procedure,
in addition to any and all requirements for preparation, review and approval
for a subdivision map, pursuant to the subdivision map act and title X of this
code.
      2.   This section shall also apply to the conversion of mobilehome parks
to a mobilehome subdivision, condominium or cooperative. Conversion of a
mobilehome park to any other use, or cessation of use of the land for a
mobilehome park, shall be subject to California Government Code sections
65863.7 and 65863.8.
   (C)   Minimum Requirements: Except as otherwise provided by law, in
approving or conditionally approving any condominium projects, including
conversion of apartments or mobilehome parks, the following shall be required:
      1.   Parking: Off street parking shall be provided in the amount and type
pursuant to standards for new construction in chapter 14 of this title.
      2.   Yard And Height Requirements: All new condominium projects,
including conversions of apartment or conversion of mobilehome park
developments, shall comply with property development standards for the district
in which the project is to be located, except that nothing in this section
shall be construed to prohibit the imposition of more restrictive requirements
as a condition of approval by the city when necessary to protect the public
health, safety or general welfare, based upon appropriate findings.
      3.   Covenants, Conditions And Restrictions (CC&Rs): The covenants,
conditions and restrictions (CC&Rs) for the new or converting condominium
project, including conversion of apartment and mobilehome park projects, shall
be reviewed and approved by the planning director and shall include an
agreement that the following shall be guaranteed by the developer:
         (a)   Common area items, including, but not limited to, a roof,
plumbing, heating, air conditioning and electrical systems shall be maintained
by the sponsor of the conversion, or the developer, in good condition until one
year elapses from the date of the sale of the last individual unit sold.
         (b)   Adequate provisions for maintenance, repair and upkeep of common
areas.
         (c)   Provisions that in the event of destruction, reconstruction
shall be in accordance with codes in effect at the time of such reconstruction.
         (d)   Provisions for dedication of land or establishment of easements
for street widening or other public purpose.
      4.   Changes: The CC&Rs shall provide that individual unit owners have
the right to select or change the management group or the homeowners'
association ninety (90) days after sale or transfer of title of fifty one
percent (51%) of the units. The CC&Rs shall provide that subsequent owners
agree to make no changes in the CC&Rs imposing restrictions on the age, race,
national origin, sex, marital status or other similar restrictions of
occupants, residents or owners.
   (D)   Condominium And Mobilehome Park Conversion:
      1.   Condominium conversions and mobilehome park conversions may be
approved in the city pursuant to the procedures in section
6-2-5 of this title for a conditional use permit and for a tentative map as set
forth in title X of this code and the California subdivision map act.
      2.   No condominium conversion or mobilehome park conversion shall be
approved unless and until all of the following conditions have been met by the
developer:
         (a)   Tenants have received a tenant's notice of intent to convert
pursuant to the provisions of California Government Code section 66427.1
(subdivision map act) prior to filing a notice of pending application to
convert with the planning director. Such notice shall be given by the
applicant, and shall contain information as to tenants' rights under state and
local regulations.
         (b)   A notice of pending application to convert has been filed with
the planning director, prior to the filing of a tentative subdivision map and
conditional use permit application. The notice shall include a copy of the
tenant's notice of intent to convert and a building condition and history
report prepared by a building inspection service or similar agency acceptable
to the building official and fire department. The report shall contain
information set forth on forms to be provided by the planning director,
including, but not limited to, date of construction, a list of all repairs and
renovations to be made, an analysis of building conditions and any violations
of housing, fire or building codes, a listing of the proposed improvements to
be carried out, an estimated time schedule, the present rent schedule,
including type and length of tenancy, the estimated prices of the converted
units and/or lots, a copy of the proposed CC&Rs, a tenant relocation assistance
plan indicating the number of tenants interested in the purchasing or
relocating and detailed plans for assisting in the relocation of tenants. The
developer shall furnish each prospective buyer with a copy of this report,
together with the CC&Rs.
         (c)   The planning director shall prepare and deliver to the applicant
a staff report, including a staff recommendation for approval or denial, a
listing of conditions or requirements recommended as a basis for approval, and
supportive reasons or justifications for such recommendations.
         (d)   Tenants shall be notified by the developer in writing, of all
public hearings in connection with an application for conversions, and all
tenants subsequent to the initial notice of intent shall be notified in writing
of the pending conversion prior to occupancy.
         (e)   The applicant shall comply with the latest city adopted
California building code, California mechanical code, California international
plumbing code, California electrical code, California fire code, and all other
applicable codes, ordinances and regulations. The applicant shall further
complete such alterations or repairs required by the building official prior to
the sale of any such units.
         (f)   Written notice shall be given to all residential tenants not
less than one year from the date of the tentative approval.
      3.   For residential conversions, the planning commission shall also
determine that:
         (a)   The conversion is consistent with the general plan; and
         (b)   The vacancy factor of rental housing units in the city exceeds
three percent (3%) of the total rental housing inventory. Existing rental units
may be approved for conversion regardless of the vacancy factor if the planning
commission determines that a new rental unit has or will be added to the city's
housing inventory for each rental unit removed through conversion; and
         (c)   The developer has complied with all provisions of this title and
all other requirements and conditions as may be imposed by the planning
commission. (Ord. 805-14, 7-1-2014)
6-11-6: CONVERSION OF RESIDENTIAL STRUCTURES TO NONRESIDENTIAL USE:
Except where a home occupation is involved, no structure originally designed as
a residence (including hotels and motels), or as an accessory structure or
addition to a residence, shall be used for any commercial or office use, unless
the building and site are improved to meet all code requirements for an office
or commercial development. This includes, but is not limited to, building
codes, fire codes and the requirements of this title. Such a conversion may be
a permitted use or may be subject to a conditional use permit process,
depending on the base district use regulations. (Ord. 805-14, 7-1-2014)
6-11-7: DEDICATION REQUIREMENTS:
   (A)   General Requirements: The dedication requirements, as specified by
this section, are imposed as provided by section 66475 of the subdivision map
act and shall apply to all final tract and parcel maps, parcel map waivers, lot
line adjustments and lot mergers, unless exempted from specific dedication
requirements by the subdivision map act. In addition, the provisions of this
section may be imposed as necessary on projects not involving a subdivision in
order to implement the provisions of the general plan.
   (B)   Public Streets, Highways, Alleys, Easements:
      1.   All streets, highways, alleys, ways, easements, rights of way and
parcels of land which are shown on the final tract map, parcel map or
development plan, and which are intended for public use, shall be offered for
dedication for public use by appropriate certificate. All irrevocable offers of
dedication shall also be shown by appropriate certificate. If a subdivision is
involved, the certificate shall be on the title sheet of the final map. Where
lots exist along a public street, highway, alley or easement that does not
align with the subject lot, the developer of any such lot shall dedicate to the
city such land necessary to assure the continued planned line of improvements
along such lot prior to the issuance of a building permit.
      2.   When vehicular access rights from any lot or parcel to any highway
or street are to be restricted as a requirement of a subdivision, such rights
shall be forfeited in favor of the city by an appropriate certificate. A note
stating "Vehicular Access Rights Dedicated To The City Of Taft" shall be placed
on the final map along the highway or street adjacent to the lots or parcels
affected. If a subdivision is not involved, equivalent certificates and notes
dedicating such vehicular access rights shall be required in a form approved by
the public works director and city engineer.
   (C)   Utility And Landscape Easements: Any public or private utility and/or
landscape easements required by a utility agency or by the city shall be shown
on the final tract map, parcel map or by the equivalent documentation if a
subdivision is not involved. Said easements shall be dedicated to the
appropriate party.
   (D)   Drainage Facilities:
      1.   In the event that a subdivision or development, or any part thereof,
is determined by the public works director and city engineer to be traversed by
a major watercourse, channel, stream or creek, the developer shall dedicate an
adequate right of way for storm drainage purposes if, in the opinion of the
public works director and city engineer, such dedication is necessary. In the
event that the natural watercourse does not lie entirely within such
dedication, the developer may, as approved by the public works director and
city engineer, either construct an adequate channel within such dedication or
delineate the course of such watercourse upon the final map or upon an
equivalent document if a subdivision is not involved.
      2.   If an artificial drainage facility is necessary for the general use
of lot or parcel owners in a subdivision or other development, and is necessary
for adequate drainage, as may result from the development and its improvements,
the developer may be required to provide such improvements. If required, an
adequate right of way for the construction and maintenance of such drainage
channel shall be dedicated on the final map, if applicable, or granted by
separate instrument.
      3.   When storm drains are necessary for the general use of lot or parcel
owners in a subdivision, or other developments, and such storm drains are not
to be installed in the streets, alleys or ways of such subdivision or
development, then the developer shall offer to dedicate upon the final tract
map, parcel map or by separate instrument, the necessary rights of way for such
facilities.
      4.   When property, or any portion thereof, being subdivided or developed
is within the natural or artificially planned drainage path, as indicated in
any approved city drainage plan adjoining unsubdivided or undeveloped property,
and no street, alley or way within the subdivision or development is designed
to adequately provide for the drainage of such adjoining property, the
developer shall dedicate drainage rights of way which are adequate to
accommodate the flows calculated for such adjoining property based on the full
development of said adjoining property. (Ord. 805-14, 7-1-2014)
6-11-8: DEVELOPMENT DENSITY; DENSITY BONUSES:
The maximum allowable development density or intensity of development shall be
as specified in the general plan and as specified in the zone district within
which the proposed development is to be located. In determining the allowable
number of dwelling units on a development parcel, all remainders of fifty one
percent (51%) or greater shall be rounded to the next higher whole number.
   (A)   Affordable Housing And Qualifying Residents Projects:
      1.   Requirements: Granting of a discretionary density bonus or other
equivalent financial incentive is governed by Government Code section 65915
when a developer of a residential project agrees to meet the following
requirements:
         (a)   Construct at least twenty percent (20%) of the total units for
lower income households, as defined in Health And Safety Code section 50079.5;
or
         (b)   Construct at least ten percent (10%) of the total units for very
low income households, as defined in Health And Safety Code section 50105; or
         (c)   Construct at least fifty percent (50%) of the total units for
qualifying residents, as defined in Civil Code section 51.3; or
         (d)   Provide at least thirty percent (30%) of the total units within
condominium conversions of apartments for low or moderate income households, as
defined in Health And Safety Code section 50093; or
         (e)   Provide at least fifteen percent (15%) of the total units within
condominium conversions of apartments for lower income households, as defined
in Health And Safety Code section 50079.5.
      2.   Number Of Residential Units; Conditional Use Permit; Additional
Provisions: A request for a discretionary density bonus and regulatory
concessions or incentives shall apply to projects of five (5) or more
residential units, shall require the approval of a conditional use permit, and
shall be subject to the following provisions:
         (a)   Density bonus shall mean up to twenty five percent (25%) density
increase over the maximum allowable base general plan land use density. In
calculating the number of units which is equal to the required threshold as
identified in subsections (A)1(a) through (A)1(e) of this section, the density
bonus shall not be included in such calculation.
         (b)   The policies for achieving a density bonus shall be as follows:
            (1) The city shall approve the density bonus and regulatory
concessions and/or incentives only if the following findings can be made:
               A.   Affordable Housing:
                  i.The proposed project is consistent with the goals, policies
and strategies of the general plan; and
                  ii.The proponent has demonstrated that the waiving or
modifying of development standards is necessary to ensure the economic
feasibility of the project; and
                  iii.The target units will be within the income level for
those individuals for which the units are proposed to be developed.
               B.   Qualifying Residents:
                  i.The proposed project is consistent with the goals, policies
and strategies of the general plan; and
                  ii.The proponent has demonstrated that the waiving or
modifying of development standards is necessary to ensure the economic
feasibility of the project; and
                  iii.A commitment has been submitted in writing by the
developer guaranteeing that the facility or development will be used for
qualifying residents.
      3.   Agreement: Concurrent with the processing of a conditional use
permit for an affordable housing or qualifying residents project, the developer
shall enter into an affordable housing or qualifying residents agreement for
any target dwelling unit for which a bonus density regulatory concessions and/
or incentives have been granted as follows:
         (a)   The agreement shall be for thirty (30) years or longer, as may
be required for any construction or mortgage financing assistance program,
mortgage insurance program, rental subsidy program or other similar programs,
unless the city makes a written finding that an additional concession or
incentive is not required in order to provide for affordable housing costs as
defined in Health And Safety Code section 50052.5 or for rents or equivalent
housing payment for the targeted units to be set as specified herein, in which
case the agreement shall be for ten (10) years.
In the event that the city redevelopment agency provides any assistance, the
agreement shall be as follows: 1) no less than the life of the land use
restriction of the redevelopment plan; or 2) such other length of time as
approved by the city redevelopment agency and/or the city. In any case, the
provisions of Government Code section 65915 shall govern.
         (b)   Dwelling units targeted for lower income households, as defined
in Health And Safety Code section 50079.5, shall be targeted at a rent or
equivalent monthly housing payment not to exceed thirty percent (30%) of the
eighty percent (80%) of Kern County median income as defined by HUD or the
state.
         (c)   Dwelling units targeted for very low income households, as
defined in Health And Safety Code section 50105, shall be targeted at a rent or
equivalent monthly housing payment not to exceed thirty percent (30%) of fifty
percent (50%) of Kern County median income as defined by HUD or state.
         (d)   The covenants, conditions and restrictions (CC&Rs) and the
affordable housing or qualifying residents agreement shall specify the
designated target units which shall be set aside for persons or households of
affordable income levels or qualifying residents, and shall include a covenant
that the developer or his/her successor in interest shall not sell, rent,
lease, sublet, assign or otherwise transfer any interest of the same which no
longer complies with the provisions of the CC&Rs and affordable housing
agreement or qualifying residents agreement without the written approval of the
city. An annual report shall be submitted by January 31 of each year to the
planning director confirming that the rent or sales price, or age restrictions
for qualifying residents of all target units for the previous calendar year, is
within the income levels or meets the age restrictions as specified herein.
      4.   Concessions, Incentives: In addition to any density bonus provided
for the project, the city shall provide at least one of the following
concessions or incentives or provide other incentives of equivalent financial
values based upon the land cost per dwelling unit to the developer, unless the
city makes a finding satisfying the requirements of this section:
         (a)   A reduction in site development standards or a modification of
zoning code requirements or architectural design requirements which exceed the
minimum building standards approved by the state building standards commission
as provided in part 2.5 (commencing with section 18901) of division 13 of the
Health And Safety Code, including, but not limited to, a reduction in setback
and square footage requirements and in the ratio of vehicular parking spaces
that would otherwise be required.
         (b)   Approval of mixed use zoning in conjunction with housing project
if commercial, office, industrial or other land uses will reduce the cost of
the housing development and if the commercial, office, industrial or other land
uses are compatible with the housing project and the existing or planned
development in the areas where the proposed housing project will be located.
         (c)   Other regulatory incentives or concessions proposed by the
developer and/or city.
In the case of condominium conversions, the city need only grant a density
bonus or other incentives of equivalent financial value. The city need not
provide a cash transfer payment or other monetary compensation, but may include
the reduction or waiver of requirements which the city may apply as conditions
of approval.
      5.   Qualifying Residents:
         (a)   Residential occupancy shall be limited to single persons at
least sixty two (62) years old, or to cohabiting couples of which one person is
at least sixty two (62) years of age for projects less than one hundred fifty
(150) units. Such age restriction may be reduced to fifty five (55) years old
for projects greater than one hundred fifty (150) units.
         (b)   This subsection shall apply to both independent living and
congregate care facilities as described below:
(1) Independent living: Facilities designed to accommodate independent
lifestyles shall include individual rooms which, at a minimum, consists of a
full bathroom, sleeping area, kitchen and parking garage.
(2) Congregate care facilities: Shall provide, at a minimum, a full bathroom,
sleeping area, communal kitchen, dining area and recreational area appropriate
for the number of residents.
      6.   Development Design And Facilities:
         (a)   Lighting: Adequate external lighting shall be provided for
security purposes. The lighting shall be directed away from adjacent properties
and public right of way.
         (b)   Laundry Facilities:
(1) Independent living: Washer and dryer hookups shall be provided in each
dwelling unit or in an attached garage.
(2) Congregate care facilities: On site common laundry facilities, including
installation of washer and dryers shall be provided and may include shared
laundry rooms.
         (c)   Common Facilities: These may include one or more of the
following facilities located on site for the specific use of the residents of
the project, if approved by the planning agency:
(1) Beauty salon and barber shop.
(2) Small scale pharmacy.
(3) Private common transportation carrier, maintained and operated by the
facility.
(4) Other similar facilities for the sole enjoyment of the residents.
         (d)   Minimum Unit Size: The minimum floor area for each residential
unit shall be as follows: Notwithstanding the provisions of section
6-4-3, table 4.B of this title, regulating minimum dwelling unit size, the
units provided shall be no less than four hundred fifteen (415) square feet in
floor area for efficiency units, five hundred forty (540) square feet in floor
area for one bedroom, and six hundred forty (640) square feet in floor area for
two (2) bedrooms, or as otherwise approved by the approving authority.
(1) Open Space Requirements:
   A.Private Open Space: Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection
6-4-4(D) of this title, each dwelling unit shall be provided with a usable
private open space in the form of a patio or courtyard with a minimum area of
one hundred (100) square feet and a minimum dimension of ten feet (10'), or a
balcony of eighty (80) square feet and a minimum dimension of eight feet (8').
   B.Common Open Space: Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection
6-4-4(C) of this title, two hundred twenty five (225) square feet of usable
common open space per unit shall be provided within the boundaries of all
projects. Usable open space shall constitute areas readily available, practical
and generally acceptable for active and/or passive recreational uses. Up to
forty percent (40%) of the required common open space may be provided in the
form of a common leisure/recreation room.
(2) Parking Security: Parking facilities shall be designed to provide security
for residents, guests, employees, shall be integrated into the architecture of
the facility, and shall comply with the provisions of chapter 14 of this title.
(3) Transit Facilities:
   A.A bus turnout and shelter along the street frontage may be required to be
dedicated and constructed where the development occurs along an established or
planned bus route.
   B.In lieu of a bus turnout and shelter, the developer may provide a private,
on site taxi or equivalent service.
   (B)   Additional Residential Conditions: The city may impose additional
standards or conditions specific to the project and/or environmental mitigation
measures related to the project.
   (C)   Qualifying Nonresidential Projects:
      1.   Granting Of A Floor Area Ratio Bonus: Granting of a floor area ratio
bonus is governed by Government Code section 65917.5 when a developer of a
commercial or industrial project agrees to meet the following requirements:
         (a)   The commercial or industrial project must consist of at least
fifty thousand (50,000) square feet of floor area.
         (b)   The developer must agree to set aside at least two thousand
(2,000) square feet of floor area and three thousand (3,000) outdoor square
feet to be used for a childcare facility.
      2.   Requests For A Floor Area Ratio Density Bonus: Requests for a floor
area ratio density bonus shall apply to commercial and industrial projects of
fifty thousand (50,000) square feet or greater, shall require approval of a
conditional use permit, and shall be subject to the following provisions:
         (a)   "Floor area ratio bonus" means a floor area ratio bonus over the
otherwise maximum allowable density permitted under the applicable zoning and
general plan requirements, including:
(1) A maximum of five (5) square feet of floor area for each one square foot of
floor area contained in the childcare facilities for existing structures.
(2) A maximum of ten (10) square feet of floor area for each one square foot of
floor area contained in the childcare facilities for new structures.
(3) Projects constructed under this section shall conform to height, setback,
lot coverage, parking, site plan review, fees, charges and other health, safety
and zoning requirements generally applicable construction in the zone in which
the property is located, except as may be modified in this chapter.
         (b)   The daycare facility may be located either on site or off site
as agreed upon by the developer and the city, and shall be of a size to comply
with all state licensing requirements in order to accommodate a minimum of
forty (40) children. A consortium with more than one developer may be used in
order to achieve the threshold amount for the available floor area ratio
density bonus and with each developer's bonus density prorated based on the
percentage participation of each developer.
         (c)   The developer may either operate the daycare facility itself or
may contract with a licensed childcare provider to operate the facility. In all
cases, the developer must coordinate with a local childcare resource and
referral network in order to qualify for the floor area ratio bonus.
         (d)   Once the childcare facility has been established, prior to any
closure, change in use or reduction in the size of the facility, the city
council shall find that the need for childcare is no longer present, or is not
present to the same degree as it was at the time the daycare facility was
developed.
      3.   Additional Nonresidential Conditions: The city may impose additional
standards or conditions specific to the project and/or environmental mitigation
measures related to the project. (Ord. 805-14, 7-1-2014)
6-11-9: FENCES AND WALLS:
   (A)   Residential Districts:
      1.   In any required front yard or street side yard of a reversed corner
lot, a wall or fence shall not exceed forty inches (40") in height.
         (a)   A front yard fence or wall shall not have more than the first
twenty four inches (24") of said fence or wall above grade be of a solid
material.
         (b)   A wooden picket, vinyl/composite picket, wrought iron, tube
steel, or other similar semitransparent fence shall have pickets no more than
four inches (4") in width and space said pickets no closer than two inches (2")
apart and no more than four inches (4") apart.
         (c)   Any front yard fence that is part of a retaining wall that
exceeds two feet (2') in height shall have no portion of said fence be solid.
Such fence shall have a picket design per subsection (A)1(b) of this section.
      2.   A wall or fence not more than six feet (6') in height, as measured
from the adjacent grade on the same parcel may be maintained along any interior
side yard, rear yard or street side yard; provided, that such wall or fence
does not extend into the required front yard or the street side yard of a
reverse corner lot.
      3.   Fences and walls located between residential lots shall be
constructed with professional craftsmanship quality of wood, wrought iron, tube
steel, chainlink, masonry block or other durable materials.
      4.   Fences and walls placed between residential lots and adjoining
rights of way, arterial streets and arterial highways shall be constructed with
professional craftsmanship quality of wood, wrought iron, tube steel,
chainlink, masonry block or other decorative and durable materials. Solid
masonry walls for visual screening and sound attenuation may be required for
residential uses or residentially zoned property or where more sensitive
adjacent land uses exist, as required and approved by the planning director.
      5.   Except where the planning director determines that screening is
needed, open walls and fences shall be placed along side and rear yards that
are adjacent to open space areas.
      6.   No barbed wire shall be used or maintained as a fence or wall, or as
any part of a fence or wall when located along a front, side or rear property
line of any lot or within three feet (3') of any such property line; nor shall
any sharp wire or points project to the side or above the top of any fence or
wall.
      7.   Prohibited fence and wall materials include, but are not limited to:
scrap metal, scrap wood or scrap masonry block; chicken wire or other wire
fencing; corrugated metal or plastic; or other similar nondurable or
nontraditional fence and wall materials.
   (B)   Nonresidential Districts:
      1.   Within any required front building setback area, wall or fences
shall not exceed forty inches (40") in height. However, walls or fences may be
permitted up to a maximum height of five feet (5'); provided, that the portion
of the fence or wall above forty inches (40") in height is ninety percent (90%)
light emitting wrought iron or other similar material.
      2.   Fences and walls for the purpose of screening commercial and
industrial activities from more sensitive land uses, and for sound attenuation,
shall be required as a condition of approval for commercial or industrial
development:
         (a)   Open fences may be used so long as solid, durable and opaque
screening materials are applied to provide the required screening.
         (b)   Plastic slats in chainlink fencing shall be made of an opaque,
durable material and occupy the full width of the chainlink fence openings.
The height, placement and design of such walls shall be determined based on the
required sound attenuation and/or need for visual screening to ensure
consistency with general plan policies and performance standards. In some
instances, site specific conditions may require a variance to maximum wall
height requirements in order to meet the provisions of this subsection.
      3.   In any required rear or interior side building setback area, except
as provided by subsection (B)2 of this section, walls and fences shall not
exceed six feet (6') in height, except with an approved conditional use permit.
      4.   No barbed wire shall be used or maintained as a fence or wall, or as
any part of a fence or wall, when located along a front, side or rear property
line, or when placed in such a manner as to be visible from a public or private
street; nor shall any sharp wire or points project above the top of any fence
or wall that is either less than six feet (6') in height or is visible from any
public or private street in a commercial zone district, however, such barbed
wire may be permitted in an industrial zone district.
      5.   Prohibited fence and wall materials include, but are not limited to:
scrap metal, scrap wood or scrap masonry block; fabric screening; chicken wire
or other wire fencing; corrugated metal or plastic; or other similar nondurable
or nontraditional fence and wall materials.
   (C)   Maintenance And Nuisance: Every owner of real property and every
occupant, lessee, or holder of any interest in real property is required to
maintain such property, including fences and walls, in a manner so as not to
violate the public nuisance provisions of title III, chapter 4 of this code.
Any violation of this section or title III, chapter 4 of this code may be
subject to code enforcement citations and penalties per titles III and I of
this code. (Ord. 816-16, 5-3-2016)
6-11-10: GRADING:
Whenever a tentative map or other residential, commercial or industrial
development is approved, which will require grading or other preparation of the
soil, the city may impose conditions relating to grading on the approval of the
development. Such grading conditions shall be in addition to any other
provisions of the building code applicable to the project. Such conditions
shall be included by the building official or public works director and city
engineer in any grading permit thereafter issued. Such conditions may include,
but are not limited to, the following:
   (A)   A requirement that lands slope toward rather than away from the
street.
   (B)   Requirements for planting and landscaping of slopes.
   (C)   Requirements for the irrigation of slopes.
   (D)   Limitations on the amount of soil to be imported or exported from the
site.
   (E)   A designation of the streets over which trucks or equipment may travel
for the purpose of importing or exporting soil.
   (F)   A limitation on the periods during which grading operations may occur.
   (G)   Such other conditions as will facilitate an orderly development of the
property in accordance with the provisions of the general plan and the
project's approval. (Ord. 805-14, 7-1-2014)
6-11-11: HAZARDOUS MATERIALS MANAGEMENT:
   (A)   Purpose And Intent: In accordance with state law and the adopted Kern
County hazardous waste management plan, the purpose of this section is to
ensure that businesses locating or operating within the city, which utilize,
store, transport or dispose of hazardous materials, incorporate available risk
management and waste minimization practices into their operations. Furthermore,
the intent of this section is to minimize the risk of exposure to hazardous
materials for residents and property within the city.
   (B)   Preliminary Information Requirements:
      1.   All land use applications submitted for a new business or for
expansion, or modification of an existing business, shall provide information
disclosing the amount and type of hazardous materials used and hazardous waste
generated, the business practices for management and reduction of these
substances, and emergency response procedures in the event of an accidental
release.
      2.   A preliminary hazardous waste minimization plan which identifies
proposed waste management and reduction efforts shall be submitted to the city
with all applications for land uses which are potential hazardous waste
generators, as defined by the Kern County hazardous waste management plan.
   (C)   Hazardous Materials Notification Requirements:
      1.   Any land use which handles or will handle any hazardous material or
hazardous waste (as defined by the county hazardous waste management plan) in
excess of fifty five (55) gallons of liquid, three hundred (300) pounds of
solid, two hundred (200) cubic feet of compressed gases, or any combination
thereof, unless the federal threshold is lower, shall prepare and submit a
business plan to the county department of environmental health services and the
city fire department prior to final approval of any permits. The contents of
said business plan shall be as required by the county hazardous waste
management plan.
      2.   Prior to final approval, a risk management and prevention program,
as defined in the county hazardous waste management plan, shall be submitted to
the county department of environmental health services and city fire department
for review and approval by any new, modified or expanded land use within the
city which handles or will handle "acutely hazardous materials" (AHM), as
defined in the county hazardous waste management plan, in amounts greater than
fifty five (55) gallons of liquid, five hundred (500) pounds of solid or two
hundred (200) cubic feet of a compressed gas.
      3.   Commercial and industrial uses which propose to locate within the
city provide the fire department with a list of all hazardous materials used at
the site, a description of where and how each is stored, and how each react in
a fire.
      4.   Placards or other appropriate signage shall be placed on all
buildings or structures which are used for the storage of hazardous materials
or wastes.
   (D)   Unlawful Discharges: The unlawful discharge of hazardous wastes into
the air, land or water resources within city boundaries is prohibited. (Ord.
805-14, 7-1-2014)
6-11-12: HEIGHT LIMITATIONS:
Unless modified by this chapter, chapter 12, "Specific Use Development
Standards", or 13, "Performance Standards", of this title, the maximum
allowable height of a structure shall conform to the regulations of the zone
district within which the structure is to be located. (Ord. 805-14, 7-1-2014)
6-11-13: IMPROVEMENT STANDARDS AND PLANS:
   (A)   Improvement Standards:
      1.   Standards for the design and improvements of subdivision and other
developments shall be in accordance with the applicable sections of title X of
this code, the subdivision map act, the general plan, any specific plans
adopted by the city, and such other standards, regulations or ordinances as
may, from time to time, be adopted by the city council.
      2.   In the absence of a standard for an improvement, the public works
director and city engineer may establish a standard in keeping with good
construction and engineering practices.
   (B)   Improvement Plans Required:
      1.   All improvements proposed to be constructed or installed in
subdivisions or other residential, commercial or industrial developments shall
be in accordance with detailed plans and specifications approved in writing by
the public works director and city engineer prior to commencement of said
improvement work.
      2.   Improvement plans in sufficient detail shall be submitted to and
shall be approved by the public works director and city engineer prior to
submitting a final subdivision map to the city council, or if no final
subdivision map to the city council, or if no final subdivision map is
required, prior to commencement of construction.
      3.   Required improvement plans shall show the location of all existing
improvements, including, but not limited to, electrical, natural gas,
telephone, and any other service facilities adjacent to or potentially affected
by the proposed improvements. Specific improvement plan requirements shall be
compiled and made available to the public by the public works director and/or
the city engineer. Improvement plans shall be prepared by a professional civil
engineer registered in the state of California.
      4.   All improvement plans shall be prepared by a registered civil
engineer. Said improvements shall be completed or shall be bonded for, in
accordance with adopted city bonding requirements, by each developer, as
required by the conditions of approval, prior to acceptance of the final tract
map, or the equivalent, if a final subdivision map is not required.
      5.   Improvements which are proposed to be or are required to be located
within state highway rights of way shall be shown on the improvement plans and
shall be designed to California department of transportation standards. Prior
to approval by the public works director and city engineer, the developer shall
acquire the department of transportation's approval of such improvements.
      6.   An encroachment permit shall be obtained prior to commencement of
any work done in connection with subdivisions or other residential, commercial
or industrial development projects within the public right of way. (Ord. 805-
14, 7-1-2014)
6-11-14: LIGHTING:
   (A)   Nonresidential:
      1.   All outdoor lighting associated with nonresidential uses, excluding
recreational uses, shall be shielded and directed away from surrounding
residential uses. Such lighting shall not exceed one-half (0.5) foot-candle of
illumination beyond the property containing the nonresidential use, and shall
not blink, flash, oscillate or be of unusually high intensity of brightness.
      2.   Parking areas of five (5) or more spaces shall have an average of
one-half (0.5) foot-candle of illumination per square foot of parking area for
visibility and security during hours of darkness.
      3.   Each parking area of five (5) or more spaces existing prior to the
effective date hereof, which is enlarged, reconstructed, altered or changed
from its previous configuration, shall be subject to the above illumination
requirements.
      4.   Wiring for illumination shall be underground.
      5.   The following types of outdoor lighting usage shall be prohibited
between ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. and dawn:
         (a)   The operation of searchlights for advertising purposes; and
         (b)   The illumination of outdoor public recreational facilities,
unless a specific recreational activity requiring the lighting is already in
progress. All lighting shall be on a time clock or photo sensor system.
   (B)   Residential:
      1.   All single-family, duplex and triplex residential dwelling units
shall be equipped with security lighting affixed to the exterior of each garage
and above the exterior of each front and rear door.
         (a)   Lights shall be installed and shall be hardwired into the
electrical power source.
         (b)   Lights shall be shielded and directed away from surrounding
residential uses and shall not blink, oscillate or be of unusually high
intensity.
      2.   Outdoor light poles within residential areas, except for street
lighting, shall not exceed twelve feet (12') in height. Such lighting shall be
designated to project downward, and shall not create glare on adjacent
properties.
   (C)   Recreational: A conditional use permit shall be required for all sport
and athletic field, stadium, or major event lighting. (Ord. 805-14, 7-1-2014)
6-11-15: MINIMUM BUILDING SITES:
Unless otherwise specified in chapter 12, "Specific Use Development Standards",
of this title, the minimum allowable building site size shall be in accordance
with the regulations of the zone district within which the structure is to be
located. (Ord. 805-14, 7-1-2014)
6-11-16: MANUFACTURED HOUSING:
Manufactured housing, fabricated off site and to be installed on a parcel of
land, including mobilehomes, manufactured homes and modular homes, may be
permitted on individual lots that permit single-family detached housing,
subject to the following requirements:
   (A)   Permanent Foundation: The manufactured home is permanently attached to
a permanent foundation in compliance with all applicable building regulations.
   (B)   Mobilehomes; Certification Required: If the manufactured home is a
mobilehome, construction shall be certified under the national mobilehome
construction and safety standards act of 1974 (42 USC section5401 et seq.),
pursuant to Health And Safety Code section 18551. Documentation indicating
certification and construction date must be submitted to the building
department in order to secure a valid building permit.
   (C)   Minimum Size: The manufactured home is no less than sixteen feet (16')
wide and no less than eight hundred fifty (850) square feet in area.
   (D)   Criteria For Compatibility: The planning director determines that the
placement of the manufactured home is compatible with the existing development
in the immediate area in which it is being placed, in accordance with the
following criteria:
      1.   The design of the manufactured home shall be similar in character
and appearance to other dwellings in the immediate vicinity relative to design
features, including, but not limited to, unit size, roof overhangs, roof
materials, roof pitch and exterior materials; and
      2.   All building setbacks, parking, coverage, height and sign
requirements of the base district shall apply.
   (E)   Architectural Requirements: Manufactured housing shall comply with the
following architectural requirements:
      1.   A minimum three (3) in twelve inches (12") vertical to twelve inches
(12") horizontal, roof pitch and a minimum of one foot (1') eave around the
entire perimeter of the manufactured home, as measured from the vertical wall
surface, is required.
      2.   Roofing material customarily utilized in the construction of a
conventional single-family dwelling, such as, but not limited to, wood,
shingles, tiles, asphalt or composition shingles is required.
      3.   Only nonreflective or nonglassy siding materials customarily
utilized in the construction of conventional single-family housing shall be
permitted. These materials may include, but are not limited to, brick, stucco,
wood or plaster.
      4.   The predominant shape and form of the manufactured home shall be
compatible with that of the surrounding neighborhood.
      5.   The design and materials of any enclosed garage, porch or other
structure that is visible from the street, shall be compatible with the
requirements and architecture of the main dwelling.
   (F)   Conditional Use Permit: Manufactured homes not meeting installation
and architectural requirements specified in this section, shall be permitted
only upon approval of a conditional use permit, pursuant to the provisions of
this title. (Ord. 805-14, 7-1-2014)
6-11-17: MOBILEHOME PARKS:
   (A)   Purpose And Intent: The intent and purpose of this section is to
establish standards to be used in the development of mobilehome parks within
the city. These standards are intended to assure a suitable living environment
for those persons residing within mobilehome parks and within nearby
residential neighborhoods.
   (B)   Objectives:
      1.   Private Streets: Encourage the use of private streets and the
private maintenance thereof.
      2.   Amenities, Common Areas: Provide for recreational amenities and
common areas, with controls and maintenance thereof by the mobilehome park
owner, homeowners' association or common interest group.
      3.   Design: Provide a design that is related to and compatible with
existing and planned land uses and circulation patterns on adjoining
properties.
   (C)   Conditional Use Permit: A conditional use permit, as provided in
section
6-2-5 of this title, shall be required for development of a new mobilehome park
and/or for modification or expansion of an existing mobilehome park. Whenever a
difference occurs between the standards of this section and an underlying zone
district, the standards of this section shall apply.
   (D)   Site Development Standards: The following standards shall apply to the
development of a mobilehome park. Additional requirements may be specified in
conditions of approval of a conditional use permit:
      1.   Minimum Area: A mobilehome park shall be no less than five (5) acres
in size and the minimum area of a mobilehome space shall be no less than three
thousand five hundred (3,500) square feet.
      2.   Density: No more than seven (7) mobilehome spaces per gross acre
shall be permitted. Rights of way of interior streets may be included in the
gross acre figure.
      3.   Coverage: The maximum permitted coverage of mobilehomes and all
necessary buildings and/or structures shall be seventy five percent (75%) of
the total area of the individual lot.
      4.   Yard Setbacks: Each mobilehome space shall comply with the following
minimum yard setbacks. There shall be no encroachments on any yard setback.
         (a)   Front yard: Ten feet (10').
         (b)   Rear yard: Five feet (5').
         (c)   Side yard: Five feet (5').
      5.   Access Drives: Parking within a required access drive is prohibited.
Width of access drives shall be determined by the public works director and
planning director.
      6.   Off Street Parking:
         (a)   Two (2) parking spaces, at least one of which shall be covered,
shall be provided on each mobilehome space. Each parking space shall be no less
than nine feet by nineteen feet (9'x19') in size. No parking space may be
located within the front yard setback area; tandem parking may be permitted.
         (b)   One guest parking space shall be provided for each four (4)
mobilehomes located within the development. Guest parking may be permitted on
interior street rights of way if the street has been designed to accommodate on
street parking.
      7.   Interior Streets:
         (a)   Private streets within a mobilehome park shall be a minimum of
twenty four feet (24') wide with no on street parking, a minimum of thirty two
feet (32') wide if parking is permitted on one side of the street, and a
minimum of forty feet (40') wide if parking is permitted on both sides of the
street.
         (b)   A roadway divided into separate one-way traffic lanes, by a
curbed divider, or similar device, shall be no less than fifteen feet (15') in
clear width on each side of the divider. Automobile parking shall be prohibited
on a divided roadway except where the unobstructed width of the roadway on the
side of the divider used for parking is increased by eight feet (8') for each
parking lane.
      8.   Open Space: A minimum of ten percent (10%) of the net mobilehome
park site shall be maintained for permanent open space and recreational
facilities. Open space areas shall not include any portion of a mobilehome
space for exterior perimeter landscaping. Usable open space may be occupied by
recreational facilities, such as recreation centers, swimming pools, golf
courses, tennis, basketball, volleyball, badminton courts, children's play
areas, trails and picnic areas.
      9.   Landscaping: All areas within a mobilehome park not used for
recreational facilities, streets, driveways, parking structures, building and
service areas shall be landscaped, shall be provided with an automated
irrigation system, and shall be permanently maintained in a manner approved by
the planning director.
      10.   Common Storage: A common storage area, equivalent in size to one
hundred (100) square feet for each mobilehome space, shall be provided within
the mobilehome park. The purpose of this storage is to store such items as
recreational vehicles, boats and trailers. The storage area shall be paved and
enclosed by a solid wall or durable view obscuring fence that is at least six
feet (6') in height.
      11.   Parking Of Recreational Vehicles, Trailers: Recreational vehicles,
boats and trailers shall not be permitted on individual mobilehome spaces,
interior streets or parking spaces designated for automobile parking.
      12.   Property Line Landscaping: Each mobilehome park shall have a
landscaped area, served by an automatic irrigation system, of no less than
fifteen feet (15') between the property line and the required perimeter wall if
adjoining a public or private street. Where a property line is not adjacent to
a public or private street, a perimeter wall shall be provided along said
property line.
      13.   Perimeter Wall: Except where otherwise required, a perimeter wall
shall be no less than six feet (6') in height. Where there is a difference in
elevation on opposite sides of a wall, the height shall be measured from the
exterior side of said wall. The following design elements shall be incorporated
into all perimeter walls:
         (a)   The wall shall consist of concrete, stone, bricks, tile or a
similar type of masonry material and shall be at least four inches (4") thick.
         (b)   Berms, if incorporated into the project, shall be constructed of
earthen materials, landscaped and provided with an automatic irrigation system.
      14.   Height Of Landscaping: Perimeter yard walls and landscaping shall
be limited to a height of forty inches (40") within five feet (5') on either
side of street openings for nonvehicular traffic and within ten feet (10') on
either side of street openings for vehicular traffic.
      15.   Improvement Of Adjoining Streets: Adjoining streets shall be
improved, as required by the public works director and city engineer, to
include all or any of the following: curb, gutters, street paving, sidewalks
and street lighting. This requirement shall include preparation of street
improvement plans and any other engineering deemed necessary by the public
works director and city engineer.
      16.   Underground Utility Lines: All utility lines, including water,
sewer, electric, gas, telephone and television distribution systems, shall be
placed underground.
      17.   Trash Storage Areas: Trash storage areas shall be provided as
follows:
         (a)   Every mobilehome space shall have individual curb site pick up;
or
         (b)   If common trash facilities are used, they shall be contained
within an enclosed masonry structure no less than six feet (6') in height.
      18.   Lighting: Adequate lighting shall be provided throughout a
mobilehome park to ensure for pedestrian and vehicular safety and to minimize
potential security problems.
      19.   Space Identification: Each mobilehome space shall be numbered,
lettered or identified in such a manner as to be clearly visible from the
street. A map and directory of the mobilehome park shall be installed near the
primary access drive. Said map and directory shall be equipped with a lighting
system adequate for nighttime visibility. (Ord. 805-14, 7-1-2014)
6-11-18: NOISE HAZARDS:
   (A)   Intent:
      1.   Public Health And Safety: Noise hazard provisions are intended to
protect public health and safety by identifying high noise areas in the city
and establishing regulations to mitigate those identified high noise levels.
      2.   Applicability: The noise hazard provisions shall be applied to those
areas where the projected community noise equivalency level (CNEL) is sixty
five (65) decibels (dBA) or greater.
   (B)   Development Standards:
      1.   Residential Land Use Areas: When a land use application or
development permit is proposed within the sixty five (65) dBA CNEL noise
contour and such a proposed use or noise associated with such a use is adjacent
to a residential zone district or residential use, the following standards
shall apply:
         (a)   Noise levels shall be identified. An acoustical report shall be
performed to identify noise impacts and any recommendation for noise
attenuation or other mitigation measures to be incorporated into the design
standards or conditions of approval as applicable.
         (b)   Interior noise levels in residences, dwelling units and
educational institutions shall not exceed forty five (45) dBA CNEL emanating
from sources outside the affected building.
         (c)   Exterior noise levels in residential land use areas shall not
exceed sixty five (65) dBA CNEL.
         (d)   Ability to mitigate exterior noises to the levels of sixty five
(65) dBA CNEL shall be considered by the reviewing authority when determining
the actual CNEL level with which the land uses must comply.
         (e)   In areas where noise exceeds the noise standard, steps shall be
taken to mitigate noise levels. An acoustical report identifying mitigation
measures shall be required and reviewed by environmental health services
department prior to issuance of any required development permits or approval of
land use applications.
      2.   Other Structures: All other structures shall be sound attenuated
against the combined input of all present and project exterior noise to not
exceed the following criteria:
 
Typical Uses                            12 Hour Equivalent Sound Level
                                        (Interior) dBA
Educational institutions, libraries,    45
churches
General office, reception               50
Retail stores, restaurants              55
Other areas for manufacturing assembly, 65
test, warehousing
 
      3.   Maximum Average Level: In addition, the average of the maximum
levels on the loudest of intrusive sounds occurring during a twenty four (24)
hour period shall not exceed sixty five (65) dBA interior. (Ord. 805-14, 7-1-
2014)
6-11-19: OFF SITE IMPROVEMENTS:
The city shall require, as a condition of approval, the dedication of
improvements, such as rights of way, easements, and the construction of
reasonable off site improvements when required by any city ordinance,
resolution or standard in conjunction with the parcels being developed or
created. (Ord. 805-14, 7-1-2014)
6-11-20: PARK AND RECREATION FACILITIES:
The city may, as established by the open space and conservation element of the
general plan and this title, require, as a condition of approval for
development projects, the payment of fees and/or dedication of land for the
provision of neighborhood or community parks and/or recreational facilities.
The general plan establishes the ultimate proportion of three (3) acres of
neighborhood park, community park and recreational facilities per one thousand
(1,000) persons residing in the city.
   (A)   Number Of Dwelling Units: For the purposes of this section, the number
of actual or potential dwelling units created by a subdivision or development
shall be as follows:
      1.   Number: One dwelling unit per unit approved.
      2.   Multi-Family: Where the number of units to be built in a multi-
family residential district is unknown, the maximum number of dwelling units
allowed under that zone classification shall be used.
      3.   Condominium Projects: For a condominium project, the number of
dwelling units created shall be the number of condominium units approved.
   (B)   Exemptions: This section shall not apply to the following
subdivisions:
      1.   Commercial, Industrial: Commercial or industrial developments.
      2.   Condominium, Stock Cooperatives: Condominium projects or stock
cooperatives, which consist of the subdivision of air space in an existing
apartment building that is more than five (5) years old and in which no new
dwelling units have been added by the subdivision.
      3.   Nonresidential: Subdivisions containing less than five (5) parcels
and not used for residential purposes; provided, however, that a condition of
approval shall be placed on those maps stating that if a building permit is
requested for the construction of a residential structure or structures on one
or more of the parcels within four (4) years after recordation of the
subdivision map, the fees shall be paid by the owner of each parcel as a
condition to the issuance of such permit.
   (C)   Dedication Requirements:
      1.   Statement Of Intent: Whenever a tentative tract map or other
residential project, which is subject to the provisions of this section, is
submitted to the planning department, the submittal shall be accompanied by a
written statement from the applicant stating whether the applicant intends to
dedicate land and/or pay fees in lieu thereof for park and recreational
purposes. If the applicant intends to dedicate land for this purpose, such area
shall be shown on the proposed tentative tract map or site plan. If fees are to
be paid, the conditions of approval shall specify the amount of fees to be paid
to the city and shall include the schedule for such payment. Dedications of
park land shall be reviewed and, if acceptable, approved by the city council.
      2.   Land Conveyance: Land shall be conveyed fee simple to the city by
grant deed, free and clear of all encumbrances, except for those encumbrances
which will not interfere with the use of the property for its intended purposes
and which the city agrees to accept. All deeds shall be delivered to the city
before the approval of the final map, or as required by the final conditions of
approval if no final map is required.
      3.   Deeds For Park Dedications: Deeds for park land dedications shall be
returned to the developer, project applicant or developer, as applicable, upon:
         (a)   Withdrawal of a final map, if a final map is required; or
         (b)   Withdrawal of the application for the development permit by the
applicant.
Deeds shall be returned under the circumstances described above within a
reasonable time period, not to exceed ninety (90) days from date of withdrawal
or disapproval, or as otherwise established by city ordinance.
      4.   Recording Of Deed: Deeds shall be recorded by the city upon
recordation of the final map or at the discretion of the city clerk if no final
map is recorded.
      5.   Title Insurance Policy: Deeds shall not be accepted for the
dedication of park land, unless accompanied by a title insurance policy,
secured by and at the expense of the grantor, in an amount equal to the land
dedication.
      6.   Payment Of Fees: When required, fees shall be paid at such time as
established by conditions of approval for a project. Payment may be required
prior to approval of a final map if the fees are to reimburse the city for
expenditures previously made or for an account which has been established
wherein the city has adopted a proposed construction schedule or plan.
      7.   Reconveyance: Whenever land has been conveyed or fees paid to the
city, as a condition of approval of a subdivision, and a final map for the
subject subdivision is not recorded, or, if recorded, the land is thereafter
reverted to acreage, the city may, at its option, either reconvey all land
dedicated or fees paid to be applied only to a new subdivision on the same
property, or make other mutually agreeable arrangements with the developer.
   (D)   Determination Of Land Dedication And Payment Of Fees: When conditions
of approval for a subdivision or other residential development, subject to the
provisions of this section, require dedication of land and/or payment of fees,
the conditions shall be based on the following:
      1.   Area Considerations: The natural features of the area, available
access, location, size and shape of the land available for dedication,
feasibility of dedication, location of existing and proposed park sites and
trailways, and the compatibility of the dedication with the general plan.
      2.   Insufficient Amount Of Land: Whenever the actual amount of land to
be dedicated is less than the amount of land required to be dedicated, the
developer shall pay fees for the value of any additional land that otherwise
would have been required to be dedicated.
      3.   Amount, Location: The amount and location of the land to be
dedicated or the fees to be paid shall bear a reasonable relationship to the
use of the park and recreational facilities by the future inhabitants of the
subdivision or other residential development.
      4.   Residential Density Consideration: The amount of land to be
dedicated or fees paid shall be based on the residential density of the
subdivision. The residential density shall be determined by multiplying the
number of dwelling units of the subdivision by the number of persons per unit
by the ratio which the number of acres of park land is required for each one
thousand (1,000) persons (i.e., .0025). The average number of persons per unit
shall be the most recent such average established by the department of finance
of the state of California or by Kern council of governments.
      5.   Improvements Required: Whenever land is dedicated pursuant to this
subsection, the developer may be required to provide the following for the
benefit of the land dedicated:
         (a)   Full street improvements and utility connections, including, but
not limited to, curbs, gutters, sidewalks, relocation or undergrounding of
existing public utility facilities, street paving, traffic control devices and
street trees.
         (b)   Block wall fencing, masonry wall or some other material approved
by the planning director.
         (c)   Improve drainage through the park site.
         (d)   Minimal physical improvements, not including recreational
facilities, building or equipment, which the public works director and city
engineer determines are necessary for acceptance of the land for park and
recreational purposes.
         (e)   Access to the park and recreational facilities from an existing
or proposed public street, unless the public works director and city engineer
determines that such access is unnecessary for maintenance of the park areas or
use of the park by residents of the area.
         (f)   Grading and drainage improvements, irrigation and planting
improvements as required by this title. All land is to be dedicated and
improvements to be made shall be approved by the public works director and city
engineer prior to final approval or disapproval of a subdivision or development
plan by the city.
         (g)   No grading, drainage, irrigation, planting, street or utility
improvements required under this section shall be eligible for a credit against
the land to be dedicated or fees paid under the provisions of this title.
         (h)   Whenever a fee is to be paid, in lieu of the dedication of land,
the following provisions shall apply:
            (1) The fee shall be established by resolution of the city council.
Said fee shall bear a reasonable relationship to the value of land which would
otherwise be required if land dedication were being made.
            (2) Whenever fees are paid pursuant to this section, the city shall
deposit them into a separate park fund. All fees paid may be used only for the
purpose of developing new or rehabilitating existing neighborhoods, community
parks or recreational facilities to serve the subdivision. The development of
new park and recreational facilities includes, but is not limited to, the
acquisition of land for neighborhood or community parks for recreational
purposes. Fees shall be expended for use only within the boundaries of the
city.
            (3) The developer may receive a credit against fees as follows:
               A.   A credit may be given against the requirements for the
payment of fees or the dedication of land required by this subsection for the
reasonable value of park and recreation improvements provided by the developer,
if approved and accepted by the city. The amount of the credit shall be
determined prior to the approval or conditional approval of a tentative map or
equivalent for other residential projects not involving a subdivision.
               B.   A credit may be given where private areas for park and
recreational purposes are provided in a subdivision or other residential
development, when such areas are for active recreational uses, are to be
privately owned, and are to be maintained in common by the future owners of the
development. Upon approval by the city, such areas may be credited against a
maximum fifty percent (50%) of the requirement of land dedication or fees.
Approval of such credits shall be based on a determination by the city that it
is in the public interest to allow such credits, and that all of the following
standards have been met or will be met prior to approval of the final map or
development permit:
                  i.Yards, court areas, setbacks and other open space areas,
which are required to be established and maintained by other provisions of this
title, are satisfactorily incorporated into the project design; and
                  ii.Evidence is provided that the private ownership and
maintenance of the area will be adequately provided for by record written
agreement, covenants or restrictions; and
                  iii.The use of the private area is restricted to park and
recreational purposes by an open space easement or other instrument in favor of
or enforceable by the city; and
                  iv.The proposed private area is reasonably adaptable for use
for park or recreational purposes, taking into consideration such factors as
size, shape, topography, geology, access and location; and
                  v.The private recreational areas can be utilized by project
residents in a manner which would reduce the need for public recreational
facilities in proportion to the requested park land credit.
         (i)   Land which has been dedicated and accepted by the city may be
sold by the city if a developer has not begun substantial construction within
two (2) years following recordation of a final map or final approval of a
project, other than a subdivision, provided the city determines that another
site would be more suitable for park or recreational facilities. In that
situation, the proceeds from the sale of the dedication land must be used for
the purchase or improvement of the more suitable site.
         (j)   All fees collected pursuant to this section shall be committed
by the city to develop park or recreation facilities to serve residents of the
subdivision or other residential development if a subdivision is not involved.
         (k)   The commitment required by Government Code section 66477(f) for
using fees collected by the city pursuant to this section shall be the
applicable annual budget of the city unless the city adopts a separate
schedule. (Ord. 805-14, 7-1-2014)
6-11-21: PARKING REQUIREMENTS:
Off street parking facilities shall be provided in accordance with the
provisions of chapter 14 of this title. (Ord. 805-14, 7-1-2014)
6-11-22: PERMITTED OUTDOOR USES:
   (A)   Uses Specified: When identified as a permitted use or a use permitted
subject to an approved conditional use permit in the zone district in which
outdoor uses are to be located, the following uses may be permitted outside of
an enclosed building, provided they are located entirely on private property.
No other uses shall be allowed unless permitted under the express provisions of
this section:
      1.   Drive-in and drive-through restaurants.
      2.   Patio tables, chairs, umbrellas and similar outdoor accessories used
in connection with a restaurant business, which does not impede pedestrian or
vehicular circulation.
      3.   Outdoor vending machines or displays, including weighing scales,
when accessory to a business is conducted within a building.
      4.   Lumber/material yard in conjunction with a principal retail store
and contractor supply yards, provided the outdoor storage is screened from view
from a public street as approved by the planning department.
      5.   Border materials, flowerpots, trellises and the like, provided they
are accessory to an established business.
      6.   Automobile dealership sales, leasing and rental display and
automobile storage lots.
      7.   Dealership sales, leasing and rental display of mobilehomes, farm
equipment, recreational vehicles, travel trailers, motorcycles and boats.
Additionally, outdoor storage of materials and products is permitted if said
storage of materials and products is completely screened from view from the
public right of way and from adjacent properties. Said screening shall be
subject to approval by the planning director and shall conform to the
provisions of section
6-2-9, "Site Plan Review/Design Review", of this title.
      8.   Temporary Christmas tree sales.
      9.   Recycling facilities.
      10.   Other uses determined by the planning commission to be similar to
and no more objectionable than those uses listed in this subsection in
accordance with the provision of section
6-1-9 of this title.
   (B)   Nonconforming Uses: An outdoor use, which is not specifically listed
as a permitted outdoor use in subsection (A) of this section, and which became
a nonconforming use after the effective date hereof, shall be removed or made
to conform to the provisions of this chapter:
      1.   Within thirty (30) days after the effective date hereof, the code
enforcement officer shall commence giving written notice to the owners of
nonconforming outdoor uses informing them of the nature of the nonconformity,
their responsibilities and the city's intent to enforce this subsection.
Following such notice, nonconforming outdoor uses shall be removed or made to
conform to the provisions of this section within one hundred eighty (180) days.
      2.   Enforcement of this subsection shall be in accordance with the
provisions of section
6-1-4 of this title and the general penalty imposed in enforcement of this
subsection shall be in accordance with the provision of section
6-1-5 of this title. (Ord. 805-14, 7-1-2014)
6-11-23: PUBLIC ACCESS TO OPEN SPACE AND RECREATION AREAS:
In any subdivision, or other development application, wherein any parcel of
land borders a public open space or recreational area, pedestrian access to
such areas shall be dedicated or permanently preserved. (Ord. 805-14, 7-1-2014)
6-11-24: REASONABLE ACCOMMODATION:
   (A)   Purpose And Intent: It is the policy of the city of Taft, pursuant to
the federal fair housing amendments act of 1988 and the California fair
employment and housing act (hereinafter "acts"), to provide individuals with
disabilities reasonable accommodation to rules, policies, practices and
procedures to ensure equal access to housing and facilitate the development of
housing for individuals with disabilities. This chapter establishes a procedure
for making requests for reasonable accommodation in land use, zoning and
building regulations, policies, practices and procedures to comply fully with
the intent and purpose of fair housing laws.
   (B)   Applicability: The city council finds and determines that this chapter
is intended to apply to those persons who are defined as disabled under the
acts:
      1.   An individual with a disability is someone who has a physical or
mental impairment that limits one or more major life activities; anyone who is
regarded as having such impairment; or anyone with a record of such impairment.
      2.   The federal fair housing amendment act of 1988 and California's fair
employment and housing act impose an affirmative duty on local governments to
make reasonable accommodation in their land use and zoning regulations and
practices when such accommodation may be necessary to afford individuals with
disabilities an equal opportunity to housing.
      3.   The Taft housing element identifies and sets forth a plan for
removing governmental constraints to housing for individuals with disabilities
by providing reasonable accommodation.
      4.   A fair housing reasonable accommodation procedure for individuals
with disabilities and developers of housing for individuals with disabilities
to seek relief in the application of land use, zoning and building regulations,
policies, practices and procedures furthers compliance with federal and state
fair housing laws and provides greater opportunities for the development of
critically needed housing for individuals with disabilities.
      5.   A request for reasonable accommodation may be made by any person
with a disability, the person's representative, or any entity, when the
application of a zoning law or other land use regulation, policy or practice is
perceived to act as a barrier to fair housing opportunities.
      6.   "Reasonable accommodation" in the land use and zoning context means
providing individuals with disabilities or developers of housing for people
with disabilities flexibility in the application of land use and zoning and
building regulations, policies, practices and procedures, or even waiving
certain requirements, when it is necessary to eliminate barriers to housing
opportunities.
   (C)   Authority:
      1.   Authority of review and approval for reasonable accommodation shall
be vested with the planning director.
      2.   If a request for reasonable accommodation is submitted for
concurrent review with another discretionary land use application, it shall be
determined by the authority making the final discretionary land use decision.
   (D)   Application: Request for reasonable accommodation shall be submitted
on an application form provided by the planning and community development
department or in the form of a letter and shall contain the following
information:
      1.   Application Materials:
         (a)   The applicant's name, address and primary contact telephone
number.
         (b)   The name and mailing address of the property owner(s).
         (c)   Address of the property for which the request is being made.
         (d)   The current use of the property.
         (e)   The basis for the claim that the individual is considered
disabled under the acts.
         (f)   The code provision, regulation or policy from which reasonable
accommodation is being requested.
         (g)   What specific accommodation is requested and why the
accommodation is necessary to make the specific property accessible to the
individual.
      2.   Additional Discretionary Actions: If the project for which the
request for reasonable accommodation is being made also requires some other
discretionary approval (including, but not limited to: conditional use permit,
site plan review, general plan amendment, variance, etc.), then the applicant
shall file the information required above for reasonable accommodation together
for concurrent review with the application for discretionary approval.
   (E)   Review Procedures And Findings:
      1.   The planning director shall make a written determination on the
request within thirty (30) days and either approve, approve with modifications
or deny a request for reasonable accommodation.
      2.   The planning director may request additional information from the
applicant if it is determined the application and request is incomplete. The
planning director shall specify in detail the items needed to make a
determination consistent with fair housing laws. The thirty (30) day period to
issue a decision is stayed until the applicant responds to the request.
      3.   The determination on whether to approve, approve with modifications
or deny a request for reasonable accommodation made by the authority
responsible for reviewing the discretionary land use application shall be made
at the time of the discretionary land use decision.
      4.   The written decision to approve, approve with modifications or deny
a request for reasonable accommodation shall be based on consideration of the
following factors:
         (a)   Whether the housing, which is the subject of the request, will
be used by a disabled individual.
         (b)   Whether the requested accommodation is necessary to make
specific housing available to a disabled individual.
         (c)   Whether the requested accommodation would impose an undue
financial or administrative burden on the city.
         (d)   Whether the requested accommodation would require a fundamental
alteration in the nature of a city land use, zoning and building regulations,
policies, practices and procedures.
         (e)   Potential impact on surrounding uses.
         (f)   Physical attributes of the property and structures.
         (g)   Alternative accommodations which may provide an equivalent level
of benefit.
      5.   In granting a request for reasonable accommodation the planning
director or other reviewing authority may impose any conditions of approval
deemed reasonable and necessary to ensure that the accommodation complies with
the findings.
      6.   While a request for reasonable accommodation is pending, all laws
and regulations otherwise applicable to the property that is the subject of the
request shall remain in full force and effect.
   (F)   Written Decision On The Request For Reasonable Accommodation:
      1.   The written decision on the request for reasonable accommodation
shall explain in detail the basis of the decision, including the planning
director's or other reviewing authority's findings.
      2.   If the reviewing authority fails to render a written decision on the
request for reasonable accommodation within the thirty (30) day time period the
request shall be deemed approved.
   (G)   Appeals:
      1.   A determination by the reviewing authority to approve, approve with
modifications or deny a request for reasonable accommodation may be appealed,
pursuant to section
6-2-20 of this title.
      2.   If an individual needs assistance in filing an appeal on the
decision, the city shall provide assistance to ensure that the appeals process
is accessible. (Ord. 823-16, 9-20-2016; amd. Ord. 849-22, 12-6-2022)
6-11-25: RESERVATION OF LANDS FOR PUBLIC FACILITIES:
   (A)   Conditions: The city may require that areas of real property within a
subdivision or other residential, commercial or industrial development be
reserved for parks and recreational facilities, fire stations, libraries or
other public uses, such as, but not limited to, domestic water and sewage
facilities subject to the following conditions:
      1.   The proposed use of the land reserved is in accordance with general
plan policies and standards, any adopted specific plans and all provisions of
this title.
      2.   The reserved area is of such size and shape as to permit the balance
of the property, within which the reservation is located, to be developed in an
orderly and efficient manner.
      3.   The amount of land reserved will not make development of the
remaining land held by the developer economically unfeasible.
   (B)   Agreement: The city shall, at the time of approval of a final map,
parcel map or approval of other residential, commercial or industrial
development, enter into a binding agreement to acquire such reserved area
within two (2) years after the completion and acceptance of all improvements,
unless such period of time is extended by mutual agreement. The purchase price
shall be the market value thereof at the time of filing the tentative map, or
other development request, plus the taxes against such reserved area from the
date of the reservation and any other costs incurred by the developer in the
maintenance of such reserved area, including interest costs incurred on any
loan covering such reserved area. If the city fails to enter into such a
binding agreement, the requirement of reservation shall automatically
terminate. (Ord. 805-14, 7-1-2014; amd. Ord. 823-16, 9-20-2016)
6-11-26: REFLECTIVE MATERIAL:
Roofing materials which will be visible to the public from adjacent streets or
property shall be of a nonreflective composition. (Ord. 805-14, 7-1-2014; amd.
Ord. 823-16, 9-20-2016)
6-11-27: RELOCATED STRUCTURES:
Structures may be relocated from one parcel to another, subject to the
following requirements:
   (A)   Compliance Required: Upon relocation of a structure to a new parcel,
the parcel, including the relocated structure, shall comply with all
regulations of this title, including all development standards, regulations and
restrictions for the use and the district in which the structure is to be
relocated, including, but not limited by this reference to, building height,
setback, parcel coverage and unit density requirements.
   (B)   Standards: The structure proposed to be moved or relocated shall be
placed and, if necessary reconstructed, in the district within which it is to
be located under all existing standards, regulations and restrictions.
   (C)   Time Limits: Construction of residential structures proposed to be
moved or replaced shall commence within thirty (30) days, and shall be
completed within three hundred sixty five (365) days, of the date the structure
is relocated onto the property.
   (D)   Notice Required: Prior to issuance of a building permit, a "notice of
intent to relocate" form, approved by the building official, shall be posted on
the property proposed to contain the relocated structure for a minimum period
of one week. (Ord. 805-14, 7-1-2014; amd. Ord. 823-16, 9-20-2016)
6-11-28: RIGHT TO FARM PROVISIONS:
   (A)   Intent: It is the intent of this section to conserve, protect and
encourage the development, improvement and continued viability of agricultural
land and industries for the long term production of food and other agricultural
products; support the economic well being of the city residents; balance the
rights of farmers to produce food and other agricultural products with the
rights of nonfarmers who own, occupy or use land within or adjacent to
agricultural areas; and reduce the loss to the city of its agricultural
resources by limiting the circumstances under which agricultural operations may
be deemed to constitute a nuisance.
   (B)   Applicability: All agricultural activity, operations, facilities or
appurtenances thereof shall comply with the provisions of this section and with
the applicable provisions of the zone district in which the land use is
located.
   (C)   Protection From Nuisance:
      1.   Standards: No agricultural activity, operation, facility or
appurtenances thereof shall be, or become a nuisance if the following standards
are met:
         (a)   The agricultural use is conducted or maintained for commercial
purposes; and
         (b)   The agricultural use is conducted in a manner consistent with
proper and accepted customs and standards as established and followed by
similar agricultural operations in the same locality; and
         (c)   The agricultural use has been in operation for more than three
(3) years and was not a nuisance at the time it began.
      2.   Government Code Applicability: This section shall not invalidate any
provision contained in the Government Code of the state of California
associated with agricultural activities, operation, facility or appurtenances
thereof, constitutes a nuisance, public or private, as specifically defined or
described in any such provision.
      3.   Civil Code Applicability: This section is not to be construed to
modify or abridge state law, as set out in the California Civil Code relative
to nuisances, but rather to be utilized in the interpretation and enforcement
of the provisions of city ordinances and regulations.
   (D)   Notice To Buyers Of Land: The planning director shall cause the
following notice to be included on any proposed land division that lies partly
or wholly within three hundred feet (300') of any land zoned for primarily
agricultural purposes:
      1.   Content Of Notice:
Lot(s) no.      , as shown on this map, is (are) located partly or wholly
within, or within three hundred feet (300') of land zoned primarily for
agricultural purposes by the city of Taft. It is the declared policy of the
city of Taft that no agricultural activity, operation, facility or
appurtenances thereof, conducted or maintained for commercial purposes within
the city of Taft and conducted in a manner consistent with proper and accepted
customs and standards as established and followed by similar agricultural
operations in the same locality shall be or become a nuisance, private or
public, due to any changed condition in or about the locality, after the same
has been in operation for more than three (3) years, if it was not a nuisance
at the time it began. The term "agricultural activity, operation, facility or
appurtenances thereof" includes, but is not limited to: the cultivation and
tillage of the soil, dairying, the production, cultivation, growing and
harvesting of any agricultural commodity, including apiculture, horticulture,
the raising of livestock, fur bearing animals, fish or poultry; and any
practices performed by a farmer or on a farm as incident to or in conjunction
with such farming operations, including preparation for market, delivery to
storage or to market, or to carriers for transportation to market.
      2.   Notice Included In Land Division Proposal: The public works director
and city engineer shall cause the notice described in subsection (D)1 of this
section to be included on any final land division proposed for recordation that
lies partly or wholly within, or within three hundred feet (300') of any land
zoned for agricultural purposes. (Ord. 805-14, 7-1-2014; amd. Ord. 823-16, 9-
20-2016)
6-11-29: SCENIC RESOURCES:
   (A)   Intent: The scenic resources regulations are intended to establish
development standards which protect, preserve and enhance the aesthetic
resources of the city by incorporating design considerations that minimize
interference with the preservation of unique natural resources, roadside views
and scenic corridors. It is also the intent of the scenic resources regulations
to implement state and federal programs and regulations regarding scenic
highway routes.
   (B)   Location Requirements: The scenic resources regulations may be applied
to the following areas:
Areas with unique views of mountain and valley areas or any other aesthetic
natural land formations.
   (C)   Development Standards: When a land is proposed within a scenic area,
the following criteria shall be used to evaluate the project compliance with
the intent of the district:
      1.   Building And Structure Placement: The building and structure
placement shall be compatible with and shall not detract from the visual
setting or obstruct significant views.
      2.   Setbacks: Intensive land development proposals, including, but not
limited to, residential facilities, commercial and industrial activities shall
be designed to blend into the natural landscape and maximize visual attributes
of the natural vegetation and terrain. The design of such development proposals
shall also provide for maintenance of a natural open space parallel to the
right of way. This represents the visible land area outside the highway right
of way which may be described as the "view from the road".
      3.   Access Drives: Right of way access drives shall be minimized.
Developments involving concentrations of commercial activities shall be
designated to function as an integral unit with common parking and right of way
access drives when feasible.
      4.   Roads, Pedestrian Walkways, Parking And Storage Areas: Large scale
development shall restrict the number of access points by providing common
access roads. Parking and outside storage areas shall be screened from view, to
the maximum extent feasible, from adjacent scenic or recreational resources by
placement of buildings and structures, or by landscaping and plantings.
      5.   Aboveground Utilities: Utilities shall be constructed and routed
underground, except in those situations where natural features prevent the
underground routing or where safety considerations necessitate aboveground
construction and routing. Aboveground utilities shall be constructed and routed
to minimize detrimental effects on the visual setting of the designated area.
Where practical, aboveground utilities shall be screened from view from
adjacent scenic or recreational resources by placement of buildings and
structures.
      6.   Grading: The alteration of the natural topography of the site shall
be minimized and shall, to the extent feasible and practical, avoid detrimental
effects to the visual setting of the designated area and the existing natural
drainage system.
      7.   Storage Areas: Outside storage areas associated with commercial or
industrial activities shall be completely screened, in a manner approved by the
planning department, from view from the right of way with landscaping and
plantings. (Ord. 805-14, 7-1-2014; amd. Ord. 823-16, 9-20-2016)
6-11-30: SCREENING REQUIREMENTS:
   (A)   Commercial And Industrial Uses:
      1.   Wherever any building or structure is erected or enlarged on any
property which is zoned for commercial or industrial purposes and abuts a
residentially zoned parcel, screening shall be erected and maintained along the
property lines abutting the residential zones.
      2.   The screening between commercial or industrial zoned districts and
adjacent existing or planned residential uses shall consist of a decorative
masonry wall sufficient for sound attenuation, and shall have a minimum height
of six feet (6') on the commercial side of the wall, except for front yard or
street side yard setback area of the existing or planned residential uses,
where it will be reduced to forty inches (40") in height.
   (B)   Storage Areas: Where permitted, all outdoor storage of materials,
wares, crates, bottles or similar items necessary to, or part of, a permitted
land use within an industrial, commercial or special district shall be screened
from view on at least three (3) sides by a solid opaque impact resistant wall
not less than five feet (5') in height, and on the fourth side by a solid
opaque resistant gate not less than five feet (5') in height or, alternatively,
such other material or design approved by the planning director.
   (C)   Refuse Storage Areas: Outdoor trash receptacles for multiple-family
and nonresidential uses shall be of sufficient size to accommodate the trash
generated by the uses on the parcels being served. All outdoor storage of
trash, garbage, refuse and other items or material intended for discarding or
collection shall be screened from public view on at least three (3) sides by a
solid decorative wall not less than five feet (5') in height or, alternatively,
such other material or design approved by the planning director. The fourth
side shall contain an opaque gate maintained in working order and shall remain
closed except when in use. (Ord. 805-14, 7-1-2014; amd. Ord. 823-16, 9-20-2016)
6-11-31: SETBACK REQUIREMENTS:
Unless otherwise specified in this chapter, chapter 12, "Specific Use
Development Standards", or chapter 13, "Performance Standards", of this title,
front, side and rear setbacks for structures shall be maintained in accordance
with the regulations of the district within which the structure is located.
(Ord. 805-14, 7-1-2014; amd. Ord. 823-16, 9-20-2016)
6-11-32: SIGNS:
Unless otherwise specified within chapter 13, "Performance Standards", of this
title, signs shall comply with the provisions of chapter 15, "Sign
Regulations", of this title. (Ord. 805-14, 7-1-2014; amd. Ord. 823-16, 9-20-
2016)
6-11-33: SOIL REPORTS:
   (A)   Preliminary Report: A preliminary soils report, prepared by a civil
engineer registered in the state of California, based upon adequate test
borings, shall be required for every subdivision for which a final tract map is
required, and may be required by the public works director and city engineer
for other development applications. The preliminary soils report requirement
may be waived if the public works director and city engineer finds that
sufficient knowledge exists as to the quality of the soils located on the
development site.
   (B)   Soils Investigation: In the event the preliminary soils report
indicates the presence of critically expansive soils or other soils problems
which, if not corrected, could lead to structural defects, a soils
investigation of each lot, parcel or building site in the subdivision or
development may be required. Such soils reports must be performed by a civil
engineer, registered in the state of California, who shall recommend a
corrective action likely to prevent structural damage to each structure
proposed to be constructed in the area where such an identified soils problem
exists.
   (C)   Approval Conditions: The subdivision, or other type of development, or
any portion thereof, where soil problems exist, may be approved by the public
works director and city engineer if it is determined that a recommended action
would prevent an occurrence of damage to any structure to be constructed and
that the issuance of a building permit be subject to the inclusion of such
recommended actions for the construction of each structure involved.
   (D)   Report Maintained: All soils reports prepared specifically for
subdivisions shall be kept on file for public inspection by the city, pursuant
to the provisions of section 66434.5 of the subdivision map act.
   (E)   Certification: Final soils reports shall certify that all soils meet
engineering requirements prior to issuance of any building permit. (Ord. 805-
14, 7-1-2014; amd. Ord. 823-16, 9-20-2016)
6-11-34: SOLAR ENERGY DESIGN:
   (A)   Purpose And Intent: These provisions are intended to incorporate, to
the extent feasible, passive heating and cooling opportunities into the design
or modifications of residential, commercial and industrial developments. They
are further intended to ensure that solar energy systems in residential,
commercial and industrial areas do not detract from the appearance of the
surrounding neighborhood. Furthermore, the purpose of these provisions is to
promote and encourage the use of small residential rooftop solar energy systems
and include standards for timely and cost effective administrative reviews of
building permit applications for these systems consistent with state law.
   (B)   Authority: Authority for approval of building permits shall be vested
in the building official or designee.
   (C)   Application: An application for a building permit for a solar energy
system shall be filed with the building department in a manner prescribed by
the building official.
   (D)   Administrative And Expedited Reviews:
      1.   Administrative Review: All proposed solar energy design systems
shall be reviewed and approved administratively by the building official or
their designee:
         (a)   Review of the application shall be limited to the building
official's review that the system meets health and safety requirements
consistent with local, state and federal law.
         (b)   Enforcement of local requirements shall be limited to those that
are necessary to ensure the solar energy system will not have an adverse impact
on the public health and safety.
         (c)   If findings can be made that the proposed solar energy system
could have an adverse impact on public health and safety, the building official
may require the application of a site plan review or other discretionary permit
review.
      2.   Expedited Review; Small Residential Rooftop Systems: A solar energy
system shall be eligible for an expedited review if:
         (a)   The system is a small residential rooftop solar energy system.
         (b)   The small residential rooftop solar energy system is no larger
than ten (10) kilowatts alternating current nameplate rating or thirty (30)
kilowatts thermal.
         (c)   The solar energy system is installed on only a single- family
dwelling or on a duplex family dwelling.
         (d)   The solar panel or module array does not exceed the maximum
height limit of the zone district of the subject property.
         (e)   The building permit application for an expedited review is
complete in that the application contains all the items listed on the checklist
for determining a small residential rooftop solar energy system is eligible for
the expedited review.
Small residential rooftop solar energy systems eligible for an expedited review
may submit an electronic copy of the building permit application, with an
electronic signature, and required application materials via the identified e-
mail address indicated on the city's website and on the building permit
application.
   (E)   Permit Fees: Permit fees for rooftop solar energy systems shall not
exceed five hundred dollars ($500.00), plus fifteen dollars ($15.00) per
kilowatt for each kilowatt above fifteen (15) kW for residential rooftop solar
energy systems, and one thousand dollars ($1,000.00), plus seven dollars
($7.00) per kilowatt for each kilowatt between fifty one (51) kW and two
hundred fifty (250) kW, plus five dollars ($5.00) for each kilowatt above two
hundred fifty (250) kW for commercial rooftop solar energy systems, consistent
with state law.
   (F)   Inspections:
      1.   Small residential rooftop solar energy systems eligible for
expedited review shall only require one inspection, which will be done in a
timely manner and may include a consolidated inspection. Consistent with state
law, if a small residential rooftop solar energy system fails inspection, a
subsequent inspection is authorized, however, the subsequent inspection is no
longer subject to expedited requirements.
      2.   Ineligible solar energy systems are subject to current inspection
scheduling in place by the building department, per the building official.
   (G)   Design Requirements:
      1.   Active Solar Design: Notwithstanding any provisions included in this
title related to screening roof mounted equipment, the following standards
shall apply to the design of all solar energy systems:
         (a)   To the extent practical, roof mounted solar collectors shall be
placed in the location least visible from a public right of way without
significantly reducing the operating efficiency of the collectors. Wall mounted
and ground mounted solar collectors shall be screened from public view at
street level.
         (b)   When feasible, collectors shall be integrated into the design of
a building. Structural support for the collectors shall be screened in a manner
that is compatible with the design of the building.
         (c)   Appurtenant equipment, including plumbing and related fixtures,
shall be installed in an attic or basement, where feasible.
         (d)   Large accessory fixtures which must be exposed (e.g., storage
tanks) shall be screened, where possible, through architectural features that
harmonize with other design elements of the structure.
         (e)   Storage tanks shall not be located in any required front or side
yards, except as permitted by subsection
6-11-3(A)3 of this chapter, and they shall be screened from view from any
public right of way.
         (f)   Exterior collector surfaces shall have a matte finish, and shall
be color coordinated to harmonize with roof materials or other dominant colors
of the structure.
         (g)   Any pool or spa facilities, other than those intended for a
single-family detached residence, shall be provided with a solar cover or solar
water heating system.
      2.   Passive Solar Design In Accordance With Section 66473.1 Of
Subdivision Map Act:
         (a)   The design of a subdivision for which a tentative map is
required pursuant to section 66426 of the subdivision map act, or other
development, shall provide, to the extent feasible, for future passive or
natural heating or cooling opportunities in the development. Examples of
passive or natural heating opportunities in subdivision design, or within other
development include, but are not limited to:
            (1) Design of lot size and configuration to permit orientation of
structures in an east-west alignment for southern exposure.
            (2) Design of lot size and configuration to permit orientation of a
structure to take advantage of shade or prevailing breezes.
         (b)   In providing for future passive or natural heating or cooling
opportunities in the design of a subdivision or within other residential,
commercial or industrial development for which a subdivision is not involved,
consideration shall be given to local climate, contour, configuration of the
parcel to be developed, and to other design improvement requirements. However,
such provisions shall not result in reducing allowable densities or the
applicable planning and zoning regulations in force at the time the tentative
map or other development is filed.
         (c)   The requirements of this section do not apply to condominium
projects which consist of the subdivision of air space in an existing building
when no new structures are added. (Ord. 809-15, 3-3-2015; amd. Ord. 823-16, 9-
20-2016)
6-11-35: SOLID WASTE REUSE AND RECYCLING REGULATIONS:
   (A)   Purpose And Intent:
      1.   Since January 2000, California cities must divert fifty percent
(50%) of all solid waste through source reduction, recycling and composting
activities, pursuant to Public Resources Code chapter 18, part 3 of division 30
(California solid waste reuse and recycling access act of 1991). Diverting
fifty percent (50%) of all solid waste requires participation by residential,
commercial, industrial and public sectors.
      2.   The lack of adequate areas for collecting and loading recyclable
materials that are compatible with surrounding land uses is a significant
impediment to diverting solid waste and constitutes an urgent need for state
and local agencies to address access to solid waste for source reduction,
recycling and composting activities. This section has been developed to meet
that need.
   (B)   General Requirements:
      1.   New Development Project Requirements: Any new development project
for which an application for a building permit is submitted shall include
adequate, accessible and convenient areas for collecting and loading recyclable
materials.
      2.   Areas Of Improvement Requirements: Any improvements for areas of a
public facility used for collecting and loading solid waste shall include
adequate, accessible and convenient areas for collecting and loading recyclable
materials.
      3.   Existing Projects For Single Alteration: Any existing development
project for which an application for a building permit is submitted for a
single alteration which is subsequently performed that adds thirty percent
(30%) or more to the existing floor area of the development project shall
provide adequate, accessible and convenient areas for collecting and loading
recyclable materials.
      4.   Existing Projects For Multiple Alterations: Any existing development
project for which an application for a building permit is submitted for
multiple alterations which are conducted within a twelve (12) month period
which collectively add thirty percent (30%) or more to the existing floor areas
of the development project shall provide adequate, accessible and convenient
areas for collecting and loading recyclable materials.
      5.   Multiple Applications For Multiple Projects: Any existing
development project for which multiple applications for building permits are
submitted for multiple alterations that are subsequently performed, and which
collectively add thirty percent (30%) or more to the existing floor area of the
development project, shall provide adequate, accessible and convenient areas
for collecting and loading recyclable materials.
      6.   Single Alteration By Tenant: Any existing development project
occupied by multiple tenants, of whom one submits an application for a building
permit for a single alteration which is subsequently performed that adds thirty
percent (30%) or more to the existing floor area of that portion of the
development project, which said tenant leases, shall provide adequate,
accessible and convenient areas for collecting and loading recyclable
materials. Such recycling areas shall, at a minimum, be sufficient in capacity,
number and distribution to serve that portion of the development project which
said tenant leases.
      7.   Multiple Alterations By Tenant: Any existing development project
occupied by multiple tenants, one of whom submits an application for a building
permit for multiple alterations that are conducted within a twelve (12) month
period which collectively adds thirty percent (30%) or more to the existing
floor area of that portion of the development project which said tenant leases,
shall provide adequate, accessible and convenient areas for collecting and
loading recyclable materials. Such recycling areas shall, at a minimum, be
sufficient in capacity, number and distribution to serve that portion of the
development project which said tenant leases.
      8.   Multiple Alterations By Multiple Tenants: Any existing development
project occupied by multiple tenants, one of whom submits multiple applications
for building permits for multiple alterations which are subsequently performed,
that portion of the development project which said tenant leases, shall provide
adequate, accessible and convenient areas for collecting and loading recyclable
materials. Such recycling areas shall, at a minimum, be sufficient in capacity,
number and distribution to serve that portion of the development project which
said tenant leases.
      9.   Responsibility For Costs: Any costs associated with adding recycling
space to existing development projects shall be the responsibility of the party
or parties who are responsible for financing the alterations.
   (C)   Guidelines For All Development Projects:
      1.   Compatibility: Recycling areas should be designed to be
architecturally compatible with nearby structures and with the existing
topography and vegetation, in accordance with such standards.
      2.   Security: The design and construction of recycling areas shall not
prevent security of any recyclable materials placed therein.
      3.   Conflicts: The design, construction and location of recycling areas
shall not be in conflict with any applicable federal, state or local laws
relating to fire, building, access, transportation, circulation or safety.
      4.   Protection From Environmental Conditions: Recycling areas or bins
and/or containers placed therein, must provide protection against adverse
environmental conditions, such as rain, which might render the collected
materials unmarketable.
      5.   Driveways, Access Areas: Driveways and/or travel aisles shall, at a
minimum, conform to local building code requirements for garbage collection
access and clearance. In the absence of such building code requirements,
driveways and/or travel aisles should provide unobstructed access for
collection vehicles and personnel.
      6.   Signage: A sign clearly identifying all recycling and solid waste
collection and loading areas and the materials accepted therein shall be posted
adjacent to all points of direct access to the recycling areas.
      7.   Protection From Adverse Impacts: Developments and transportation
corridors adjacent to recycling areas shall be adequately protected for any
adverse impacts, such as noise, odor, vectors or glare through measures
including, but not limited to, maintaining adequate separation, fencing and
landscaping.
   (D)   Additional Guidelines For Single Tenant Development Projects:
      1.   Area: Areas for recycling shall be adequate in capacity, number and
distribution to serve the development project.
      2.   Dimensions: Dimensions of the recycling area shall accommodate
receptacles sufficient to meet the recycling needs of the development project.
      3.   Number: An adequate number of bins or containers to allow for the
collection and loading of recyclable materials generated by the development
project should be located within the recycling areas.
   (E)   Additional Guidelines For Multiple Tenant Development Projects:
      1.   Area: Recycling areas shall, at a minimum, be sufficient in
capacity, number and distribution to serve that portion of the development
project by the tenants who submitted an application or applications resulting
in the need to provide recycling areas.
      2.   Dimensions: Dimensions or recycling areas shall accommodate
receptacles sufficient to meet the recycling needs of that portion of the
development project by the tenants who submitted an application or applications
resulting in the need to provide recycling areas.
      3.   Number: An adequate number of bins or containers to allow for the
collection and loading of recyclable materials generated by the portion of the
development project by the tenants who submitted an application or applications
resulting in the need to provide recycling area should be located within the
recycling area.
   (F)   Location:
      1.   Prohibited Areas: Recycling areas shall not be located in any area
required to be constructed or maintained as unencumbered, according to any
applicable federal, state or local laws relating to fire, access, building,
transportation, circulation or safety.
      2.   Convenience: Any and all recycling areas shall be located so they
are at least as convenient to those persons who deposit, collect and load the
recyclable materials placed therein as the location where the solid waste is
collected and loaded. Whenever feasible, areas for collecting and loading
recyclable materials shall be adjacent to the solid waste collection areas.
(Ord. 805-14, 7-1-2014; amd. Ord. 823-16, 9-20-2016)
6-11-36: STORAGE:
The following outdoor storage regulations shall apply in addition to any other
standards and requirements of the various districts established by this title:
   (A)   Prohibited Activities; Exception: No sales, rentals, long term
storage, repair work, dismantling or servicing of any motor vehicle, trailer,
airplane, boat, loose rubbish, garbage, junk or building materials shall be
permitted in any front or street side yard of any property, except where such
property is an automobile dealership or an automobile rental lot, in which case
long term storage for purpose of sale or rental shall be permitted. Repair or
servicing of any motor vehicle may occur; provided, that the work continues for
a period not to exceed seventy two (72) hours. "Long term storage" shall mean
storage for a period of seventy two (72) or more consecutive hours.
   (B)   Residential Districts: In any residential district, no portion of any
vacant or undeveloped parcel, or a parcel where no main building exists, shall
be used for storage of the items listed above.
   (C)   Building Materials: Building materials for use on the same parcel or
building site may be stored on the parcel or building site during the time that
a valid building permit is in effect for construction on the premises. (Ord.
805-14, 7-1-2014; amd. Ord. 823-16, 9-20-2016)
6-11-37: STREET LIGHTING AND TREE PLANTING:
   (A)   Street Lighting:
      1.   Required; Placement: The provision of streetlights shall be required
for all tentative tract maps and other residential, commercial or industrial
developments. Streetlights shall be placed in accordance with improvement
standards approved by city council.
      2.   Construction; Liability For Charges:
         (a)   At a minimum, a developer of a residential, commercial or
industrial development shall construct or enter into an agreement to construct,
prior to acceptance and approval of a final map or equivalent approval if a
subdivision is not involved, a street lighting system of a utility owned
ornamental system consisting of standard ornamental electroliers customarily
furnished by the utility or other design approved by the utility and the public
works director; or
         (b)   The developer of a residential, commercial or industrial
development shall be liable for and shall pay charges of such utility
attributable to such installation.
      3.   Underground Installation; Plans And Specifications: Installation of
street lighting shall be underground and shall be in accordance with plans and
specifications of or as approved by the serving utility and the public works
director and city engineer.
   (B)   Front Yard Tree Planting:
      1.   Number; Standards: All land divisions governed by this section, or
by title X of this code, shall be required to plant a minimum of one tree per
parcel frontage prior to final building inspection based on the following
standards:
         (a)   Trees shall be chosen from the approved city street tree list
for trees, shrubs and ground covers. Each choice should reflect consideration
of the geographic zone involved.
         (b)   Trees shall be located a minimum of ten feet (10') from
driveways and from any public sidewalk.
         (c)   For corner lots, street trees shall be required on both street
frontages, provided such planting does not interfere with sight distances and
setbacks.
         (d)   Exceptions to street tree planting may be permitted by the
public works director in cul-de-sacs and on those lots where proper spacing is
not possible. Requests for exception shall be made, in writing, to the planning
director.
      2.   Location On Site Plan: The proposed location of all street trees
shall be indicated on the site plans submitted to the public works director for
comment and final approval.
      3.   Root Barriers: All trees planted in the public right of way or
closer than fifteen feet (15') to a public sidewalk, curb and gutter, and
street shall require installation of a root barrier as approved by the public
works director. (Ord. 805-14, 7-1-2014; amd. Ord. 823-16, 9-20-2016)
6-11-38: TRANSPORTATION CONTROL MEASURES:
   (A)   Intent: It is the intent of this section, along with other provisions
of this title, to implement the transportation control measures called for in
both the latest adopted San Joaquin air quality management plan and the latest
adopted federal attainment plan for carbon monoxide and greenhouse gases as
defined by the environmental protection agency and the state of California.
   (B)   On Site Pedestrian Walkways And Bicycle Pathways: All new
nonresidential and multi-family developments of ten (10) or more units shall
provide on site walkways and bicycle pathways connecting each building to
adjacent public streets where feasible.
   (C)   Passenger Loading Facilities: All new nonresidential and multiple-
family developments of ten (10) or more units with at least one hundred (100)
parking spaces shall provide a minimum of one passenger loading area equivalent
to five (5) parking spaces in close proximity to the building entrances and
located to avoid interference with on site vehicle circulation.
   (D)   Vanpool Parking Facilities: All new nonresidential developments with a
minimum of one hundred (100) spaces shall provide preferential vanpool parking
facilities for a minimum of one space, which has a minimum vertical clearance
of nine feet (9'), for each one hundred (100) parking spaces.
   (E)   Transit Improvements: All new nonresidential and multiple-family
developments, along existing or planned transit routes, shall provide transit
improvements, such as bus pullouts, bus pads and bus shelters, if determined
necessary in consultation with Taft area transit, or other locally operated
transit systems.
   (F)   Reduced Parking Requirements: Provisions shall be made by the planning
commission for reduction of on site parking space requirements for all new
nonresidential developments on a case by case basis when such developments are
linked to other actions which reduce vehicle trips.
   (G)   Countrywide Bicycle Plan: The city shall consider participation in
implementation of the countrywide bicycle plan upon its adoption. (Ord. 805-14,
7-1-2014; amd. Ord. 823-16, 9-20-2016)
6-11-39: UNDERGROUND UTILITIES:
   (A)   Requirement For Underground Installation Of Utility Lines:
      1.   All permits dealing with utility lines shall be consistent with all
applicable state laws and regulations.
      2.   Except as provided in this title, the following utility lines,
existing and proposed, shall be installed underground in conjunction with new
development projects. Said undergrounding of utility lines shall include, but
not be limited to, all new electrical distribution lines, existing electrical
distribution lines of thirty four thousand five hundred (34,500) volts or less,
telephone, streetlight service lines, cable television and similar service
wires or cable which:
         (a)   Provides new service to the property being developed;
         (b)   Are existing and located within the boundaries of the property
being developed;
         (c)   Are existing between property line and the centerline of the
peripheral streets of the property being developed; or
         (d)   Are along the project perimeter boundary.
   (B)   Responsibility For Compliance: Arrangements, including payment for all
costs for undergrounding utility lines, shall be made by the developer or owner
of the property to be developed with the serving utility company.
Undergrounding of utility lines and structures may be done by the developer, or
owner, with permission from the serving utility.
   (C)   Timing Of Compliance: Undergrounding shall be completed:
      1.   Prior to the inspection approval of related street improvements; or
      2.   Prior to building occupancy, if no related street improvements are
required.
   (D)   General Exceptions: The following exceptions shall apply:
      1.   Temporary overhead utility lines, including necessary service poles,
wires and cables, may be permitted and installed to the satisfaction of the
building official for the period during which authorized construction is
continuing for which valid building permits have been issued. All temporary
overhead utility lines shall be removed prior to the issuance of the
certificate of occupancy.
      2.   Appurtenances and associated equipment, including, but not limited
to, surface mounted transformers, pedestal mounted terminal boxes and meter
cabinets, and concealed ducts in an underground system, may be placed above
ground and installed to the satisfaction of the public works director and city
engineer.
      3.   In established residential areas where overhead utility lines
presently exist along or near lot lines and where an infill single-family
dwelling unit is being developed on a single lot, or where an infill two-family
or duplex dwelling unit is being developed on a single lot, overhead utility
lines may be permitted and installed to the satisfaction of the public works
director and city engineer.
   (E)   Exceptions Approved By Public Works Director And City Engineer: The
following further exceptions may apply, subject in each case to the specific
written approval of the public works director and city engineer, and then only
on the basis of a formal request detailing the reasons therefor:
      1.   On developments consisting of three (3) lots or less that do not in
total exceed one hundred fifty feet (150') of frontage for residential,
commercial, office professional, business park, public/institutional or
industrial development, the planning commission, on recommendation of the
public works director and city engineer, may waive construction of underground
utility lines along the peripheral streets or property lines; however, all on
site utility service lines shall be installed underground. In such a situation,
the developer or property owner shall deposit the cost, as determined by the
public works director and/or city engineer, for undergrounding utility lines
along the peripheral streets or property lines with the city for future
undergrounding work to be done by the city.
      2.   A new single-family residence constructed in rural undeveloped areas
where there are no existing utility lines within a one-fourth (1/4) mile
radius. However, in such a situation, the developer or property owner shall
deposit the cost as determined by the public works director and city engineer
for undergrounding utility lines along the peripheral streets or property lines
with the city for future undergrounding work to be done by the city.
   (F)   Nonconforming Structures: Buildings and structures which, on the
effective date hereof or any subsequent amendments thereto, are nonconforming
in regard to aboveground on site utility lines and structures, may continue to
be used, altered or enlarged in the same manner, as if such nonconforming
utility lines did not exist.
   (G)   Appeals: An appeal, along with the appropriate fee, may be submitted
to the city council for the consideration of waiving all or portions of the
requirements of this section due to topographic conditions, soil or other
factors that render undergrounding unreasonable or impractical. All appeals
shall be in writing, and shall state the reason why undergrounding is
unreasonable or impractical. Appeals shall include a preliminary estimate of
cost, in writing, from the serving utility company. (Ord. 805-14, 7-1-2014;
amd. Ord. 823-16, 9-20-2016)
6-11-40: VACANT BUILDING REGISTRATION:
   (A)   Purpose:
      1.   Abandoned or vacant buildings are a major cause and source of blight
in both residential and nonresidential neighborhoods, especially when the owner
of the property fails to actively maintain and manage it. Boarded buildings,
substandard or unkempt properties and long term vacancies discourage economic
development, lower property values or degrade their appreciation, and
constitute a public nuisance.
      2.   Vacant properties are often overgrown with weeds and other
vegetation, used as a dumping ground for debris, toxic or other hazardous
substances, and illegal personal storage of potentially combustible materials.
Blighted vacant properties also attract vagrants, squatters and other criminal
elements as prime locations to conduct illegal activities.
      3.   When the owner of a vacant or abandoned building allows the building
to deteriorate to such an extent that the building must be demolished, persons
and neighboring properties could be endangered. In these circumstances, the
owner of the building can often evade notice and hearing procedures that would
otherwise be required, and the neighborhood and the city as a whole lose an
important and sometimes historical significant resource.
   (B)   Definitions:
      1.   A building shall be defined as vacant or abandoned if it:
         (a)   Is unoccupied or unsecured; or
         (b)   Is unoccupied and secured by boarding or other similar means; or
         (c)   Is unoccupied and unsafe, as defined in section 3-4.2-11 of this
code; or
         (d)   Is unoccupied and has multiple code violations; or
         (e)   Has been unoccupied for over thirty (30) days; or
         (f)   Has an expired business license for over thirty (30) days.
      2.   A building shall not be considered vacant or abandoned if:
         (a)   There is a valid building permit for repair, rehabilitation or
construction of a building on the parcel and the owner completes the repair,
rehabilitation or construction within one year from the date the initial permit
was issued; or
         (b)   The building complies with all codes, does not contribute to
blight, is ready for occupancy, and is actively being offered for sale, lease
or rent.
         (c)   The property owner suffers an unforeseen and undue hardship that
limits their ability to comply with subsections (B)2(a) and (B)2(b) of this
section, as determined by the director.
   (C)   Vacant Building Registration: The owner of a building defined as
vacant or abandoned shall register that building with the planning and
community development department within thirty (30) days after it has become
vacant or abandoned on a form provided by the department. The form shall
describe the methods by which the owner has secured the property against
unauthorized entry, declare any future plans for the property, state whether or
not there is fire and liability insurance coverage, and provide such other
information as the department may require. A registration fee shall be paid at
the time of registration and annually thereafter.
   (D)   Notice To Owner: Whenever the director has probable cause to believe,
based upon an inspection, complaint or report from another agency of the city
or other governmental agency, that a building is vacant or abandoned and it has
not been registered as required by this section, the director shall serve the
owner of record, as shown on the assessor's records, or authorized agent, with
a written notice requiring the owner to register the building with the
department as vacant or abandoned and pay the registration fee within the
period of time specified in the notice, which shall be no greater than thirty
(30) days.
   (E)   Posting: The owner of record of the vacant or abandoned building is
required to post a sign at the front of the building, in a conspicuous location
protected from the weather, which provides the current name, address and phone
number of the owner of record and authorized agent, if different from the
owner. If a notice of default or foreclosure has been recorded for the
property, the lender's name, address and telephone number must also be
provided. The sign shall be no smaller than eight inches by eleven inches
(8"x11").
   (F)   Vacant Building Maintenance And Security Requirements: The following
maintenance and security requirements shall apply to a vacant or abandoned
building. The director has the discretion to modify these requirements in the
case of a partially vacant building, and to modify or waive some or all of
these requirements in the case of a building that has been damaged by fire, a
natural disaster or other calamity.
      1.   The property owner shall actively maintain and monitor the exterior
of the building and the grounds so that they remain in compliance with all
applicable codes and regulations, and do not contribute to and are not likely
to contribute to blight. Active exterior maintenance and monitoring shall
include, but not limited to:
         (a)   Maintenance of landscaping and plant materials in good
condition;
         (b)   Regular removal of all exterior trash, debris and graffiti;
         (c)   Maintenance of the exterior of the building in a good condition
that is structurally safe and preserves the physical integrity of the
structure, including, but not limited to, paint and finishes, foundation, roof,
chimneys, flues, gutters, downspouts, scuppers, flashing, skylights, windows,
exterior stairs and decks;
         (d)   Removal of business identification signs; repair, patch and
paint sign area; and replace existing cabinet sign faces with a black face so
electrical and lighting is not exposed;
         (e)   Prevention of criminal activity on the premises and trespass by
unauthorized persons;
         (f)   Turning off all utilities that are not necessary for the upkeep
and maintenance of the building.
      2.   The property owner shall preserve the interior of the building from
damage by the elements or plumbing leaks, and keep it free from accumulation of
garbage and other debris, and from infestation by rodents, insects or other
pests. Active interior maintenance shall include, but not be limited to:
         (a)   Removal of interior furnishings, racks, displays, trash, debris,
vehicles, business identification signs and other potentially combustible
materials to reduce the risk of a potential fire and provide clear paths of
travel for emergency personnel;
         (b)   Maintenance of the interior of the building in a good condition
that is structurally safe and preserves the physical integrity of the
structure, including, but not limited to, paint, wall and floor finishes,
lighting fixtures and switches, plumbing fixtures, heating and air conditioning
systems, and doorways and openings;
         (c)   Prevention of criminal activity and trespass within the interior
of the vacant or abandoned building by unauthorized persons;
         (d)   The personal use of or leasing to other individuals for use of a
vacant or abandoned building for storage of personal items, commercial goods,
personal or commercial vehicles and other similar items, as determined by the
director, is prohibited.
      3.   The building shall be secured against unauthorized entry. The
methods of security shall be as approved by the director, who shall take into
consideration whether the property has been cited for nuisance activities or
criminal conduct by another department of the city or other government agency.
   (G)   Insurance: The owner of record of a vacant building shall maintain a
minimum fire and liability insurance coverage. The insurance policy shall be
required to provide notice to the department in the event of cancellation of
insurance or a reduction in coverage.
   (H)   Violation And Enforcement: A property in violation of the provisions
of this section is deemed to be a public nuisance and subject to enforcement by
the department and other departments, as necessary. The property owner may be
subject to violation fees in addition to the vacant building registration fee.
(Ord. 805-14, 7-1-2014; amd. Ord. 823-16, 9-20-2016)
6-11-41: WATER EFFICIENT LANDSCAPE REQUIREMENTS:
The City of Taft has adopted in full the State of California Model Water
Efficient Landscape Ordinance (MWELO), Sections 490 through 495 of Chapter 2.7,
including all appendices, of Division 2 Department of Water Resources, of Title
23 Waters, of the California Code of Regulations.
   (A)   Legislative Findings: The California state legislature has found:
      1.   The waters of the state are of limited supply and are subject to
ever increasing demands;
      2.   The continuation of California’s economic prosperity is dependent on
the availability of adequate supplies of water for future uses;
      3.   It is the policy of the state to promote the conservation and
efficient use of water and to prevent the waste of this valuable resource;
      4.   Landscapes are essential to the quality of life in California by
providing areas for active and passive recreation and as an enhancement to the
environment by clean air and water, preventing erosion, offering fire
protection and replacing ecosystems lost to development;
      5.   Landscape design, installation, maintenance and management can and
should be water efficient; and
      6.   Section 2 of article X of the California Constitution specifies that
the right to use water is limited to the amount reasonably required for the
beneficial use to be served and the right does not and shall not extend to
waste or unreasonable method of use.
   (B)   Purpose: Consistent with these legislative findings, the purpose of
this title is to:
      1.   Promote the values and benefits of landscaping practices that
integrate the conservation and efficient use of water;
      2.   Establish a structure for planning, designing, installing,
maintaining and managing water efficient landscapes in new construction and
rehabilitated projects;
      3.   Establish provisions for water management practices and water waste
prevention for existing landscapes;
      4.   Use water efficiently without waste by setting a maximum applied
water allowance as an upper limit for water use and reduce water use to the
lowest practical amount;
      5.   Promote the benefits of consistent landscape ordinances with
neighboring local and regional agencies;
      6.   Encourage the use of economic incentives that promote the efficient
use of water, such as implementing a tiered rate structure; and
      7.   Encourage cooperation between the city and local agencies to
implement and enforce this section.
   (C)   Applicability; Exceptions:
      1.   After December 1, 2015, this section shall apply to all of the
following landscape projects:
         (a)   New construction projects with an aggregate landscape area equal
to or greater than five hundred (500) square feet requiring a building or
landscape permit, plan check or design review;
         (b)   Rehabilitated landscape projects with an aggregate landscape
area equal to or greater than two thousand five hundred (2,500) square feet
requiring a building or landscape permit, plan check, or design review;
         (c)   Existing landscapes limited to Sections 493, 493.1, and 493.2 of
the State Model Water Efficiency Landscape Ordinance; and
         (d)   Recognizing the special landscape management needs of
cemeteries, new and rehabilitated cemeteries are limited to Sections 492.4,
492.11, 492.12, and existing cemeteries are limited to Sections 493, 493.1, and
493.2.
      2.   This section does not apply to:
         (a)   Registered local, state or federal historical sites;
         (b)   Ecological restoration projects that do not require a permanent
irrigation system;
         (c)   Mined land reclamation projects that do not require a permanent
irrigation system; or
         (d)   Plant collections, as part of botanical gardens and arboretums
open to the public.
   (D)   Soil Preparation, Mulch and Amendments: The following compost and
mulch use requirements that are part of the MWELO are now also included as
requirements of this ordinance. Property owners or their building or landscape
designers that meet the threshold for MWELO compliance outlined above shall:
      1.   Comply with Sections 492.6 (a)(3) of the MWELO, which requires the
submittal of a landscape design plan with a soil preparation, mulch, and
amendments section to include the following:
         (a)   For landscape installations, Compost at a rate of a minimum of
four cubic yards per 1,000 square feet of permeable area shall be incorporated
to a depth of six (6) inches into the soil. Soils with greater than six percent
(6%) organic matter in the top six (6) inches of soil are exempt from adding
Compost and tilling.
         (b)   For landscape installations, a minimum three- (3-) inch layer of
mulch shall be applied on all exposed soil surfaces of planting areas except in
turf areas, creeping or rooting groundcovers, or direct seeding applications
where mulch is contraindicated. To provide habitat for beneficial insects and
other wildlife up to five percent (5%) of the landscape area may be left
without mulch. Designated insect habitat must be included in the landscape
design plan as such.
         (c)   Organic mulch materials made from recycled or post-consumer
shall take precedence over inorganic materials or virgin forest products unless
the recycled post-consumer organic products are not locally available. Organic
mulches are not required where prohibited by local fuel modification plan
guidelines or other applicable local ordinances.
      2.   The MWELO compliance items listed in this Section are not an
inclusive list of MWELO requirements; therefore, property owners or their
building or landscape designers that meet the threshold for MWELO compliance
outlined above shall consult the full MWELO for all requirements.
   (E)   If, after the adoption of this ordinance, the California Department of
Water Resources, or its successor agency, amends 23 CCR, Division 2, Chapter
2.7, MWELO requirements in a manner that requires the City to incorporate the
requirements of an updated MWELO in a local ordinance, and the amended
requirements include provisions more stringent than those required in this
Section, the revised requirements of 23 CCR, Division 2, Chapter 2.7 shall be
enforced. (Ord. 838-20, 8-18-2020)
CHAPTER 12
SPECIFIC USE DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
SECTION:
6-12-1: Purpose And Intent
6-12-2: Applicability
6-12-3: Adult Entertainment
6-12-4: Keeping Of Animals
6-12-5: Alcoholic Beverage Retailer Regulations
6-12-6: Kennels (Commercial And Noncommercial)
6-12-7: Exotic Animals
6-12-8: Antennas And Satellite Dishes
6-12-9: Arcades And Video Machines
6-12-10: Automobile Dealerships
6-12-11: Automobile Rental Agencies
6-12-12: Bed And Breakfast Uses
6-12-13: Daycare Facilities
6-12-14: Dependent Housing
6-12-15: Drive-Through Businesses
6-12-16: Emergency Shelters
6-12-17: Fireworks
6-12-18: Home Occupations
6-12-19: Outdoor Recreational Facilities (Public)
6-12-20: Recreational Vehicle Occupancy, Parking And Storage
6-12-21: Recreational Vehicle Parks
6-12-22: Recycling Facilities
6-12-23: Accessory Dwelling Units
6-12-24: Self-Storage Warehouses
6-12-25: Service Stations
6-12-26: Sidewalk Cafes
6-12-27: Surface Parking Lots
6-12-28: Swimming Pools And Recreational Courts (Private)
6-12-29: Vehicle Repair Facilities
6-12-30: Private Smoking Lounges And Tobacco Shops
6-12-31: Garage Or Yard Sales
6-12-32: Commercial Cannabis Activity Permitting And Regulation
6-12-33: Wireless Telecommunication Facilities
6-12-1: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
   (A)   It is the purpose and intent of this chapter to identify land uses and
activities which possess the potential to cause deleterious effects to the
community in which they are located, and to subject such uses to specific
regulations with the intent of minimizing, to the extent practical, these
deleterious effects. Further, it is intended that in the zone districts in
which these land uses are permitted, they are conducted in a manner which is
consistent with the protection of the public health, safety and welfare in
accordance with the goals, policies, objectives and implementation programs
contained in the General Plan.
   (B)   It is further determined that it is in the interest of the public
health, safety and welfare of the citizens of the City to protect minors from
viewing publicly displayed harmful matter, and that pursuant to Penal Code
section 313.1(d), at grocery stores, convenience stores, video stores and other
retail outlets, as well as from the newsracks, and that restriction of public
display of such harmful matter will keep the adverse impacts of such harmful
matter upon minors to a minimum. (Ord. 768-08, 8-19-2008)
6-12-2: APPLICABILITY:
The provisions of this chapter shall apply to the activities and land uses
specified by this chapter, in addition to any standards and regulations
established by this title which may also be applicable to these specified land
uses or activities. (Ord. 768-08, 8-19-2008)
6-12-3: ADULT ENTERTAINMENT:
   (A)   Applicability: It is the intent of this section to prevent community
wide adverse economic impacts, increased crime, decreased property values and
the deterioration of neighborhoods which can be brought about by the
concentration of adult oriented businesses in close proximity to each other, or
proximity to other incompatible uses, such as schools for minors, churches and
residentially zoned districts or uses. The City Council finds that it has been
demonstrated in various communities that the concentration of adult oriented
businesses cause an increase in the number of transients in the area, and an
increase in crime and, in addition to the effects described above, can cause
other businesses and residents to move elsewhere. It is, therefore, the purpose
of this section to establish reasonable and uniform regulations to prevent the
concentration of adult oriented businesses or their close proximity to
incompatible uses, while permitting the location of adult oriented businesses
in certain areas.
   (B)   Findings Of City Council:
      1.   The city council, in adopting this section, takes legislative notice
of the existence and content of the following studies concerning the adverse
secondary side effects of adult oriented businesses in other cities: American
Center For Law And Justice (1996); New York, New York (1994); state of New
Jersey (1994); Garden Grove, California (1991); Tucson, Arizona (1990);
Seattle, Washington (1989); Austin, Texas (1986); Oklahoma City, Oklahoma
(1986); Indianapolis, Indiana (1984); Houston, Texas (1983); Beaumont, Texas
(1982); Minneapolis, Minnesota (1980); Phoenix, Arizona (1979); Whittier,
California (1978), Amarillo, Texas (1971); Cleveland, Ohio (1977); Los Angeles,
California (1977). The city council finds that these studies are relevant to
the problems addressed by the city in enacting this section to regulate the
adverse secondary side effects of adult oriented businesses, and more
specifically finds that these studies provide convincing evidence that:
         (a)   Adult oriented businesses are linked to increases in the crime
rates in those areas in which they are located and in surrounding areas.
         (b)   Both the proximity of adult oriented businesses to sensitive
land uses and the concentration of adult oriented businesses tend to result in
the blighting and deterioration of the areas in which they are located.
         (c)   The proximity and concentration of adult oriented businesses
adjacent to residential, recreational, religious, educational and other adult
oriented businesses uses can cause other businesses and residences to move
elsewhere.
         (d)   There is substantial evidence that an increase in crime tends to
accompany, concentrate around and be aggravated by adult oriented businesses,
including, but not limited to, an increase in the crimes of narcotics
distribution and use, prostitution, pandering and violence against persons and
property. The studies from other cities establish convincing evidence that
adult oriented businesses which are not regulated as to permissible locations
often have a deleterious effect on nearby businesses in residential areas,
causing, among other adverse secondary effects, an increase in crime and a
decrease in property values.
      2.   Based on the foregoing, the city council finds and determines that
special regulation of adult oriented businesses is necessary to ensure that
their adverse secondary side effects will not contribute to an increase in
crime rates or to the blighting or deterioration of the areas in which they are
located or surrounding areas. The need for such special regulations is based
upon the recognition that adult oriented businesses have serious objectionable
operational characteristics, particularly when several of them are concentrated
under certain circumstances or located in direct proximity to sensitive uses,
such as parks, schools and churches, thereby having a deleterious effect upon
the adjacent areas. It is the purpose and intent of these special regulations
to prevent the concentration of adult oriented businesses and thereby prevent
such adverse secondary side effects.
      3.   The location requirements, established by this section, do not
unreasonably restrict the establishment or operation of constitutionally
protected adult oriented businesses that are provided by this section.
      4.   In developing this section, the city council has been mindful of
legal principals relating to regulation of adult oriented businesses and does
not intend to suppress or infringe upon any expressive activities protected by
the first amendments of the United States and California constitutions, but
instead desires to enact reasonable time, place and manner regulations that
address the adverse secondary effects of adult oriented businesses. The city
council has considered decisions of the United States supreme court regarding
local regulations of adult oriented businesses, including, but not limited to:
Young v. American Mini Theaters, Inc. 427 U.S. 50 (1976) (Reh. Denied 475 U.S.
1132); FWIPBS, Inc. v. Dallas 493 U.S. 215 (1990); Barnes v. Glenn Theater 501
U.S. 560 (1991); United States court of appeals 9th circuit decisions,
including, but not limited to: Topanga Press Et Al. v. City Of Los Angeles 989
F.2d 1524 (1993); several California cases, including, but not limited to: City
Of National City v. Wiener 3 Cal. 4th 832 (1993); People v. Superior Court
(Lucero) 49 Cal. 3d 14 (1989); and City Of Vallejo v. Adult Books Et Al. 167
Cal. App. 3d 1169 (1985); and other federal cases, including: Lakeland Lounge
v. City Of Jacksonville (5th Cir. 1992) 973 F.2d 1255; Hang On, Inc. v.
Arlington (5th Cir. 1995) 65 F.3d 1248; Mitchell v. Commission On Adult
Entertainment (3d Cir. 1993) 10 F.3d 123; International Eateries v. Broward
County (11th Cir. 1991) 941 F.2d 1157, and Star v. Satellite v. City Of Biloxi
(5th Cir. 1986) 779 F.2d 1074.
      5.   The city council also finds that locational criteria alone do not
adequately protect the health, safety and general welfare of the citizens of
the city, and thus certain requirements with respect to the ownership and
operation of adult oriented businesses are in the public interest. In addition
to the findings and studies conducted in other cities regarding increases in
crime rates, decreases in property values and blighting of areas in which such
businesses are located, the city council also takes legislative notice of the
facts recited in the case of K v. Inc. v. Kitsav County 793 F.2d 1053 (1986),
regarding how live adult entertainment results in secondary effects, such as
prostitution, drug dealing and other law enforcement problems.
      6.   The city council finds the following, in part based upon its
understanding of the documents and judicial decision in the public record:
         (a)   Evidence indicates that some dancers, models and entertainers
and other persons who publicly perform specified sexual activities or publicly
display specified anatomical parts in adult oriented businesses (collectively
referred to as "performers") have been found to engage in sexual activities
with patrons of adult oriented businesses on the site of the adult oriented
businesses;
         (b)   Evidence has demonstrated that performers employed by adult
oriented businesses have been found to offer and provide private shows to
patrons who, for a price, are permitted to observe and participate with the
performers in live sex shows;
         (c)   Evidence indicates that performers at adult oriented businesses
have been found to engage in acts of prostitution with patrons of the
establishment;
         (d)   Evidence indicates that fully enclosed booths, individual
viewing areas and other small rooms whose interiors cannot be seen from public
areas of the establishment regularly, have been found to be used as a location
for engaging in unlawful sexual activity;
         (e)   As a result of the above, and the increase in incidents of AIDS
and hepatitis B, which are both sexually transmitted diseases, the city has a
substantial interest in adopting regulations which will reduce, to the greatest
extent possible, the possibility of the occurrence of prostitution and casual
sex acts at adult oriented businesses.
      7.   Zoning, licensing and other police power regulations are legitimate,
reasonable means of accountability to help protect the quality of life in the
city and to help assure that all operators of adult oriented businesses comply
with reasonable regulations and are located in places that minimize the diverse
secondary effects which naturally accompany the operation of such businesses.
      8.   The city council recognizes the possible harmful effects on children
and minors exposed to the effects of such adult oriented businesses and the
deterioration of respect for family values, and the need and desire of children
and minors to stay away from and avoid such businesses, which causes children
to be fearful and cautious when walking through or visiting the immediate
neighborhood of such businesses; and the city council desires to minimize and
control the adverse secondary effects associated with the operation of adult
oriented businesses and thereby protect the health, safety and welfare of the
citizens of the city; protect the citizens from increased crime; preserve the
quality of life; preserve the property values and the character of surrounding
neighborhoods and businesses; deter the spread of urban blight and protect
against the threat to health from the spread of communicable and sexually
transmitted diseases.
      9.   It is not the intent of the city council in enacting this section,
or any provision thereof, to condone or legitimize the distribution of obscene
material, and the city council recognizes that state law prohibits the
distribution of the obscene materials and expects and encourages law
enforcement officials to enforce state obscenity statutes against such illegal
activities in the city.
      10.   Nothing in this section is intended to authorize, legalize or
permit the establishment, operation or maintenance of any business, building or
use which violates any city ordinance or any statute of the state of California
regarding public nuisances, unlawful or indecent exposure, sexual conduct,
lewdness, obscene or harmful matter or the exhibition or public display
thereof.
      11.   The city council finds the following in part, based upon its
understanding of the documents and judicial decisions in the public record:
         (a)   Evidence indicates that some dancers, models and entertainers
and other persons who publicly perform specified sexual activities or publicly
display specific anatomical parts in adult oriented businesses (collectively
referred to as "performers") have been found to engage in sexual activities
with patrons of adult oriented businesses on the site of adult oriented
businesses;
         (b)   Evidence has demonstrated that performers employed by adult
oriented businesses have been found to offer and provide private shows to
patrons who, for a price, are permitted to observe and participate with the
performers in live sex shows;
         (c)   Evidence indicates that performers at adult oriented businesses
have been found to engage in acts of prostitution with patrons of the
establishment.
      12.   In prohibiting public nudity in adult oriented businesses, the city
council does not intend to proscribe the communication of erotic messages or
any other communicative element or activity, but rather only to prohibit public
nudity due to the secondary impacts associated with such public nudity.
      13.   The city council also finds, as a wholly independent basis, that it
has a substantial public interest in preserving societal order and morality,
and that such interest is furthered by a prohibition of public nudity.
      14.   While the city council desires to protect the rights conferred by
the United States constitution to adult oriented businesses, it does so in a
manner that ensures the continued and orderly development of property within
the city and diminishes, to the greatest extent feasible, those undesirable
secondary effects which the aforementioned studies have shown to be associated
with the development operation of adult oriented businesses.
      15.   In enacting a nudity limitation, the city declares that the
limitation is a regulatory licensing provision and not a criminal offense. The
city has not provided a criminal penalty for a violation of the nudity
limitation. The city adopts such a limitation only as a condition of issuance
and maintenance of an adult oriented business permit issued pursuant to the
city code.
      16.   The city council finds that preventing the exchange of money
between entertainers and patrons also reduces the likelihood of drug and sex
transactions occurring in adult oriented businesses.
      17.   Requiring separations between entertainers and patrons reduces the
likelihood that such persons will negotiate narcotics sales and/or transact
sexual favors within the adult oriented business.
      18.   Enclosed or concealed booths and dimly lit areas within adult
oriented businesses greatly increase the potential for misuse of the premises,
including unlawful conduct of a type which facilitates transmission of disease.
Requirements that all indoor areas be open to view by management at all times,
and that adequate lighting be provided, are necessary in order to reduce the
opportunity for, and therefore the incidence of, illegal conduct within adult
oriented businesses, and to facilitate the inspection of the interior of the
premises thereof by law enforcement personnel.
   (C)   Included Establishments: Establishment of an adult oriented business,
as used herein, shall mean and include any of the following:
      1.   The opening or commencement of any adult oriented business as a new
business;
      2.   The conversion of an existing business, whether or not an adult
oriented business, to any "adult oriented business", as defined in subsection
(D) of this section;
      3.   The addition of any of the adult oriented businesses, as defined in
subsection (D) of this section, to any other existing adult oriented business;
or
      4.   The relocation of any such adult oriented business.
   (D)   Definitions:
    ADULT ORIENTED BUSINESS: Any of the following:
   Adult Arcade: An establishment where, for any form of consideration, one or
more still or motion picture projectors, video cassettes or other similar image
producing devices are maintained to show images for viewing by five (5) or
fewer persons each, are used to show films, computer generated images, motion
pictures, video cassettes, slides or other photographic reproductions, twenty
five percent (25%) or more of the number of which are distinguished or
characterized by an emphasis upon the depiction or description of specified
sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
   Adult Bookstore: An establishment that sells or rents books, magazines,
periodicals or other printed matter, photographs, films, motion pictures,
slides, tapes, video cassettes, records, or any other form of visual or audio
representation, twenty five percent (25%) or more of the number of which are
distinguished or characterized by an emphasis upon the depiction or description
of specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
   Adult Cabaret: A nightclub, bar, restaurant or similar business
establishment which: 1) regularly features live performances which are
distinguished or characterized by an emphasis upon the display of specified
anatomical areas or specified sexual activities; and/or 2) which regularly
features persons who appear seminude; and/or 3) shows films, computer generated
images, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides or other photographic
reproduction, twenty five percent (25%) or more of the number of which are
distinguished or characterized by an emphasis upon the depiction or description
of specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
   Adult Hotel Or Motel: A hotel or motel, or similar business establishment,
offering public accommodations for any form of consideration which provides
patrons with close circuit television transmissions, films, computer generated
images, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides or other photographic
reproductions, thirty percent (30%) or more of the number of which are
distinguished or characterized by an emphasis upon the depiction or description
of specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
   Adult Motion Picture Theater: A business establishment where, for any form
of consideration, films, computer generated images, motion pictures, video
cassettes, slides or similar photogenic reproductions are shown, and twenty
five percent (25%) or more of the number of which are distinguished or
characterized by an emphasis upon the depiction or description of specified
sexual activities or anatomical areas.
   Adult Newsstands:1.Any coin operated machine or device that dispenses
material substantially devoted to the depiction of specified sexual activities
or anatomical areas.
2.Any shelf, countertop or rack, indoor or outdoor, used for displaying for
sale, rental or other use to the public, magazines, newspapers, video cassettes
or other periodicals substantially devoted to the depiction of specified
activities or anatomical areas where twenty five percent (25%) of the area is
devoted to said uses in nonadult businesses. This does not apply to interior
display fixtures in approved adult entertainment businesses.
   Adult Theater: A theater, concert hall, auditorium or similar establishment
which, for any form of consideration, regularly features live performances
which are distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on the display of
specified anatomical areas or specified sexual activities.
   Modeling Studio: A business which provides for pecuniary compensation,
monetary or other consideration, hire or reward, figure models who for the
purposes of sexual simulation of patrons, display "specified anatomical areas"
to be observed, sketched, photographed, painted, sculpted or otherwise depicted
by persons paying such consideration. "Modeling studio" does not include
schools maintained pursuant to standards set by the state board of education.
"Modeling studio" further does not include a studio or similar facility owned,
operated or maintained by an individual artist or group and which does not
provide, permit or make available "specified sexual activities".
   CHURCH: An institution that people regularly attend to participate in or
hold religious services, meetings or other activities. The term "church" shall
not carry a secular connotation and shall include buildings in which the
religious services of any denomination are held.
   DISTINGUISHED OR CHARACTERIZED BY AN EMPHASIS UPON: Means and refers to the
dominant or essential theme of the object described by such phrase. For
instance, when the phrase refers to films "which are distinguished or
characterized by an emphasis upon" the depiction or description of specified
sexual activities or specified anatomical areas, the films so described are
those whose dominant or predominant character and theme are the depiction of
the enumerated sexual activities or anatomical areas. See Pringle v. City Of
Covina, 115 Cal. App.3 151 (1981).
   REGULARLY FEATURES: With respect to an adult theater or adult cabaret, a
regular and substantial course of conduct. The fact that live performances
which are distinguished or characterized by emphasis upon the display of
specified anatomical areas or specified sexual activities occurs on two (2) or
more occasions within a thirty (30) day period; or four (4) or more occasions
within a one hundred eighty (180) day period shall, to the extent permitted by
law, be deemed to be a regular and substantial course of conduct.
   SCHOOL: Any child or daycare facility, or an institution of learning for
minors, whether public or private, offering instruction in those courses of
study required by the California Education Code and maintained pursuant to
standards set by the state board of education. This definition includes a
nursery school, kindergarten, elementary school, middle or junior high school,
senior high school, or any special institution of education, but it does not
include a vocational or professional institution of higher education, including
a community or junior college, college or university.
   SEMINUDE: A state of dress in which clothing covers no more than the
genitals, pubic region, buttocks, areola of the female breast, as well as
portions of the body covered by supporting straps or devices.
   SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS: Means and includes any of the following:
      1.   Less than completely and opaquely covered human: a) genitals or
pubic region; b) buttocks; and c) female breasts below a point immediately
above the top of the areola;
      2.   Human male genitals in a discernibly turgid state, even if
completely and opaquely covered;
      3.   Any device, costume or covering that simulates any of the body parts
included in subsection 1 or 2 of this definition.
   SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES: Means and includes any of the following,
whether performed directly or indirectly through clothing or other covering:
      1.   The fondling or other erotic touching of human genitals, pubic
region, buttocks, anus or female breasts;
      2.   Sex acts, actual or simulated, including intercourse, oral
copulation or sodomy;
      3.   Masturbation, actual or simulated;
      4.   Excretory functions as part of or in connection with any of the
other activities described in subsections 1 through 3 of this definition.
   (E)   General Provisions: Adult oriented businesses may be permitted in
compliance with the provisions of this section where the land use designation
of the general plan for the subject property is "industrial" and where the zone
district in which the subject property is located is "industrial", subject to
the limitations and design standards specified within said zone districts in
accordance with the provision of this section.
   (F)   Development Standards:
      1.   Minimum Proximity Requirements: The distances provided in this
section shall be measured by following a straight line, without regard to
intervening buildings, from the nearest point of the property upon which the
proposed land use is to be located to the nearest point of the property from
which the proposed land use is to be separated.
      2.   Minimum Distance: Adult oriented businesses shall not be established
or conducted within:
         (a)   One thousand feet (1,000') of any residential use;
         (b)   One thousand feet (1,000') of any funeral parlor, mortuary or
similar facility;
         (c)   One thousand feet (1,000') of a public or private school for
minors;
         (d)   One thousand feet (1,000') of a licensed daycare facility for
minors;
         (e)   One thousand feet (1,000') of a church, synagogue or other place
of worship;
         (f)   One thousand feet (1,000') from any other adult entertainment
business; and
         (g)   One thousand feet (1,000') from any publicly used facility, such
as parks, libraries, or any civic buildings; however, this subsection shall not
apply to such uses as public utility facilities, such as the Taft-Kern County
Airport, utility plants and similar uses.
      3.   Exterior Display: No adult entertainment business shall be operated
in a way that permits observation of material depicting or describing
"specified anatomical areas" or "specified sexual activities", as defined in
this chapter, from any location outside of the building in which an adult
entertainment business is operating.
      4.   Advertising; Displays: Advertising structures, advertisements,
displays or other promotional material depicting "specified anatomical areas"
or "specified sexual activities", or displaying of instruments, devices or
paraphernalia which are designed for use in connection with "specified sexual
activities" shall not be visible from the outside of a building. Further, no
building shall be painted in garish colors or such other fashion that will
effectuate the same purpose as a sign.
      5.   Openings, Windows: All building openings, entries and windows for
adult oriented businesses shall be located, covered or screened in a manner to
prevent a view onto the interior from any exterior public or semipublic area.
      6.   Loudspeakers: No loudspeakers or sound equipment shall be used for
adult oriented businesses that can be discerned by the public from public and/
or semipublic areas.
   (G)   Interior Signage: An interior sign, with a minimum surface area of
four (4) square feet, shall be posted in a prominent location inside the adult
entertainment business, stating, in English and Spanish as follows:
Penal Code section 314 (Indecent Exposures; Exhibitions; Penalty.) Every person
who willfully and lewdly, either:
a. Exposes his person, or the private parts thereof, in any public place, or in
any place where there are present other persons to be offended or annoyed
thereby; or
b. Procures, counsels, or assists any person to expose himself or take part in
any model artist exhibition, to make any other exhibition of himself to public
view, to view any number of persons engaged in actions deemed an offense to
decency, or be adapted to excite to vicious or lewd thoughts or acts, is guilty
of a misdemeanor.
   (H)   Operational Requirements:
      1.   Activities Conducted Indoor: All activities pertaining to the
operation of an adult entertainment business shall be conducted inside the
walls of the proposed building and shall be out of sight and sound from any
location outside the building. This shall not apply to approved outdoor
signage, for the purpose of notifying potential customers of the business.
      2.   Location Of Image Producing Machines: Within the adult entertainment
business, all image producing devices shall be located so that the machines are
open to view from any side and are without obstructions or separations that
would block from open sight, any patrons using said machines.
      3.   Supervision: A responsible adult shall be present on the premises at
all times and shall observe and supervise the use of all image producing
devices and all areas of the business available to public access. Adult
entertainment businesses containing over forty (40) image producing machines
shall require the presence of two (2) responsible adults to observe and
supervise all areas of the business available to public access.
      4.   Facility Design Requirements: All adult entertainment businesses,
other than such businesses that are established as a tenant within an
industrially zoned center containing multiple tenants, shall be designed and
constructed to blend into, and appear as an integral part of, the built
environment that characterizes the surrounding area.
      5.   Exclusion Of Minors: Access to any adult entertainment business by a
minor shall be prohibited. A sign shall be posted on all entrances restricting
inclusion or entrance of minors. No minors shall be employed by any adult
entertainment business nor permitted entrance into the premises.
      6.   Minimum Lighting: No person shall operate an adult entertainment
business, excluding adult motion picture theaters, unless a light level of not
less than two (2) foot- candles at floor level is maintained in every portion
of said establishment to which the public is admitted.
      7.   Maximum Occupancy Load: No person shall operate an adult
entertainment business in which the number of persons in any room or
partitioned portion of a room where an image producing device is located
exceeds one person per thirty (30) square feet. The maximum occupancy permitted
in any room or partitioned portion of a room in which any image producing
device is located shall be conspicuously posted by the operator and shall
remain posted at the entrance of said room.
      8.   Maximum Number Of Devices: No person shall operate an adult
entertainment business in which the number of image producing devices exceeds
the maximum occupancy load permitted in any room or partitioned portion of a
room in which an image producing device is located.
      9.   Free Access To Law Enforcement, Fire, Health And Safety Personnel,
City Inspectors: No person shall deny access to an adult entertainment business
for the purpose of a reasonable inspection to enforce compliance with building,
fire, electrical, health or plumbing regulations, or California state law.
      10.   Other Remedies: The provisions of this subsection are to be
constructed as added remedies not in conflict with or derogation of any other
actions or proceedings or remedies otherwise provided by law.
   (I)   Nonconforming Establishments:
      1.   Legal Nonconforming Use: Any adult entertainment business
establishment and conducted as a lawful business and a lawful use at the time
this section became effective, has been in continuous operation since that
time, and is not in conformance with the requirements of this title, shall be
recognized as a legal nonconforming use.
      2.   Enlargement, Change Of Use: Any nonconforming adult entertainment
use shall not be enlarged or changed by any of the following means, unless such
a change will bring the business into full compliance with the requirements of
this section:
         (a)   Increase in the size of the floor area or use area of a building
or portion of a building in which the business is located;
         (b)   Use of an adjacent building in whole or part, whether on the
same lot or an adjacent lot;
         (c)   Conversion of an existing adult entertainment business to any
other adult entertainment business; and
         (d)   Addition of another adult entertainment business to an existing
adult entertainment business.
      3.   Nonconformance With Distance Requirements: The establishment of any
land use specified in subsection (F)2 of this section, within the prescribed
distances to an existing adult oriented business, shall not, by establishment
of that land use, require the removal of the adult oriented business; provided,
that the adult oriented business is a legal use or a legal nonconforming use
and is in conformance with all provision of this section and other applicable
ordinances and statutes.
   (J)   Amortization Of Nonconforming Adult Oriented Business Uses: Any use of
real property existing on the effective date hereof, which does not conform to
the provisions of this chapter, but which was constructed, operated and
maintained in compliance with all previous regulations, shall be regarded as a
nonconforming use which may be continued for ten (10) years after the effective
date hereof. On or before such date, all such nonconforming uses shall be
terminated unless an extension of time has been approved by the city council in
accordance with the provisions of this section.
      1.   Abandonment: Notwithstanding the above, any discontinuance or
abandonment of the use of any lot or structure as an adult oriented business
shall result in a loss of legal nonconforming status of such use.
      2.   Amortization Of Annexed Property: Any adult oriented business which
was a legal use at the time of annexation of the property and which is located
in the city, but which does not conform to the provisions of this section,
shall be terminated within ten (10) years following the date of annexation
unless an extension of time has been approved by the city in accordance with
the provisions of this section.
   (K)   Extension Of Time For Termination Of Nonconforming Use: The owner or
operator of a nonconforming use as described in this section may apply under
the provisions of this section to the city council for an extension of time
within which to terminate the nonconforming use.
      1.   Time And Manner Of Application: An application for a time extension
within which to terminate a use made nonconforming by the provisions of this
section may be filed by the owner of the real property upon which such use is
operated, or by the operator of the use. Such an application must be filed with
the planning department at least ninety (90) days but not more than one hundred
eighty (180) days prior to the time in which to terminate such use.
      2.   Content Of Application; Fees: The application shall state the ground
for requesting an extension of time. The filing fee for such application shall
be the same as that for a variance as is set forth in the schedule of fees
established by resolution from time to time by the city council.
      3.   Hearing Procedure: The city manager shall appoint a hearing officer
to hear the application. The hearing officer shall set the matter for hearing
within forty five (45) days of receipt of the application. All parties involved
shall have the right to offer testimonial, documentary and tangible evidence
bearing on the issues; may be represented by counsel; and shall have the right
to confront and cross examine witnesses. Any relevant evidence may be admitted
that is the sort of evidence upon which reasonable persons area accustomed to
rely in the conduct of serious affairs. Any hearing under this section may be
continued for a reasonable time for the convenience of a party or witness. The
hearing officer's decision shall be final and subject to judicial review
pursuant to Code Of Civil Procedure section 1094.6.
      4.   Approval Of Extension; Findings: An extension under the provisions
of this section shall be for a reasonable period of time commensurate with the
investment involved, and shall be approved only if the hearing officer makes
all of the following findings or such other findings as are required by law:
         (a)   The applicant has made a substantial investment (including, but
not limited to, lease obligations) in the property or structure on or in which
the nonconforming use is conducted; such property or structure cannot be
readily converted to another use; and such investment was made prior to the
effective date hereof;
         (b)   The applicant will be unable to recoup said investment as of the
date established for termination of the use; and
         (c)   The applicant has made good faith efforts to recoup the
investment and to relocate the use to a location in conformance with the
provisions of this section.
   (L)   Regulations Nonexclusive:
      1.   Permitting Violations: Nothing in this section is intended to
authorize, legalize or permit the establishment, operation or maintenance of
any business, building or use which violates any city ordinances or statute of
the state of California regarding public nuisance, sexual conduct, lewdness,
obscene or harmful matter, or the exhibition or public display thereof.
      2.   Nonexclusive: The regulations set forth in this section are not
intended to be exclusive and compliance therewith shall not excuse
noncompliance with any other regulations pertaining to the operation of adult
entertainment establishments set forth elsewhere in applicable ordinances.
   (M)   Display Of Harmful Material To Minors Prohibited:
      1.   Public Displays: It shall be unlawful to display, cause to be
displayed or permit to be displayed for commercial purposes, any harmful matter
in any public place, except for a public place from which minors are excluded.
      2.   Blinder Racks: Harmful matter is not considered to be displayed if
it is located in an area that places such material reasonably beyond the reach
of a minor and a device, commonly known as a blinder rack, is placed in front
of such harmful matter.
      3.   Video Recordings: Any person who sells or rents video recordings
containing harmful matter shall comply with Penal Code section 313.1.(e) which
requires the creation of a separate area within a business establishment for
the placement of such video recordings for display of any material advertising
the sale or rental of such video recordings. Additionally, any harmful matter,
placed or displayed in that separate area, must be obscured by a blinder rack
if the harmful matter can be viewed by any persons outside that area.
      4.   Newsracks: Any newsrack, which offers harmful matter for sale, must
place a blinder rack in front of such harmful matter so as to obscure the lower
two-thirds (2/3) of the material displaying said harmful matter. For purposes
of this subsection, a wrapper which obscures the lower two-thirds (2/3) of the
material and which is fastened securely to the material may be used in lieu of
a blinder rack. (Ord. 768-08, 8-19-2008)
6-12-4: KEEPING OF ANIMALS:
   (A)   Intent: This section is intended to ensure that keeping of animals or
husbandry land uses does not create adverse impacts to adjacent properties,
such as dust, noise, odor, fumes, bright light, visual blight or insect
infestation.
   (B)   Applicability: All keeping of animals or husbandry land uses conducted
shall comply with the provisions of this section, in addition to applicable
provisions of the zone district in which the said use is located.
   (C)   Preexisting Uses: Legally established keeping of animals and husbandry
uses which would, as a result of the adoption of this title become
nonconforming within this title, be permitted to continue as a "legal
nonconforming use"; provided, that the use meets the criteria for legal
nonconforming uses, pursuant to section
6-2-13 of this title, nonconforming use and structure provisions.
   (D)   Permitted Uses: The following uses are permitted uses on each
residential parcel in the city. For purposes of calculating allowed number of
animals, remainders of area or of animals shall be rounded down:
      1.   Domestic Pets: The following standards apply to the keeping of
domestic pets within A, RS, R-1, R-2 and R-3 zone districts:
         (a)   Not more than four (4) dogs may be kept, maintained or harbored
at any residence within the city.
         (b)   The keeping of up to four (4) domestic, adult household pets,
other than dogs, including domestic birds, rabbits, hamsters, rats, mice, etc.,
shall be permitted in any combination of species for each ten thousand (10,000)
square feet of net lot area, provided the total number of adult household pets
kept does not exceed twenty (20) animals.
      2.   Horses: The following standards apply to the noncommercial keeping
of horses within the A and RS zone districts:
         (a)   No horses or ponies shall be kept on any lot with a net area
less than twenty thousand (20,000) square feet.
         (b)   One adult horse may be kept on a parcel for each twenty thousand
(20,000) square feet of net lot area, up to a maximum of six (6) horses or
ponies, or combination thereof.
      3.   Other Animals: Noncommercial keeping of the following animals, in
any combination, may be permitted within the A and RS zone districts:
         (a)   Goats, sheep and other small sized cleft hoof animals:
            (1) No goats, sheep or other small sized cleft hoof animals shall
be kept on any parcel with a net area of less than twenty thousand (20,000)
square feet.
            (2) Two (2) adult goats, sheep or other small sized cleft hoof
animal may be kept for each additional twenty thousand (20,000) square feet of
net lot area, up to a maximum of six (6) adult animals total, in any
combination of species.
         (b)   Cattle (bovines):
            (1) No cattle or bovines shall be kept on any lot or parcel with a
net area of less than forty thousand (40,000) square feet.
            (2) One bovine may be kept for each twenty thousand (20,000) square
feet of net lot area up to a maximum of four (4) bovine.
         (c)   Poultry, rabbits and other small animals:
            (1) On parcels ten thousand (10,000) square feet net lot area or
larger, a maximum of four (4) such adult animals, in any combination of
species, may be kept.
            (2) On parcels ten thousand (10,000) square feet net lot area or
larger, a maximum of four (4) such adult animals per each additional ten
thousand (10,000) square feet of net lot area, in any combination of species,
may be kept, provided the total number kept does not exceed twenty (20)
animals.
      4.   Student Oriented Projects: The breeding and raising of livestock, in
greater numbers than allowed in this section, by minors in conjunction with a
student oriented fair project sponsored by a bona fide agricultural
organization shall be permitted upon application to and approval by the project
assistance team.
         (a)   Application Contents: An application for a temporary animal
permit shall include the following:
            (1) The name and address of the applicant.
            (2) The names and address of the property owner.
            (3) Assessor's parcel number.
            (4) Legal description of the subject property.
            (5) Name of the organization sponsoring the applicant.
            (6) A plot plan showing the location of proposed pens, coops or
areas for the breeding and raising of animals in relation to existing
residences and other buildings and structures within one hundred feet (100') of
pens, coops or areas housing livestock.
            (7) The signature of each owner of the real property abutting the
subject lot consenting to the granting of the temporary animal permit.
         (b)   Development Standards And Conditions: The breeding and raising
of animals on a temporary basis shall comply with the following standards and
conditions:
            (1) Applicant shall be sponsored by a bona fide organization, such
as, but not limited to, Future Farmers Of America, 4-H Club, Cow-Belles or
Junior Farmers.
            (2) The increase in animal density shall not exceed one horse,
donkey, mule, cow, dairy stock, goat, hog, sheep or other similar animal for
each additional ten thousand (10,000) square feet of lot area. In any case, no
more than six (6) additional animals shall be allowed.
            (3) A temporary animal permit shall be effective for a period of
six (6) months from the effective date of the permit. No more than one such
permit shall be approved for any lot within a one year period.
            (4) The written consent of each abutting property owner consenting
to the granting of a temporary animal permit must be obtained.
            (5) The applicant shall allow inspection of animal maintenance
facilities by the Kern County health department and city staff.
            (6) The project assistance team may revoke a temporary animal
permit at any time for noncompliance with this section or upon receipt of a
recommendation for revocation from the Kern County health department.
            (7) Each additional animal authorized by a temporary animal permit
over the allowable animal density specified herein shall be removed upon
expiration of the permit.
      5.   Conditionally Permitted Uses: The following shall be permitted
subject to securing an approved conditional use permit in the agricultural zone
district in accordance with section
6-2-5 of this title:
         (a)   Exotic or wild animals, as defined in section
6-1-19, "Definitions", of this title.
         (b)   On lots twenty thousand (20,000) square feet or greater, frog
farms or the raising of earthworms may be permitted; provided, that the area
devoted to such use or uses shall not exceed ten percent (10%) of the net lot
area.
         (c)   Fish hatcheries or farms for stocking, breeding or commercial
sale.
         (d)   The raising of rabbits, chinchilla, nutria, hamsters, guinea
pigs and other such animals similar in size, appearance and weight for
commercial purposes.
         (e)   Noncommercial aviaries (not including chickens); provided, that
the number of birds shall not exceed seventeen (17) birds for each forty
thousand (40,000) square feet of net lot area.
         (f)   Noncommercial apiary (beekeeping); provided, that hives and/or
boxes shall be placed a minimum of four hundred feet (400') from any street,
road, highway, public school, park or any occupied dwelling, except for the
owner or caretaker of the apiary.
      6.   Animal Offspring: Offspring born to permitted or conditionally
permitted animals kept on any given site may be maintained on said site until
weaned without being counted against the maximum number of animals permitted on
the site as follows:
         (a)   Dogs: Six (6) months;
         (b)   Horses and ponies: Twelve (12) months;
         (c)   All other equine and cleft hoof animals: Six (6) months. (Ord.
768-08, 8-19-2008)
6-12-5: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE RETAILER REGULATIONS:
   (A)   Purpose:
      1.   It has been found that business establishments and organizations
engaged in the sale of alcoholic beverages for consumption frequently generate
or contribute to problems which adversely affect the health, peace or safety of
the city residents, property owners, businesses, visitors and workers. Such
problems include, but are not limited to, loitering, obstruction of pedestrian
and vehicular traffic, defacement of buildings, disturbances of the peace,
illegal drug activity, drinking in public, harassment of passerby, gambling,
prostitution, sale of stolen goods, public urination, theft, assaults,
batteries, excessive littering, illegal parking, excessive loud noises in the
late night and early morning hours, traffic violations, lewd conduct, police
detections or arrests, and the deterioration of neighborhoods in which such
establishment and business premises are located.
      2.   The purpose of this section is to protect the health, safety and
welfare of the community by: a) imposing restrictions on the location of such
establishments in relation to one another and in relation to certain public and
private facilities and structures; and b) requiring that each such
establishment or organization obtain a conditional use permit in connection
with its business operations or its events and activities which involve the
sale of alcoholic beverages.
   (B)   Applicability: The provisions of this section shall apply to all new
establishments selling alcoholic beverages, for either on site or off site
consumption.
      1.   Site Plan Review: A site plan review application shall be filed with
the Planning Department with approvals vested with the Planning Director for
the following alcoholic beverage retailers:
         (a)   A new application for a Type 41 On Sale Beer and Wine - Eating
Place or Type 20 Off Sale Beer and Wine license for a premises located within a
census tract that has not reached the maximum number or authorized licenses by
ABC.
         (b)   An existing licensed retailer within City of Taft boundaries
transferring an existing Type 41 or Type 20 license to another location within
the City.
         (c)   A Type 20 licensee premises shall have no more than ten percent
(10%) of gross floor area dedicated to alcoholic beverage sales, applicable to
new and transferred licenses.
         (d)   A licensee premises shall not be a public premises.
      2.   Conditional Use Permit: A conditional use permit application shall
be filed with the Planning Department with approvals vested with the Planning
Commission if any of the following conditions apply to the proposed alcoholic
beverage retailer:
         (a)   All new or transferred license types that do not qualify for a
site plan review per this section.
         (b)   A licensee premises is located in a census tract that has more
licenses issued than the maximum number of authorized licenses, deemed over-
concentrated, by ABC.
         (c)   An off-sale licensee premises with more than ten percent (10%)
of gross floor area dedicated to alcoholic beverage sales.
   (C)   Standard Conditions Of Approval For All Alcoholic Beverage Retailers:
      1.   The applicant shall furnish the city a copy of the ABC license and a
copy of the conditions placed on the license by the department of alcoholic
beverage control prior to the commencement of alcoholic beverage retail
operations at the licensee premises.
      2.   The applicant shall comply with all restrictions placed upon the
license issued by the state of California department of alcoholic beverage
control.
      3.   An amendment of an approved site plan review or conditional use
permit, as provided in this title, shall be obtained when:
         (a)   The establishment proposes to change its type of license.
         (b)   The establishment proposes to modify any of its current
conditions of approval.
         (c)   There is a substantial change in the mode or character of
operations of the establishment.
      4.   Exterior lighting in the premises parking area shall be designated
to provide adequate lighting for patrons, while not unreasonably disturbing
surrounding properties. A lighting plan, subject to review and approval by the
planning director, shall be implemented prior to sale of any alcoholic
beverage.
      5.   In the event city staff determines that security problems exist on
the site, the conditions of this permit may be amended, under the provisions of
this title, to require additional security.
      6.   The establishment shall have a public telephone listing.
      7.   It shall be the responsibility of the licensee to provide all
employees that sell or serve alcoholic beverages with the knowledge and skill
that will enable them to comply with their responsibilities under state law.
This includes, but is not limited to, the following:
         (a)   State laws relating to alcoholic beverages, particularly ABC and
penal provisions concerning sales to minors and intoxicated persons, driving
under the influence, hours of operation, and penalties for violations of these
laws.
         (b)   The potential legal liabilities of owners and employees of
businesses dispensing alcoholic beverages to patrons who may subsequently
injure or harm themselves or other individuals as a result of the excessive
consumption of alcoholic beverages.
         (c)   Alcohol as a drug and its effects on the body and behavior,
including the operation of a motor vehicle.
         (d)   Methods for dealing with intoxicated persons and recognizing
underage persons.
      8.   Litter and trash receptacles shall be located at convenient
locations inside and outside the establishment operators of such establishments
shall remove trash and debris in a manner to eliminate a health problem. There
shall be no dumping of trash and/or glass bottles outside the establishment
between the hours of ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. and seven o'clock (7:00) A.M.
      9.   The planning commission has the right to hold a public hearing to
revoke or amend any licensee's approved conditional use permit or site plan
review pursuant to the provisions of this title. Said license may be revoked or
amended if public nuisances are demonstrated to occur as a result of criminal
or antisocial behavior, including, but not limited to, the congregation of
minors, violence, public drunkenness, vandalism, solicitation and/or litter.
      10.   A site plan review or conditional use permit which has been
approved or conditionally approved for alcohol related land uses shall become
null and void unless exercised within one year of the date of final approval.
An extension of time may be granted by the planning commission or planning
director pursuant to a written request for extension, with the request
submitted to the planning department a minimum of ninety (90) days prior to
such expiration date.
   (D)   Additional Standard Conditions Of Approval For On-Sale Licenses:
      1.   All alcoholic beverages sold in conjunction with an on sale licensed
establishment must be consumed entirely on the premises. The off-sale of
alcoholic beverages is prohibited.
      2.   There shall be no live entertainment, amplified music or dancing
permitted on the premises at any time, unless specifically authorized by a
conditional use permit approved by the planning commission. Furthermore, the
operation of the premises shall be consistent with the license conditions
imposed by the state of California department of alcoholic beverage control.
      3.   The establishment shall comply with the provision of section
6-11-18, "Noise Hazards", of this title.
      4.   In addition to the knowledge and skills deemed necessary for
responsible alcoholic beverage services, as set forth in this section, the
following additional topics and skills shall be required:
         (a)   Methods to appropriately pace customer drinking to reduce the
risk that a customer may leave the premises in an intoxicated manner.
         (b)    Knowledge of mixology, including marketable alternatives to
alcoholic beverages.
   (E)   Additional Standard Conditions Of Approval For On Sale Licenses With
Outdoor Dining Areas:
      1.   Outdoor dining areas utilized for the sale, service or consumption
of alcoholic beverages shall be in continuous supervision at all times to
ensure the outdoor dining area does not create a public nuisance contrary to
public welfare.
      2.   All outdoor dining areas shall be surrounded by an enclosure of a
design and height satisfactory to the planning commission.
      3.   Any canopy constructed over an outdoor dining area shall comply with
all requirements of the building and fire departments.
   (F)   Additional Standard Conditions Of Approval For Off Sale Licenses:
      1.   The sale of alcoholic beverages for consumption on the premises
shall be prohibited and there shall be appropriate posting of signs both inside
and outside the licensed premises stating that drinking of alcoholic beverages
on the premises is prohibited by law.
      2.   No off sale establishment shall be permitted within six hundred feet
(600') of a school, park, playground, daycare for children, or other recreation
or youth facilities.
      3.   These premises shall include the licensed premises proper,
appurtenant and required parking areas, and appurtenant common areas if located
in a commercial center.
   (G)   Public Convenience And Necessity: A determination of public
convenience and necessity shall be made for all conditional use permit
approvals for off-sale and on-sale licenses located in over-concentrated areas.
The planning director, planning commission, and/or city council shall make the
following findings of public convenience and necessity:
      1.   The proposed off-sale or on-sale license is compatible with the
existing nature and character of the proposed location, adjacent properties,
and the surrounding area;
      2.   The proposed off-sale or on-sale license is not anticipated to have
an adverse effect, introduce a new or contribute to an existing crime problem
at the proposed location, adjacent properties, and surrounding area.
      3.   The proposed location for the off-sale or on-sale license has no
building code, municipal code, or public health code violations of record.
   (H)   Additional Conditions: The planning director, planning commission, or
city council may impose additional conditions of approval to the above listing
of items in order to fully ensure that the proposed issuance of a land use
approval for an alcohol license is fully compatible with the surrounding
neighborhood and that all adverse environmental impacts and nuisances are
mitigated to the fullest extent possible. (Ord. 768-08, 8-19-2008; amd. Ord.
842-21, 9-7-2021)
6-12-6: KENNELS (COMMERCIAL AND NONCOMMERCIAL):
   (A)   Intent: This section is intended to ensure that the operation and
maintenance of commercial and noncommercial kennels, as defined in section
6-1-19, "Definitions", of this title, does not create a nuisance or otherwise
impair the enjoyment of surrounding properties.
   (B)   Applicability: All kennels, both noncommercial and commercial, shall
comply with the provisions of this section and all other standards and permit
procedures pursuant to the zone district in which such kennel is located.
   (C)   Performance Standards For Commercial And Noncommercial Kennels:
      1.   Animal Runs: Animal runs shall meet the following criteria:
         (a)   All animal runs shall be of adequate size for animals held
therein.
         (b)   All animal runs shall be constructed and/or coated with
nonporous material to discourage the breeding of ticks and other similar pests.
         (c)   All animal runs and animal holding areas shall have concrete or
other durable flooring which is sloped for proper drainage.
         (d)   All animal runs shall have adequate enclosures to provide
protection from inclement weather.
         (e)   All animal runs shall be provided with sufficient drains to
control drainage and daily washing of the runs.
      2.   Sanitation: All kennels shall be served by sewer and/or all
excrement produced by said kenneled animals shall be properly disposed of on a
regular basis to control flies and odor.
      3.   Noise Control: The kennel area shall be so located and sound
attenuated, if necessary, so that noise levels measured at the property line do
not exceed standards set for the adjacent use.
      4.   Location Not In Setback Areas: No animal runs, exercise areas or
keeping of the kenneled animals for commercial or noncommercial purposes shall
be located within a required setback area. (Ord. 768-08, 8-19-2008)
6-12-7: EXOTIC ANIMALS:
The keeping of exotic animals, as defined in section
6-1-19, "Definitions", of this title, shall be permitted only in the A and RS
zone districts, subject to the following regulations:
   (A)   Veterinarian Statement; Notice Description: Prior to giving notice in
accordance with the provisions of section
6-2-15, "Public Hearing And Notification Procedures", of this title, the
reviewing authority shall request that the county veterinarian submit a
statement regarding the particular animal's mature behavior and personality
characteristics. Notice given to adjacent property owners shall include a
description of the type of animal and its behavioral characteristics.
   (B)   Required Evidence: Any action to approve a request for keeping an
exotic animal shall not be effective until written evidence is received by the
planning director that:
      1.   The applicant has applied for and obtained a permit from the public
health department.
      2.   The applicant has applied for and obtained a permit from the state
department of fish and game, if required.
   (C)   Conditions: Any action to approve a request for an exotic animal shall
include the following conditions in addition to any conditions deemed
appropriate by the reviewing authority:
      1.   The keeping of the animal must comply with the provisions of this
title, and any other applicable city code, including setbacks from property
lines and other dwellings.
      2.   The keeping of the animal must comply with all applicable federal
and state requirements.
      3.   No more than two (2) exotic animals over the age of six (6) months
may be kept, unless a conditional use permit for a menagerie or zoo has been
approved by the city. (Ord. 768-08, 8-19-2008)
6-12-8: ANTENNAS AND SATELLITE DISHES:
   (A)   Intent: This section is intended to reduce the potential safety,
aesthetic and view blocking impacts of antennas and satellite dishes, and to
integrate such structures into neighborhoods with the least possible impact.
   (B)   Applicability:
      1.   Specified: This section applies to every antenna and satellite dish
installed or modified on or after the effective date hereof.
      2.   Approval Required: Except as otherwise provided for in this section,
no antenna or satellite dish shall be installed or modified prior to approval
by the project assistance team, including an antenna or satellite dish proposed
as an accessory structure to an existing use for which a conditional use permit
was required.
   (C)   Development Standards:
      1.   Residential Districts: Every satellite dish installed, modified and
maintained in a residential zone district shall be in accordance with the
provisions of this subsection:
         (a)   Only one per parcel is permitted.
         (b)   The diameter of the dish shall not exceed five feet (5').
         (c)   The dish shall not be located in the front yard of the parcel.
         (d)   The dish shall comply with all height and setback requirements
specified for accessory structures within the applicable district.
         (e)   Dishes less than three feet (3') in diameter may be roof
mounted; provided, that the top of the dish is mounted on the rear of the
building, below the peak of the roofline in such a manner as to be screened as
much as possible from view from a public street, and is no greater than twenty
three feet (23') in total height from ground level. Dishes with a diameter of
three feet (3') or greater shall be ground mounted and shall be no greater than
eight feet (8') in height from ground level.
         (f)   The dish shall be finished in a color to neutralize and blend in
with the immediate surroundings.
         (g)   The dish shall be screened and landscaped along all sides when
visible from the street, except the reception window for which low level
landscape treatment shall be applied along the dish's base. Such treatments
shall completely enclose the dish.
         (h)   The installation shall be so located to prevent obstruction of
the dish's reception window from potential development on adjoining parcels of
land.
         (i)   A building permit shall be obtained.
         (j)   The display of signs, lighted displays or other graphics on a
satellite dish is prohibited.
      2.   Nonresidential Districts: Every satellite dish installed, modified
and/or maintained in a nonresidential zone district shall be in accordance with
the provisions of this subsection:
         (a)   Only one dish greater than five feet (5') in diameter per parcel
may be permitted.
         (b)   The diameter of any dish shall not exceed ten feet (10').
         (c)   Dishes shall comply with all height and setback requirements
specified for accessory structures for the applicable zone district.
         (d)   Dishes shall be finished in color to neutralize and blend in
with the immediate surroundings.
         (e)   The installation shall be located in such a way as to prevent
obstruction of the dish's reception window from potential development on
adjoining parcels.
         (f)   Dishes shall not be located in front of the primary structure on
the parcel, and shall not be visible from a primary access street.
         (g)   A building permit shall be obtained.
         (h)   The displays of signs, lighted displays or other graphics on a
satellite dish is prohibited.
      3.   Standards For Antennas In All Districts: The installation of one
antenna which exceeds the maximum height for the district within which the
antenna is to be located may be permitted, subject to the following
limitations, and the approval of a conditional use permit pursuant to section
6-2-5 of this title:
         (a)   Any operation of citizens band or other radio transmitting
equipment, excluding public service, public safety or emergency radio services,
shall be subject to the provisions of chapter 13, "Performance Standards", of
this title.
         (b)   Microwave, mobile phone antenna and antenna repeater stations
are subject to the provisions of section
6-12-8-1, "Antennas And Wireless Telecommunication Facilities", of this
chapter.
         (c)   Antennas for noncommercial use shall not exceed ten feet (10')
over the height limit for the district in which it is located, unless such
antenna is found by the planning commission to be necessary to protect the
public health and safety. (Ord. 768-08, 8-19-2008)
6-12-9: ARCADES AND VIDEO MACHINES:
   (A)   Intent: This section is intended to establish standards which will
mitigate the noise and loitering commonly associated with arcades and video
machines. Regulations controlling the specific location and development of
these uses are established by this section.
   (B)   Applicability: "Arcades", as defined in section
6-1-19, "Definitions", of this title, shall be permitted only in the general
commercial (GC) and downtown commercial (DC) zone districts, subject to the
approval of a conditional use permit in compliance with the provisions of
section
6-2-5 of this title. A conditional use permit shall also be required at such a
time as application is made to the city to expand an existing arcade.
   (C)   Minimum Development And Performance Standards:
      1.   Maximum Number Of Machines: The number of video machines permitted
shall not exceed one machine per each thirty (30) square feet of floor area.
      2.   Lighting: The arcade shall be fully and adequately lighted for easy
observation of all areas of the premises.
      3.   Bicycle Racks: Bicycle storage racks shall be maintained off the
public sidewalk at the ratio of one-half (1/2) bicycle space per machine to
adequately accommodate bicycles utilized by arcade patrons.
      4.   Telephones: At least one public telephone shall be provided at each
arcade. All telephones shall be located within the building.
      5.   Hours Of Operation: Hours of operation shall be limited to between
eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. and ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. every day of the week.
      6.   Adult Supervision:
         (a)   An employed adult supervisor shall be able to readily observe
all video machines and all areas of business during hours of operation.
         (b)   There shall be one employed adult supervisor for each forty (40)
video machines on the premises during hours of operation.
      7.   Noise: No sound created by any arcade, or its patrons, shall be
detectable from the exterior of the arcade or from adjacent uses.
      8.   Litter: The premises shall be continuously maintained in a safe,
clean and orderly condition. (Ord. 768-08, 8-19-2008)
6-12-10: AUTOMOBILE DEALERSHIPS:
   (A)   Intent: This section is intended to ensure that automobile dealerships
do not create adverse impacts on adjacent properties and surrounding
neighborhoods due to insufficient on site customer and employee parking,
traffic generation, including road testing of vehicles, obstruction of traffic,
visual blight, bright lights, noise, fumes, or drainage runoff. The following
special conditions shall apply to automobile dealerships.
   (B)   Development Standards: All new dealerships shall comply with the
provisions of this section, in addition to the development standards and permit
procedures of the zone district in which it is located:
      1.   Minimize Lot Size: The minimum lot size for automobile dealerships
shall be twenty thousand (20,000) square feet.
      2.   Parking: Areas designated for employee and customer parking shall
not be used for vehicle storage or display.
      3.   Landscaping: A minimum five foot (5') landscape strip shall be
provided outside the public right-of-way along the street frontage perimeter of
all vehicle display areas.
      4.   Washing Of Vehicles: All washing, rinsing or hosing down of vehicles
and of the property shall comply with the requirements specified in section
6-12-29, "Vehicle Repair Facilities", of this chapter.
      5.   Loading, Unloading: Loading and unloading of vehicles shall be
conducted in accordance with the following provisions:
         (a)   The dealership operator is deemed to be responsible and liable
for any activities of a common carrier, operator or other person controlling
such loading or unloading activities to the extent any such activities violate
the provisions of this subsection.
         (b)   Off loading locations shall be established either on site or off
site, and shall be subject to the approval of the Public Works Director if
within the public right-of-way. Loading and unloading activities shall not
block the ingress and egress of any adjacent property.
      6.   Storage Of Vehicles To Be Repaired: Vehicles brought on site for
repair purposes shall not be parked or stored on any public street or alley,
and should be parked in required parking spaces reserved for such purposes.
      7.   Repair Of Vehicles: The repair and service facility portion of any
automobile dealership shall comply with the provisions of section
6-12-29, "Vehicle Repair Facilities", of this chapter.
      8.   Queuing Of Vehicles: On site queuing area or lanes for service
customers shall be provided, which shall be large enough to accommodate a
minimum of one and one-half (11/2) vehicles for each service bay in the
facility. On site driveways may be used for queuing, but may not interfere with
access to required parking spaces. Regular parking spaces may not double as
queuing spaces.
      9.   Noise Control:
         (a)   Loudspeakers are permitted; provided, that noise levels are
maintained below fifty five (55) dBA at any boundary.
         (b)   All noise generating equipment exposed to the exterior shall be
muffled with sound absorbing materials to reduce noise levels below fifty five
(55) dBA at the property boundary.
      10.   Toxic Waste Storage And Disposal: Gasoline storage tanks shall meet
all applicable State and local health regulations, and shall be constructed and
maintained under the same conditions and standards that apply to service
stations.
      11.   Air Quality:
         (a)   Brake washers shall be installed and utilized in all service
stalls or areas which perform service on brakes containing asbestos or other
materials known to be harmful when dispersed into air.
         (b)   Mechanical ventilating equipment shall direct exhaust away from
adjacent residential properties.
         (c)   Exhaust systems shall be equipped with appropriate and
reasonably available control technology to minimize or eliminate noxious
pollutants which would otherwise be emitted. (Ord. 768-08, 8-19-2008)
6-12-11: AUTOMOBILE RENTAL AGENCIES:
   (A)   Intent: This section is intended to ensure that automobile rental
agencies do not create adverse impacts on adjacent properties and surrounding
neighborhoods due to insufficient on site customer and employee parking,
traffic generation, including road testing of vehicles, obstruction of traffic,
visual blight, bright lights, noise, fumes or drainage runoff.
   (B)   Development Standards:
      1.   Washing Of Vehicles: All washing, rinsing or hosing down of vehicles
and of the property shall comply with the requirements of section
6-12-29, "Vehicle Repair Facilities", of this chapter.
      2.   Repair Of Vehicles: No vehicle repair work shall occur on the
premises unless all repair work and storage of parts is contained entirely
within an enclosed building and the rental agency is otherwise permitted and
licensed by the State of California to repair motor vehicles.
      3.   Storage Of Vehicles: No vehicles to be displayed, sold, rented or
repaired shall be parked or stored on any street or alley. In addition, no
rental cars shall be stored or parked within parking areas intended to comply
with the provisions of chapter 14, "Parking Regulations", of this title. (Ord.
768-08, 8-19-2008)
6-12-12: BED AND BREAKFAST USES:
   (A)   Intent: This section is intended to control the establishment and
operation of bed and breakfast uses to ensure that such uses do not adversely
affect the surrounding neighborhood.
   (B)   Applicability: All bed and breakfast uses, as defined herein, shall
comply with the provisions of this section and the zone district in which the
use is located.
   (C)   General Regulations:
      1.   Permitted Use: Bed and breakfast uses may be permitted in all
residential and commercial zone districts in which residential (permanent and
transient) uses are either permitted or are permitted subject to an approved
conditional use permit.
      2.   Use Accessory; Residence: This use shall be conducted as an
accessory use only; the residential structure shall serve as the primary
residence of the owner. If a corporation is the owner, a majority shareholder
of the corporation shall reside in the residential structure where said use is
proposed.
         (a)   All bed and breakfast uses shall be subject to:
            (1) A conditional use permit, as specified in section
6-2-5 of this title.
            (2) A health permit, as specified in the Kern County Code.
            (3) A Transient Occupancy Tax (Bed Tax).
         (b)   Application for a permit shall be made by the resident property
owner or his/her legal agent having power of attorney to make such application.
   (D)   Development Standards:
      1.   Structural Features:
         (a)   All dwelling units proposed for a bed and breakfast use shall
comply with standards and specifications of the California Building Code, and
shall also be subject to the room occupancy standard outlined in the State
Housing Law (as amended).
         (b)   Each guestroom shall be equipped with a fire extinguisher and a
smoke detector conforming to California Building Code standards. An exit/egress
and an emergency evacuation map shall be displayed in a prominent location in
each guestroom.
      2.   Accesses And Driveways: The owner shall ensure that all required
accesses, driveways and parking spaces remain clear and unobstructed, and are
available and ready for the occupants use at all times.
      3.   Design Standards:
         (a)   Alterations and modifications may be made to the structures and
the site, but such alterations shall be compatible with the character of the
neighborhood. Such alterations and modifications shall also comply with all
applicable City provisions, requirements and standards and ordinances.
         (b)   Additional landscaping may be required to screen parked vehicles
from direct view of the neighbors, particularly where such parking is located
within a front yard setback.
         (c)   Any lights used to illuminate the site shall be designed and
placed to reflect away from adjoining properties and public thoroughfares.
         (d)   A nonilluminated identification sign, not to exceed six (6)
square feet in area is permitted. If not attached to the residence, such sign
shall not exceed six feet (6') in height and must blend with the architectural
style of the structure and the neighborhood.
      4.   Kitchen Facilities:
         (a)   There shall be no cooking facilities permitted in guestrooms.
         (b)   The sale of food or other materials in residential districts is
limited to guests who are currently occupying the premises where the use is
located and not to the general public.
      5.   Miscellaneous Standards:
         (a)   The land use shall not involve the use of commercial vehicles
for delivery of materials to or from the premises, except for those commercial
vehicles normally associated with residential use deliveries.
         (b)   There shall be no outdoor storage of materials or equipment, nor
shall merchandise be visible from outside the home.
         (c)   The appearance of the structure shall not be altered nor the
occupation within the residence be conducted in a manner which would cause the
premises to differ from its residential character either by use of colors,
materials, lighting, signs or the emission of sounds, noises and vibrations.
         (d)   The use of utilities and community facilities shall be limited
to that normally associated with the use of a property for residential
purposes.
      6.   Penalty For Noncompliance: The planning commission may void any
conditional use permit for a bed and breakfast use for noncompliance with the
conditions set forth in the approving permit. Notice of such a pending action
shall be given to the permittee prior to any action being taken.
      7.   Findings: Prior to acting upon an application for a conditional use
permit for a bed and breakfast use, the planning commission shall find that all
the following are true:
         (a)   The site, upon which the bed and breakfast use is to be
established, shall conform to all standards of the zone district in which it is
located; the site for the proposed use is adequate in size and shape to
accommodate said use, and all yards, building coverage, setbacks, parking areas
and other applicable requirements of this title are met.
         (b)   The residential character of the neighborhood in which the use
is located is maintained and preserved and that the issuance of the permit
shall not be significantly detrimental to the public health, safety and welfare
or injurious to the vicinity and district in which the use is located. (Ord.
768-08, 8-19-2008)
6-12-13: DAYCARE FACILITIES:
   (A)   Intent: This section is intended to ensure that daycare facilities, as
defined in section
6-1-19 of this title, which provide childcare in a residential zone district
does not adversely impact the adjacent neighborhood. While family daycare
facilities are needed by city residents in close proximity to their homes, care
must be taken to prevent the potentially adverse traffic conditions, noise and
safety impacts this land use could have on the community. It is further the
intent of this section to allow daycare operations in residential surroundings
to give children a home environment which is conducive to healthy and safe
development.
   (B)   Performance Standards For Small Daycare Facilities:
      1.   General Requirements: A small family daycare facility shall conform
to all property development standards and permit procedures of the zone
district in which it is located, in addition to the provisions of this section
and any requirements governed by California Health And Safety Code section
1597.46.
      2.   Outdoor Play Area: An outdoor play area shall be provided, which
complies with the provisions of the California Health And Safety Code governing
child daycare homes. Stationary play equipment shall not be located in required
front or side yard setbacks.
      3.   Fences And Walls: When located within or adjacent to a
nonresidential district, a six foot (6') high solid fence or wall shall be
constructed on all such property lines, except within the front yard area where
the fence or wall shall not exceed forty inches (40") in height. Materials,
textures, colors and design of the fence must be compatible with on site
development and adjacent properties. All fences or walls shall provide for
child safety with controlled points of entry.
      4.   Landscaping: On site landscaping shall be maintained in good
physical condition.
      5.   On Site Parking: On site parking for home based daycare facilities
located within residential zone districts shall require no more than two (2) on
site spaces.
      6.   Passenger Loading: A passenger loading/unloading plan shall be
reviewed and approved by the public works director.
      7.   Lighting: All lighting shall comply with the provisions of section
6-13-8, "Light And Glare", of this title, except that when located within a
residential district, lighting shall be directed away from adjacent properties
and public rights of way, except for passenger loading areas.
      8.   Hours Of Operation: For the purposes of noise abatement, daycare
facilities in residential districts may only operate between the hours of six
o'clock (6:00) A.M. and seven o'clock (7:00) P.M., seven (7) days a week.
      9.   Outdoor Activity: For the purposes of noise abatement, outdoor
activities for daycare facilities in residential districts may only be
conducted between the hours of eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. to seven o'clock (7:
00) P.M.
      10.   State And Other Licensing Requirements: All daycare facilities
shall be state licensed and shall be operated according to all applicable state
and city regulations.
   (C)   Performance Standards For Large Family Daycare Facilities: Applicants
for large family daycare facilities, seven (7) to twelve (12) children, shall
be required to submit an application to the planning department for a large
family daycare facility. This application, which may be obtained at the office
of the planning department, requires the applicant's signature to acknowledge
that the following conditions shall be adhered to if the permit to operate is
to remain valid:
      1.   Single-Family Dwelling; Use Secondary: The facility is a single-
family dwelling and is the principal residence of the provider. This use as a
family daycare home is clearly incidental and secondary to the use of the
property for residential purposes.
      2.   Structural Alterations: No structural changes or signage is proposed
which will alter the character of the single- family residence.
      3.   Parking: In addition to the required off street parking for the
residence, a minimum of one off street parking space per employee is required.
The residential driveway is acceptable as such a parking space if said parking
space will not conflict with any required child drop off or pick up area and
does not block the public sidewalk or any portion of the city right of way.
      4.   Noise: The operation of the large daycare facility shall comply with
noise standards contained in the noise element of the general plan and with
section
6-11-18, "Noise Hazards", of this title.
      5.   Drop Off, Pick Up Area: Any residence located on an arterial street
must provide a drop off and pick up area designed to prevent vehicles from
backing onto an arterial roadway. Curbside drop off and pick up is acceptable
if a curbside parking lane exists adjacent to the property. If existing
curbside parking (drop off and pick up) is converted to a travel lane, this
permit shall be terminated unless an adequate drop off and pick up area can be
provided elsewhere to the satisfaction of the public works director.
      6.   Code Compliance: The provider shall comply with all applicable
building code and fire code regulations regarding health and safety
requirements. Provider shall, prior to operating the facility, apply for and
receive a change of occupancy permit from the building official.
      7.   State License: The provider has secured a large family daycare
facility (home) license from the state of California, department of social
services.
      8.   Adverse Affects: The facility shall be operated in a manner which
will not adversely affect adjoining residences or be detrimental to the
character of the residential neighborhood in which it is located.
      9.   Additional Provisions: In addition to the provisions of this
subsection (C), all provisions of subsection (B) of this section, not in
conflict with this subsection, shall apply. (Ord. 768-08, 8-19-2008)
6-12-14: DEPENDENT HOUSING:
   (A)   Temporary Permit: A detached dependent housing unit, as defined in
section
6-1-19, "Definitions", of this title, may be temporarily permitted in any
single-family residential zone district, subject to an approved conditional use
permit as an accessory use to any permitted single-family residential primary
land use; provided, however, that there is only one primary residential land
use occupying the site.
   (B)   Requirements:
      1.   Occupancy: The permittee shall occupy at least one of the dwelling
units on the premises.
      2.   Application For Permit: Applications for a permit shall be made by a
resident owner of the subject property, or his legal agent having power of
attorney to make such application, on which the dependent housing unit is to be
located.
      3.   Temporary Occupancy Permit: The applicant must obtain a temporary
occupancy permit, pursuant to the provisions of section
6-2-10 of this title.
      4.   Letter Of Proof: Each year, prior to the anniversary of the
approval, the applicant shall submit a letter from an attending physician
stating that a medically related reason still exists for the dependent housing
unit. If no such letter is submitted, or if no reason still exists for medical
hardship, the temporary structure, and all appurtenances to it, shall be
completely removed from the premises.
      5.   Notice Of Changes: The permittee shall submit written notification
to the planning department of any proposed change of residency in the temporary
dependent housing unit.
   (C)   Findings: Prior to acting upon an application for a conditional use
permit for a temporary dependent housing unit, the planning commission shall
find that all of the following are true:
      1.   Adequate Site: The site for the proposed use is adequate in size and
shape to accommodate said use and all yards, building coverage, setbacks,
parking areas and other requirements of this title are met.
      2.   Subordinate To Principal Unit: The proposed temporary dependent
housing unit is clearly subordinate in size, location and appearance to the
principal unit.
      3.   Not Detrimental: Issuance of the permit shall not be significantly
detrimental to the public health, safety or welfare or injurious to property or
improvements in the general vicinity in which the land use is located.
      4.   Constructed For Removal: The temporary dependent housing unit shall
be erected, constructed or installed so as to allow for its feasible removal.
      5.   Compatibility: The appearance of the temporary dependent housing
unit and the method of siting are compatible with the surrounding environment.
   (D)   Conditions:
      1.   Permitted Structural Types: Units constructed to meet the standards
of the national mobilehome and safety standards act of 1974 1 .
      2.   Floor Area: The floor area of the dependent (temporary) unit shall
not exceed fifty percent (50%) of the floor area of the existing principal
dwelling unit; however, in no case may the temporary dependent unit exceed
eight hundred fifty (850) square feet in floor area.
      3.   Design Standards: The appearance of any temporary dependent housing
unit erected, constructed or set down in accordance with the provisions of this
section shall be similar to and compatible with the appearance of the principal
residence on the property.
      4.   Parking: Parking for the temporary dependent housing unit shall be
in accordance with the applicable requirements of this title, unless the
residents of the temporary dependent housing unit are incapable of operating a
motor vehicle.
      5.   Location And Occupancy: The temporary depended housing unit shall
not extend beyond the principal residence where such principal residence faces
a street right of way. The existing principal residence on the property shall
be occupied by the owner of the property.
      6.   Lot Area: A temporary dependent housing unit shall not be permitted
on any parcel which does not meet the minimum area requirements of the zone
district in which it is located.
      7.   Development Standards: The dependent unit shall comply with the
development standards for the zone district in which it is to be located.
      8.   Removal Of Unit: As a condition of permit approval, the permittee
shall enter into an agreement with the City, placing responsibility upon the
permittee to comply with the provisions of this section, describing the method
of removal of the temporary dependent housing unit when the permit is no longer
valid, and acknowledging that the permittee shall bear the cost of removal of
such unit. (Ord. 768-08, 8-19-2008)
 
Notes
1 1. HSC §18551.
6-12-15: DRIVE-THROUGH BUSINESSES:
   (A)   Intent: This section is intended to ensure that drive- through
businesses do not create adverse impacts on adjacent properties and residents
or on surrounding neighborhoods due to customer and employee parking demand,
traffic generation, noise, light and litter.
   (B)   Applicability:
      1.   Specified: The provisions of this section shall apply to all new
drive-through businesses and to the expansion of twenty percent (20%) or more
of the gross floor area or an increase in the number of seats in any existing
business that results in a drive-in or drive-through facility.
      2.   Exception: Floor area added for the purpose of compliance with State
or local health laws or access requirements of the disabled shall not be
included in floor area calculations of purposes of determining applicability of
this section.
   (C)   Development Standards:
      1.   Hours Of Operation: When located on a site adjacent to or separated
by an alley from any residentially zoned property, a drive-through business
shall not open prior to six o'clock (6:00) A.M., nor remain open after twelve
o'clock (12:00) midnight, unless otherwise approved by the Planning Commission.
      2.   Drive-Through Lanes, Queuing, And Stacking:
         (a)   Drive-through businesses shall have a continuous lane that shall
provide for both ingress and egress, in all instances, and these lanes shall
provide queuing/stacking space adequate for a minimum of six (6) vehicles for
restaurant uses and a minimum of four (4) vehicles for other commercial uses.
         (b)   Each drive-through lane shall be separated from the area of
vehicle circulation necessary for ingress and egress to any parking space. Each
drive-through lane shall be striped, marked or otherwise distinctly delineated.
      3.   Parking: A parking and vehicular circulation plan encompassing
adjoining streets and alleys shall be submitted for review and approval by the
City Engineer. (Ord. 833-18, 4-17-2018)
6-12-16: EMERGENCY SHELTERS:
"Emergency shelter", as defined in section
6-1-19 of this title, shall be subject to the following development standards:
   (A)   Maximum Stay: For emergency shelter, shall not exceed one hundred
eighty (180) days in a three hundred sixty five (365) day period.
   (B)   Capacity: The maximum number of beds/persons permitted to be served
nightly shall be based on the individual capacity of the building and overall
facility and shall not be less than fifty (50) square feet per person served,
consistent with California Government Code section 65583(4)(A).
   (C)   Location To Transit Stop: Facilities should be located within a one-
half (1/2) mile radius of a local or regional transit stop, as measured from
the property line.
   (D)   Distance Between Facilities: A minimum distance of two hundred feet
(200') shall be maintained between emergency shelters.
   (E)   On Site Manager: At least one manager shall be on site during all
hours of operation of the facility. Such manager shall be an individual who
does not utilize the shelter's beds or other services and who resides off site.
   (F)   Parking: Each facility shall meet the minimum parking requirement of
the residential structures they occupy, per chapter 14 of this title. There
shall be a minimum of one parking stall for every four (4) beds or one-half (1/
2) parking space for each bedroom designated for family units with children,
plus one parking stall for each employee/volunteer on duty, shall be
maintained.
   (G)   Bicycle Rack: Each facility shall provide an on site bicycle rack for
use by residents of the facility.
   (H)   Lighting: Exterior lighting may be provided for the outdoor areas. All
lighting shall be designed to project downward and not be directed toward or
create glare on adjacent properties per section
6-13-8 of this title.
   (I)   Waiting, Intake Areas: Facility waiting and intake areas shall be
provided containing a minimum of ten (10) square feet per bed provided at the
facility. Waiting and intake areas shall be located within the facility
building or may be located outside and shall be screened from public view by
six foot (6') tall mature landscaping or six foot (6') tall solid wall or
fence.
   (J)   Storage: Facility storage should be limited to within the interior of
the facility structure. Outdoor storage shall be limited to small accessory
structures that meet all development, setback and lot coverage standards of the
zone district and be consistent with section
6-11-3 of this title. Large storage containers and seatrains are prohibited.
   (K)   Restroom Facilities: Each facility shall provide a minimum of one
restroom facility that includes at least one sink, one toilet and one shower.
Facilities that accommodate homeless families shall provide an additional
restroom facility specifically designated for use just by families. Larger
facilities shall provide additional restroom facilities at a ratio of one full
restroom facility for every ten (10) beds.
   (L)   Operational Plan: An operational plan may be required for review and
approval to address additional specific needs as identified by the planning
director. The approved operational plan shall remain active throughout the life
of the facility and updated as necessary. At a minimum, the plan shall contain
provisions addressing the items outlined below:
      1.   Safety, Security: Safety and security measures for residents and
staff;
      2.   Loitering Control: Loitering control measures;
      3.   Management Of Outdoor Areas: Management of outdoor areas with
admittance and discharge procedures and monitoring of waiting areas;
      4.   Staff Training: Staff training with objectives to provide knowledge
and skills to assist clients in obtaining permanent shelter and income;
      5.   Communication, Outreach: Communication and outreach with objectives
for responses to operational issues which may arise from the neighborhood, City
staff or the general public;
      6.   Screening: Screening of clients for admittance eligibility with
objectives to provide first service to Taft area residents;
      7.   Counseling: Counseling programs to be provided with referrals to
outside assistance agencies; and
      8.   Litter Control: Litter control objectives to provide for the removal
of litter attributable to clients within the vicinity of the facility.
   (M)   Other Support, Social Services: Shelters and housing facilities may
provide other support and social services in designated areas separate from
sleeping areas, such as:
      1.   Recreation areas;
      2.   Counseling for job placement, educational, healthcare, legal or
mental health services;
      3.   Laundry facilities;
      4.   Kitchen facilities;
      5.   Dining facilities;
      6.   Other similar services geared to homeless clients. (Ord. 812-15, 7-
7-2015)
6-12-17: FIREWORKS:
The provisions of title IV, chapter 13 of this Code shall apply. (Ord. 768-08,
8-19-2008)
6-12-18: HOME OCCUPATIONS:
   (A)   Intent: Home occupations are intended to provide for commercial uses
within a residence in those cases where that use will not alter the character
or the appearance of the primary residential use. "Home occupations", as
defined in section
6-1-19 of this title, shall be permitted in any residential district, subject
to the following regulations of this section.
   (B)   Authority: Authority for approval of a home occupation shall be vested
with the Planning Director, or their designee.
   (C)   Application: An application for a home occupation shall be filed with
a business license application to the Finance Department in a manner prescribed
by the Planning Director. The application shall include the following:
      1.   Name and address of the applicant.
      2.   Name(s) and address(es) of the property owner(s).
      3.   Assessor's parcel number(s).
      4.   Notarized written authorization from property owner(s) permitting
the applicant, if not a property owner, to operate the home occupation.
      5.   Description of the home occupation including:
         (a)   Trade name or business title;
         (b)   Detailed description of the proposed occupation;
         (c)   Tools, machinery, or equipment required or used in the practice
of the proposed home occupation.
   (D)   Conditions: Prior to approving a request for a home occupation, the
Planning Director shall find that the proposed use meets the following
conditions prior to approval of any such home occupation permit:
      1.   Employees: All employees shall be members of the resident family and
shall reside on the premises.
      2.   Sales Prohibited: There will be no direct sales of products or
merchandise.
      3.   Traffic: Pedestrian and vehicular traffic will be limited to that
normally associated with residential districts.
      4.   Commercial Vehicles: The home occupation shall not involve the use
of commercial vehicles for the delivery of materials to or from the premises
beyond those commercial vehicles normally associated with residential uses.
      5.   Percentage Of Use: Up to twenty five percent (25%) of the living
space or two hundred fifty (250) square feet, whichever is greater, of the home
may be used for storage of materials and supplies related to the home
occupation.
      6.   Outdoor Storage: There shall be no outdoor storage of materials or
equipment, nor shall merchandise be visible from outside the home.
      7.   Conducted Within Main Building: The home occupation shall be
confined within the main building. A garage shall be considered as part of the
main building.
      8.   Signs: No sign shall be permitted other than those allowed under
chapter 15 of this title.
      9.   Business Advertising: Business address or location is not allowed in
any public advertising.
      10.   Hours Of Operation: The home occupation hours of operation shall be
limited from seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. to eight o'clock (8:00) P.M. daily.
Providing commercial services for customers at the residence shall be by
appointment only.
      11.   Appearance: The appearance of the structure shall not be altered,
nor the occupation within the residence be conducted in a manner which would
cause the premises to differ from its residential character, either by the use
of colors, materials, construction, lighting, signs or the emissions of sounds,
noises, vibrations, dust, electrical interference, fire hazard, glare or
nuisance to any greater extent than normally found in a residential area.
      12.   Utilities, Common Facilities: The use of utilities and community
facilities shall be limited to that normally associated with the use of the
property for residential purposes.
   (E)   Prohibited Uses: The following uses, by their operation or nature,
shall not be permitted to operate as home occupations:
      1.   Motor vehicle repair or service.
      2.   Hairdressing, barbering, or any other cosmetology uses.
      3.   Firearm or ammunition sales, including by mail order.
      4.   Uses involving the storage or use of chemicals, solvents, mixtures,
or materials that are corrosive, toxic, flammable, an irritant, a strong
sensitizer or other similar industrial materials. (Ord. 827-17, 8-1-2017)
   (F)   Noncompliance; Void: The reviewing authority, pursuant to section
6-2-20, "Revocation Of Permits", of this title, may void any permit for a home
occupation for noncompliance with conditions set forth in the approving permit.
Notice shall be given to the permittee prior to any such action taking place.
(Ord. 768-08, 8-19-2008; amd. Ord. 827-17, 8-1-2017)
6-12-19: OUTDOOR RECREATIONAL FACILITIES (PUBLIC):
   (A)   Intent: This section is intended to ensure that outdoor recreational
facilities, which are open to the public within or adjacent to a residential
district, do not adversely impact adjacent residential parcels and are utilized
in a manner which protects the integrity of the district, while allowing for
the enjoyment of a healthful recreational activity.
   (B)   Applicability: The provisions of this section shall apply to all
recreational facilities which are owned by a public agency or are open to the
public. This includes, but is not limited to, golf courses, driving ranges,
swimming pools, tennis courts, ball fields and other similar facilities.
   (C)   Development Standards:
      1.   Fencing: Outdoor recreational facilities, covered by this section,
shall conform to all applicable property development standards for the district
in which the facilities are located, except as provided below:
         (a)   When necessary to contain play within the recreational
facilities, chainlink fences up to twelve feet (12') in height, measured from
the adjacent grade, may be permitted; provided, that such fences are not
located within the front or side yard setback areas.
         (b)   Fences greater than twelve feet (12') in height, as measured
from adjacent grade, may be permitted, provided such fence is not located in
the front or side yard setback, when a finding is made by the project
assistance team that such a fence height is necessary to protect adjacent
residential streets, homes or property from possible damage resulting from use
of the recreational facility. This provision shall only be applicable in the
case of golf courses, driving ranges and baseball/softball playing fields.
      2.   Landscaping, Screening: Landscaping and screening shall be provided
on all boundaries of the parcel which abut public rights-of-way, a residential
zone district or residential land use.
      3.   Lighting: Lighting shall not be permitted after ten o'clock (10:00)
P.M. Sunday through Thursday, or after eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M. on Friday or
Saturday. (Ord. 768-08, 8-19-2008)
6-12-20: RECREATIONAL VEHICLE OCCUPANCY, PARKING AND STORAGE:
   (A)   Purpose: The purpose of this section is to ensure the proper
occupancy, parking and storage of recreational vehicles and similar vehicles
and to ensure that such occupancy does not create adverse impacts and nuisances
on the property and adjacent properties.
   (B)   Residential Zoned Properties: Recreational vehicles, travel trailers,
fifth wheels, toy haulers, campers, pop-ups, and other similar vehicles shall
not be occupied, parked or stored on residential zoned properties within the
City except as herein specified below:
      1.   Recreational vehicles shall not be occupied as the primary residence
or occupied as the second unit on a residential zoned property.
      2.   Recreational vehicles shall not be permanently connected to
electrical, water, or other utilities while stored on a residential zone
property.
      3.   Recreational vehicles shall not be parked or stored within the front
yard of any residential zoned property. Such vehicles shall be parked or stored
along the side yard, in the rear yard, or available parking area adjacent to an
alleyway.
      4.   Recreational vehicles shall not be permanently parked or stored on a
public street or other public property and shall be subject to section
9-2-3 of this Code.
   (C)   Uses Prohibited:
      1.   No mobilehome, camp car, recreational vehicle, travel trailer coach
or similar type structure or vehicle, whether designed for human habitation or
human occupancy for industrial, professional or commercial purposes shall be
permitted within the City except as herein specifically provided for or as may
be specifically provided elsewhere in this Code.
      2.   It is unlawful to use a mobilehome, trailer coach, motor home,
travel trailer, camp car or similar type structure or vehicle for human
habitation purposes within the City, except when parked within a licensed
mobilehome park or approved mobilehome subdivision. However, this section shall
not be applicable in the Industrial (I) and Agricultural (A) Zone Districts,
under the following conditions:
         (a)   A conditional use permit approved by the City for such use shall
be secured prior to placement of such vehicle on the property affected.
         (b)   No more than one mobilehome, trailer coach, travel trailer, camp
car or similar type structure or vehicle shall be permitted in connection with
each industrial or agricultural establishment.
         (c)   The mobilehome, trailer coach, travel trailer, camp car or
similar type structure or vehicle must be an accessory and temporary use to the
industrial or agricultural establishment.
         (d)   Occupancy of the mobilehome, trailer coach, travel trailer, camp
car or similar type structure or vehicle shall be only by a person or persons
employed by the industrial or agricultural establishment.
   (D)   Nuisances: Parked and stored recreational vehicles shall be subject to
the public nuisance regulations outlined in title III, chapter 4.1 of this
Code.
   (E)   Exceptions: Nothing herein shall be construed as preventing the
unoccupied storage of aforementioned structures or vehicles at locations within
the City that would not violate other provisions of this Code. Nothing herein
shall be construed as preventing the temporary use of such mobilehomes, trailer
coaches, travel trailers, camp cars or similar type structures or vehicles for
office or construction work, provided that such trailers are not used for
purposes of twenty four (24) hour human habitation, but are rather used as
temporary work and/or office space during the period of a specific project for
which they are needed. (Ord. 832-18, 4-17-2018)
6-12-21: RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PARKS:
   (A)   Intent: This section is intended to provide regulations for the
establishment, maintenance and operation of recreational vehicle parks within
the City, and to ensure that recreational vehicle parks do not adversely impact
adjacent properties and the surrounding community.
   (B)   Applicability: The provisions of this section shall apply to
recreational vehicle parks and recreational vehicles within the parks. This
section and its provisions do not apply to section
6-11-16, "Manufactured Housing", or
6-11-17, "Mobilehome Parks", of this title.
   (C)   Conditional Use Permit: A conditional use permit, as provided in
section
6-2-5 of this title, shall be required for development of a new recreational
vehicle park and/or for the modification or expansion of an existing
recreational vehicle park. Whenever a difference occurs between the standards
of this section and an underlying zone district, the standards of this section
shall apply.
   (D)   Development Standards: Recreational vehicle parks are intended to
provide for the accommodation of visitors to the City who travel to the
community by recreational vehicle and reside in that vehicle. This use is also
intended to create a safe, healthful and beneficial environment for both
occupants of the recreational vehicle parks and to protect the character and
integrity of the surrounding community.
      1.   Permitted Uses: Only recreational vehicles that conform to the
definition in section
6-1-19, "Definitions", of this title, shall be allowed on recreational vehicle
lots.
      2.   Accessory Uses: The following permitted accessory uses shall be
operated primarily for the convenience of recreational vehicle park occupants:
         (a)   Caretaker units for management and/or staff;
         (b)   Retail market;
         (c)   Indoor/outdoor recreational facilities;
         (d)   Laundry;
         (e)   Office;
         (f)   Personal services, including showers and restrooms.
      3.   Maximum Residency Period: Recreational vehicle parks are intended to
provide for the accommodation of visitors to Taft who travel to the community
by recreational vehicle and reside in that vehicle for a period not to exceed
one hundred eighty (180) days.
      4.   Site Area: The minimum site area for a recreational vehicle park
shall be two (2) acres.
      5.   Lot Area: A minimum of one thousand two hundred fifty (1,250) square
feet of lot area shall be provided for each recreational vehicle.
      6.   Building Height: The maximum building height for all structures in
the recreational vehicle park lots is fifteen feet (15'). The maximum building
height in all other areas is thirty five feet (35').
      7.   Setbacks: A recreational vehicle park shall have a landscaped
setback of no less than ten feet (10') along all property lines adjacent to
streets and residential zoned properties.
      8.   Walls And Fences: A six foot (6') masonry wall shall be constructed
along all property lines to screen the recreational vehicles from adjacent
properties. Walls and other screening along street frontages shall be at the
discretion of the Planning Commission and can include, but not be limited to,
landscape berms, solid walls, wrought iron fencing, or a combination of fencing
and landscaping.
      9.   Open Space: A recreational vehicle park shall provide two hundred
fifty (250) square feet of usable open space per lot. The open space area shall
be distributed throughout the park as private open space and common open space
areas.
      10.   Interior Streets: The design and layout of interior streets in a
recreational vehicle park shall be consistent with the parking lot design
provisions of section
6-14-6, "Design Standards", of this title.
      11.   Parking: Each recreational vehicle lot shall provide one asphalt
paved automobile parking space. Guest and employee parking shall be provided at
the rate of one parking space for every five (5) recreational vehicle lots. All
spaces shall be a minimum of nine feet (9') wide and nineteen feet (19') deep.
      12.   Lighting: Light standards shall be a maximum of twenty feet (20')
in height. Lighting shall be indirect, hooded and positioned so as to reflect
onto the access roads and away from the recreational vehicle spaces and
adjoining property.
      13.   Trash/Recycling Facilities: One trash enclosure shall be provided
for every twenty (20) recreational vehicle lots.
      14.   Electrical Service: Each recreational vehicle space shall be
provided with electrical service. All electrical, telephone and television
services within the recreational vehicle park shall be underground.
      15.   Water Service: Each recreational vehicle space shall be provided
with a fresh water connection.
      16.   Sewer Service: Each recreational vehicle space shall be provided
with a connection to an approved sanitary sewer system. (Ord. 801-13, 9-17-
2013; amd. Ord. 832-18, 4-17-2018)
6-12-22: RECYCLING FACILITIES:
   (A)   Intent: This section is intended to provide the community with
regulations for the siting of recycling, redemption and processing facilities,
and to ensure that recycling facilities do not create adverse impacts on the
site and the surrounding community.
   (B)   Applicability:
      1.   Use Types: The provisions of this section shall apply to the
following use types, as defined in this section and section
6-1-19, "Definitions", of this title:
         (a)   Reverse vending machines;
         (b)   Small collection facilities;
         (c)   Large collection facilities;
         (d)   Processing facilities.
      2.   Compliance: Such use types shall comply with the provisions of this
section in addition to applicable standards and permit procedures of the zone
district in which the use type is located.
   (C)   Reverse Vending Machines: Reverse vending machines shall comply with
the following development standards:
      1.   Condition Of Machines: All machines shall be clean and not dented,
bent or otherwise disfigured, or other appearance of disrepair;
      2.   Placement: Shall be established in conjunction with a commercial
use, industrial use, or public facility which is in compliance with this title;
      3.   Location: Shall be located within thirty feet (30') of the entrance
to the commercial or industrial structure and shall not obstruct pedestrian or
vehicular circulation;
      4.   Prohibited Within Parking Spaces: Shall not occupy required parking
spaces;
      5.   Area And Height: Shall occupy no more than fifty (50) square feet of
floor area per installation, including any protective enclosure, and shall be
no more than eight feet (8') in height;
      6.   Construction: Shall be constructed and maintained with durable,
waterproof, weather resistant, and rustproof material;
      7.   Identification: Shall be clearly marked to identify the type of
material to be deposited, operating instructions, and the contact information,
with phone number, of the responsible party that services the machine when
inoperable or in disrepair;
      8.   Signage: Shall have a maximum sign area of four (4) square feet per
machine, exclusive of operating instructions;
      9.   Maintenance: Shall be maintained in a clean, graffiti-free, and
litter free condition on a daily basis; and
      10.   Illumination: Shall be exterior and/or interior illuminated to
ensure comfortable and safe operation during early morning or evening
operation.
   (D)   Small Collection Facilities:
      1.   Development Standards: Small collection facilities shall comply with
the following standards:
         (a)   Location: Facility shall be located a minimum distance of five-
hundred feet (500'), as determined by the Planning Commission, from the
property line of any lot zoned or planned for residential use.
         (b)   Placement: Shall be established in conjunction with an existing
commercial use, industrial use, or public facility which is in compliance with
this title and the Building and Fire Code of the City;
         (c)   Area: Shall be no larger than five hundred (500) square feet and
occupy no more than five (5) parking spaces, not including space that will be
periodically needed for removal of materials or exchange of containers.
Occupation of additional parking spaces by the facility and by the attendant
may reduce available parking spaces below the minimum number required for the
primary land use as follows:
 
Number of Parking Spaces Maximum Reduction
0 - 25                   0
26 - 35                  1
36 - 49                  2
50 - 99                  3
100+                     4
 
         (d)   Setback: Shall be set back at least ten feet (10') from any
property line and shall not obstruct pedestrian or vehicular circulation;
         (e)   Items Accepted: Shall accept only glass, metal, and plastic
beverage containers;
         (f)   Use Of Power Equipment: Shall use no power driven processing
equipment, except for reverse vending machines that are sited with a small
collection facility;
         (g)   Containers: Shall use storage containers that are:
            (1)   Constructed and maintained with durable waterproof, weather
resistant, and rustproof material;
            (2)   Covered, self-enclosed, or enclosed by fencing when site is
not attended and secured from unauthorized entry or removal of material; and
            (3)   Of a capacity sufficient to accommodate materials collected
in accord with a collection schedule;
         (h)   Storage Of Material: Shall store all recyclable material in
containers or in a mobile unit vehicle, and shall not leave materials outside
of containers when attendant is not present;
         (i)   Litter: Shall be maintained free of litter, debris, and any
other undesirable materials. Mobile facilities, at which a truck or containers
are removed at the end of each collection day, shall be swept and litter
removed at the end of each collection day;
         (j)   Noise: Shall not exceed noise levels of sixty-five (65) dBA as
measured at the property line of residentially zoned or occupied property,
otherwise shall not exceed seventy (70) dBA in commercial areas and seventy-
five (75) dBA in industrial areas;
         (k)   Hours: Shall operate only during the hours between nine o'clock
(9:00) A.M. and seven o'clock (7:00) P.M. Storage container delivery and pickup
hours shall only be during the hours between six o'clock (6:00) A.M. and seven
o'clock (7:00) P.M.;
         (l)   Identification: Shall utilize clearly marked containers which
identify the type of material which may be deposited; the facility shall be
clearly marked to identify the name and telephone number of the facility
operator and the hours of operation; and shall display a notice stating that no
material shall be left outside the recycling enclosure or containers.
      2.   Signs: Signs may be provided as follows:
         (a)   Number, Size: Small collection facilities may have a maximum of
four (4) identification signs each, a maximum of twenty percent (20%) of the
surface area per side of the facility/container or sixteen (16) square feet,
whichever is larger. Each side shall be measured from the pavement to the top
of the container or facility;
         (b)   Directional Signs: Limited to six (6) square feet in size, may
be installed on-site to facilitate traffic circulations and/or if the facility
is not visible from a public right-of-way; and
         (c)   Increase: The Planning Commission may approve an increase in the
number and size of signs upon finding that such an increase is compatible with
adjacent businesses.
      3.   Reduction In Landscaping: The facility shall not be located within
nor reduce existing on-site landscaping areas which may be required by this
title for any concurrent use or under any permit or approval.
      4.   Parking:
         (a)   Small Collection Facility: No additional parking spaces will be
required for customers of a small collection facility located in the
established parking lot of a commercial or industrial use.
         (b)   Mobile Recycling Units: Mobile recycling units shall have an
area clearly marked in the parking lot to prohibit other vehicular parking
during hours when the mobile unit is scheduled to be present or operating.
   (E)   Large Collection Facilities: A large collection facility is one which
occupies more than five hundred (500) square feet in area or is located on a
separate parcel, not associated with an existing use, and may have a permanent
structure or structures. Large collection facilities shall comply with the
provisions of this section, in addition to the provisions of the zone district
in which it is located.
      1.   Location: Facility shall be located a minimum distance of five-
hundred feet (500'), or as determined by the Planning Commission, from the
property line of any lot zoned or planned for residential use.
      2.   Items Accepted: Shall accept only glass, metal, and plastic beverage
containers, paper and reusable items;
      3.   Screening; Noise: Facility shall be screened from the public right-
of-way by operating in an enclosed building or within an area enclosed by an
opaque fence or wall at least six feet (6') in height with landscaping and
shall meet all applicable noise standards in this title.
      4.   Setbacks, Landscaping: Setbacks and landscape requirements shall be
those provided for the zone district in which the facility is located.
      5.   Storage:
         (a)   All exterior storage of recyclable materials shall be in fully
enclosed containers which are covered, secured and maintained in good
condition. Uncontained piles of recyclable materials are prohibited.
         (b)   Facilities shall not leave recyclable materials outside of
containers when attendant is not present.
         (c)   No storage, excluding truck trailers and overseas containers,
shall be visible above the height of the fencing.
         (d)   Storage of flammable materials and acceptance of recyclable
flammable materials is prohibited.
      6.   Site Litter: The site shall be maintained free of litter and any
other undesirable materials, and shall be cleaned of loose debris on a daily
basis.
      7.   Site Area And Layout: Space shall be provided on site for a queue of
six (6) vehicles or the anticipated peak customer load, whichever is higher, to
circulate and to deposit recyclable materials, except where the Planning
Commission determines that allowing overflow traffic above six (6) vehicles is
compatible with the surrounding land uses.
      8.   Parking: One (1) parking space shall be provided for each commercial
vehicle operated by the recycling facility. Parking requirements shall be as
provided for in section
6-14-3, except that parking requirements for employees may be reduced when it
can be shown that parking spaces are not necessary such as when employees are
transported in a company vehicle to a work facility.
      9.   Noise: Noise levels shall not exceed sixty five (65) dBA as measured
at the property line of residentially zoned property, and shall not exceed
seventy-five (75) dBA at any point on the property.
      10.   Hours: Facilities shall operate only during the hours between seven
o'clock (7:00) A.M. and seven o'clock (7:00) P.M.
      11.   After Hours Containers: Large collection facilities shall not
accept the donation of recyclable materials during non-operational hours.
      12.   Litter: Facility areas shall be kept free of litter and any other
undesirable material and the containers shall be clearly marked to identify the
type of material that may be deposited; the facility shall display a notice
stating that no material shall be left outside the recycling containers.
      13.   Signs: The facility shall be clearly marked with the name and phone
number of the facility operator and the hours of operation; and shall be
consistent with subsection (D)2 above.
      14.   Power Driven Processing: Power driven processing, including
aluminum foil and can compacting, baling, plastic shredding or other light
processing activities necessary for efficient temporary storage and shipment of
material, may be approved at the discretion of the Planning Commission if noise
and other requirements are met.
   (F)   Processing Facilities: Processing facilities, both "light" and
"heavy", as defined in section
6-1-19, "Definitions", of this title, when permitted, shall comply with the
provisions and development standards of this section in addition to the
applicable provisions of the zone district in which the facility is located.
      1.   Location: The processing facility shall be located a minimum of one
thousand feet (1,000'), or as determined by the Planning Commission, from
property planned, zoned or occupied for residential use. All operations shall
take place within a fully enclosed building or within an area enclosed by a
solid wood or masonry fence at least six feet (6') in height.
      2.   Setbacks: Setbacks for processing buildings from property lines
shall be those provided for the zoning district in which the facility is
located, but, if the setback is less than twenty five feet (25'), the facility
shall be buffered by a landscape strip at least ten feet (10') wide along each
property line. Containers that store recyclable materials may be placed in
setback areas if said containers are regularly dropped off to and shipped off
site as part of the recyclable material deliveries of the facility.
      3.   Hours: Hours of operation shall be between seven o'clock (7:00) A.M.
and seven o'clock (7:00) P.M. The facility shall be administered by on site
personnel during the hours the facility is open.
      4.   Noise: Noise levels shall not exceed sixty five (65) dBA as measured
at the property line of residentially zoned or occupied property, and shall not
exceed seventy-five (75) dBA at any point.
      5.   Signage: Sign criteria shall be those specified in chapter 15, "Sign
Regulations", of this title. In addition, the facility shall be clearly marked
with the name and phone number of the facility operator and the hours of
operation.
      6.   After Hours Containers: Processing facilities shall not accept the
donation of recyclable materials during non-operational hours.
      7.   Maintenance Of Donation Areas: Donation areas shall be kept free of
litter, debris, and any other undesirable material. The containers shall be
clearly marked to identify the type of material that may be deposited. Facility
shall display a notice that no material shall be left outside the recycling
containers.
      8.   Nuisances: No dust, fumes, smoke, vibration or odor above ambient
level may be detectable on neighboring properties.
      9.   Power Driven Processing: Power driven processing shall be permitted,
provided all noise level requirements are met. Light processing facilities are
limited to baling, briquetting, crushing, compacting, grinding, shredding and
sorting or source separating recyclable materials, and repairing of reusable
materials.
      10.   Size Of Light Processing Facility: A light processing facility
shall be no larger than forty five thousand (45,000) square feet and shall have
no more than an average of two (2) outbound truck shipments of material per day
and may not shred, compact or bale ferrous metals, other than food and beverage
containers.
      11.   Used Motor Oil: A processing facility may accept used motor oil for
recycling from the generator in accordance with California Health and Safety
Code section 25250.11.
      12.   Exterior Storage: All exterior storage of material shall be in
sturdy containers or enclosures which are covered, secured and maintained in
good condition or may be baled or placed on pallets. Storage containers for
flammable material shall be constructed of nonflammable material. Oil storage
shall be in containers approved by the Kern County Public Health Services
Department; no storage, excluding truck trailers and overseas containers, shall
be visible above the height of the fencing.
      13.   Litter: Site shall be maintained free of litter, debris, and any
other undesirable materials, shall be cleaned of loose debris on a daily basis,
and shall be secured from unauthorized entry and removal of materials when
attendants are not present.
      14.   Area: Space shall be provided on site for the anticipated peak load
of customers to circulate, park and deposit recyclable materials. If the
facility is open to the public, space shall be provided for a minimum queueing
of ten (10) customers, except where the Planning Commission determines that
allowing overflow traffic above ten (10) vehicles is compatible with
surrounding businesses and public safety.
      15.   Parking: One parking space shall be provided for each commercial
vehicle operated by the processing center. Parking requirements shall otherwise
be provided for in section
6-14-3.
   (G)   Site Cleanup Required: The operator of any recycling collection or
processing facility shall, on a daily basis, remove any and all recyclable
materials or solid wastes which have accumulated or are deposited outside the
containers, bins or enclosures intended as receptacles for such materials. Upon
failure to remove said materials, the City may deem them to be abandoned and
may enter the site to remove the materials. The property owner of the premises
and other operator of the facility shall be liable for the full cost of any
such cleanup work performed by the City. (Ord. 768-08, 8-19-2008; amd. Ord.
832-18, 4-17-2018; Ord. 844-21, 11-16-2021)
6-12-23: ACCESSORY DWELLING UNITS:
   (A)    Intent: This section is intended to ensure that accessory dwelling
units located in residential districts do not adversely impact adjacent
residential parcels or the surrounding neighborhood and are developed in a
manner which protects the integrity of the residential district, while
providing for needed housing opportunities for owners of eligible parcels.
   (B)   Applicability: The provisions of this section shall apply to all lots
that are occupied with a single-family dwelling within residential zone
districts. Accessory dwelling units (ADUs) are not calculated for the maximum
allowable density for the lot upon which the unit is located. All ADUs are
considered a residential use that is consistent with the General Plan and
zoning designations for the lot.
   (C)   Development Standards: The following standards shall apply to all
accessory dwelling units:
      1.   Limitation: Only one ADU is permitted per lot with an existing
single-family or up to a four-unit residence. Multiple-family residential
developments may have up to two (2) ADU units.
      2.   Sale Prohibited; Rental: The units are prohibited from being sold
separate from the primary residence, but may be rented.
      3.   Junior Accessory Dwelling Unit or jADU: An ADU within an existing
space of the primary single-family residence, and are subject to:
         (a)   Only one (1) jADU is permitted per single-family residence. The
single-family residence is permitted one (1) jADU and one (1) attached or
detached ADU subject to the provisions of section 4 below.
         (b)   The applicable Building Code at time of permit application.
         (c)   Shall be a minimum of seventy (70) square feet in size.
         (d)   Providing an independent exterior access from primary residence.
         (d)   Sufficient setbacks for fire safety.
         (e)   An ADU within the existing space of a primary residence shall
not reduce floor area of the primary residence to less than one thousand
(1,000) square feet.
      4.   Attached and Detached Accessory Dwelling Units:
         (a)   Applicable Location: The lot is located within a residential
zone district and contains an existing single-family dwelling.
         (b)   Location: The ADU may be attached or detached from the existing
single-family dwelling and shall be located on the same lot as the single-
family dwelling.
         (c)   Minimum Floor Area, Maximum Unit Size: The attached or detached
ADUs shall have a minimum floor area of two hundred twenty (220) square feet
and up to:
            (1)   Six hundred (600) square feet on lots up to seven thousand
four hundred ninety-nine (7,499) square feet.
            (2)   Nine hundred (900) square feet on lots between seven thousand
five hundred (7,500) and twelve thousand four hundred ninety-nine (12,499)
square feet.
            (3)   Twelve hundred (1,200) square feet for lots twelve thousand
five hundred (12,500) square feet or greater.
         (d)   Bathroom, Kitchen Required: ADUs shall provide a full bathroom
and, at a minimum, an efficiency kitchen. A JADU may share a bathroom with the
primary residence.
         (e)   Occupancy: ADUs shall have a maximum occupancy of two (2)
persons per bedroom plus one additional person for the overall unit. Studio
units with no defined bedroom area shall have a maximum occupancy of two (2)
persons. Should a property have both an ADU and JADU, the JADU or single-family
residence must be owner-occupied.
         (f)   Standards: All structures on the lot are subject to subsection
6-4-3(B), table 4.B, “Site Development Standards”, of this title, particularly
lot coverage, except that an attached or detached ADU may be located within
four feet (4') of any side or rear property line.
         (g)   Design Standards: All attached and detached ADUs shall be
architecturally consistent with the main dwelling unit, including exterior wall
finishes, paint color, roofing materials, windows, and other architectural
details.
         (h)   Parking: The primary residence shall be compliant with section
6-14-2, table 14.A, “Off Street Automobile Parking Space Requirements”, of this
title prior to approval of an ADU on the same lot.
            (1)   Parking for the ADU shall be provided at a rate of one space
per bedroom or per unit, whichever is less.
            (2)   Required parking shall be a paved space and be provided on
the same lot as the primary residence and ADU.
            (3)   The required parking spaces may be accommodated by an
available tandem space on an existing driveway or by providing additional
driveway space or a parking area accessible from an alley.
            (4)   A driveway in the front yard of a lot shall not exceed fifty
percent (50%) of the width of the lot.
         (i)   Garage, Parking: A garage structure may be converted to an ADU
if it meets the standards of this section. If garage conversion occupies the
required spaces for the primary residence, new parking for the primary
residence shall be provided per section
6-14-2, table 14.A of this title.
         (j)   Fire Sprinklers: An ADU shall not be required to provide fire
sprinklers if they were not required of the primary residence.
         (k)   Conversions: Conversions of accessory structures are not subject
to any additional development standard, such as unit size, height, and lot
coverage requirements, and shall be from existing space that can be made safe
under building and safety codes.
      5.   Sewer and Water Utilities: Accessory dwelling units shall have
adequate water supply and sewer service. An ADU is not required to have a
separate service connection and shall not have a separate meter.
   (D)   Applications Requirements: Accessory dwelling units shall be reviewed
and permitted through a building permit application, which will determine
compliance with subsection (C) of this section. The Planning Director, or their
designee, may approve an ADU that is not in compliance with subsection (C) of
this section as set forth in subsection (E) of this section.
   (E)   Review Process for ADUs Not Complying with Development Standards: An
ADU that does not comply with the development standards of this section may be
permitted through a site plan review at the discretion of the Planning Director
and project assistance team subject to findings in subsection (F) of this
section.
   (F)   Findings:
      1.   Approval: The Planning Director and project assistance team may
waive, reduce, or amend required parking requirements, setback standards,
occupancy limits, or other ADU and site development standards if the strict or
literal application and enforcement of the standard would result in unnecessary
hardship, excepting financial hardships, not otherwise shared by others within
the surrounding area.
      2.   Denial: The Planning Director and project assistance team may deny a
permit for an ADU if the waived standards are found to be detrimental to the
public health and safety or would introduce unreasonable privacy impacts to the
immediate neighbors.
      3.   Time Frames: An application for the creation of an ADU or JADU shall
be deemed approved (not just subject to ministerial approval) if the local
agency has not acted on the completed application within 60 days. (Ord. 825-17,
4-4-2017; amd. Ord. 832-18, 4-17-2018; Ord. 846-22, 3-15-2022; Ord. 849-22, 12-
6-2022)
6-12-24: SELF-STORAGE WAREHOUSES:
   (A)   Intent: This section is intended to ensure that self- storage
warehouse operations, commonly known as "miniwarehouses", do not result in an
adverse impact on adjacent properties by reason of parking demand, traffic
generation, fire, or safety hazard, or visual blight. The special conditions
contained in this section are intended to differentiate self-service storage
warehousing uses from more intensive wholesale or general warehousing uses,
especially in regard to the differing parking requirements for these uses.
   (B)   Applicability: The provisions of this section shall apply to all new
self-storage warehouse uses and to all existing facilities at such a time the
storage area of an existing business is substantially expanded or modified, as
defined in this title.
   (C)   Development Standards:
      1.   Access And Parking:
         (a)   Driveways adjacent to parking lanes shall be twelve feet (12')
in width for one-way traffic and twenty four feet (24') in width for two-way
traffic.
         (b)   Access and circulation shall be designed to eliminate the need
to back out of any drive or access.
         (c)   One parking space shall be provided for each two hundred (200)
square feet of floor area within the office and/or caretakers' quarters;
however, a minimum of four (4) parking spaces shall be provided.
         (d)   The parking standards specified in this section for this use
shall be applicable to this use only.
      2.   Outside Storage: No storage of materials outside an enclosed
building may be permitted unless expressly designated for such purposes and
approved as a part of the conditional use permit for the site. (Ord. 768-08, 8-
19-2008; amd. Ord. 832-18, 4-17-2018)
6-12-25: SERVICE STATIONS:
   (A)   Intent: This section is intended to ensure that service stations do
not result in adverse impacts on adjacent land uses, especially residential
uses. The traffic, glare and uses associated with service stations,
particularly those which are open twenty four (24) hours a day, may be
incompatible with adjacent land uses. To protect the health, safety and general
welfare of the City and its residents, these special regulations shall be
imposed on the development and operations of service stations.
   (B)   Applicability: A service station shall comply with the provisions of
this section in addition to the property development standards and the permit
procedures for the zone district in which it is to be located. The provisions
of this section and this title, as applicable, shall apply to all new service
stations, to all existing service stations at such a time as those existing
stations may come before the project assistance team for an expansion of twenty
five percent (25%) or greater in floor area, a remodeling, or any other
development that would cost more than fifty percent (50%) of the value of the
improvements on the parcel at the time of remodeling, excluding land value.
   (C)   Minimum Development Standards:
      1.   Minimum Street Frontage: Each parcel shall have a minimum street
frontage of one hundred feet (100') on at least one abutting street.
      2.   Setbacks: No building or structure, except canopies as provided
below, shall be located within thirty feet (30') of any right-of-way line, or
within twenty feet (20') of any interior parcel line.
      3.   Canopies: Canopies shall be located no closer than ten feet (10')
from any property line.
      4.   Gasoline Pumps: Gasoline pumps shall be located no closer than
twenty feet (20') from any property line.
      5.   Electric Vehicle (EV) Charging Stations: All new service station
developments and existing service stations that install additional fueling
pumps shall adhere to the following:
         (a)   All new service station developments shall install new EV
charging stations, and make available for public use, at a rate of one electric
charging station for every four (4) fueling stations (i.e., 1 to 4 fuel pumps =
1 EV station, 5 to 8 fuel pumps = 2 EV stations, etc.).
         (b)   Existing service stations that install additional fueling pumps
shall install new EV charging stations, and make available for public use, at
the same rate as in subsection (C)5(a) of this section.
         (c)   EV charging stations installed at service stations shall be a
level 2 240-volt station or DC fast charging 440-volt station. A standard 120-
volt outlet may be made available at an EV charging station, but will not
satisfy the requirements of this section.
         (d)   EV charging stations may be located in required parking spaces
of the service station.
      6.   Walls: Service stations shall be separated from adjacent property
which is zoned or used for residential purposes, by a decorative masonry wall
of not less than six feet (6') in height, as approved by the project assistance
team. Materials, textures, colors and design of all walls shall be compatible
with on site development and adjacent properties. No wall higher than forty
inches (40") in height shall be constructed within five feet (5') of a driveway
entrance or vehicle accessway which opens onto a street or alley. The wall
shall be constructed to ensure a clear cross view of pedestrians on the
sidewalk, alley or elsewhere by motorists entering or exiting the parcel.
      7.   Paving: The site shall be entirely paved, except for buildings and
landscaping.
      8.   Landscaping: The service station site shall be landscaped pursuant
to the following standards:
         (a)   A minimum of fifteen percent (15%) of the site shall be
landscaped, which may include a planting strip of at least five feet (5') wide
along all interior parcel lines, nondriveway street frontages and areas
adjacent to buildings. Planters shall be surrounded by masonry or concrete
curbs and so arranged to preclude motor vehicles from driving across the
sidewalk at locations other than access driveways. Permanent opaque landscaping
or berming shall be provided and maintained in the planters at a height of not
less than three feet (3') above the average adjacent grade.
         (b)   A minimum of one hundred fifty (150) square foot landscaped area
shall be provided at the intersection of two (2) property lines at a street
corner.
      9.   Access And Circulation:
         (a)   Driveways shall be located no closer than fifty feet (50') from
a street intersection and fifteen feet (15') from a residential property line
or alley and shall not interfere with the movement and safety of vehicular and
pedestrian traffic. Locations of all driveways shall be subject to the approval
of the Public Works Director.
         (b)   All lubrication bays and wash racks shall be located within a
fully enclosed building. Access to the service bays and wash racks shall not be
located within fifty feet (50') of a residentially zoned property, and shall be
oriented, when practical, away from public rights-of-way.
      10.   Air And Water: Each service station shall provide air and water to
customers at a convenient location during hours when gasoline is dispensed.
      11.   Restrooms: Each service station shall provide a men's and women's
public restroom that is accessible to the general public, including physically
disabled persons, during all hours the service station is open to the public.
Restrooms shall be identified by placing entrances or signage in a location
that is clearly visible from the gasoline service area or cashier station, and
shall be maintained on a regular basis.
      12.   Vending Machines: Coin operated vending machines may be permitted
within or abutting a structure for the purpose of dispensing items commonly
found in service stations, such as refreshments and maps.
      13.   Location Of Activities: All repair and service activities and
operations shall be conducted entirely within an enclosed service building,
except as follows:
         (a)   The dispensing of petroleum products, water and air from pump
islands.
         (b)   Replacement service activities, such as wiper blades, fuses,
radiator caps and lamps.
         (c)   The sale of items from vending machines placed next to the main
building in a designated area not to exceed thirty two (32) square feet.
         (d)   The display of merchandise offered for customer convenience on
each pump island; provided, that the aggregate display area on each island
shall not exceed twelve (12) square feet and that the products shall be
enclosed in a specially designated case.
         (e)   Motor vehicle products displayed along and within three feet
(3') of the front of the building. Such display areas shall be limited to five
feet (5') in height and not more than ten feet (10') in length.
      14.   Refuse Storage And Disposal: Trash areas shall be provided and
screened on at least three (3) sides from public view by a solid decorative
wall not less than five feet (5') in height. Permanent opaque panel gates shall
be installed on all openings to the trash area.
         (a)   All trash shall be deposited in the trash area and the gates
leading thereto shall be maintained in working order and shall remain closed
except when in use.
         (b)   Refuse bins shall be provided and placed in a location
convenient for customers.
         (c)   Trash areas shall not be used for storage. The premises shall be
kept in a neat and orderly condition at all times and all improvements shall be
maintained in a condition of reasonable repair and appearance. No used or
discarded automotive parts or equipment, or permanently disabled, junked or
wrecked vehicles, may be stored outside the main building.
      15.   Equipment Rental: Rental of equipment, such as trailers and trucks,
may be permitted; provided, that:
         (a)   The rental equipment does not occupy or reduce the availability
of the required parking for the automobile service station.
         (b)   The rental equipment storage location does not interfere with
access and circulation on and around the site.
         (c)   The rental of the equipment is incidental and secondary to the
main activity on the site.
      16.   Operation Of Facilities:
         (a)   The service station shall at all times be operated in a manner
which is not detrimental to surrounding properties or residents. Site design
and activities shall be conducted to avoid and minimize:
            (1) Damage or nuisances from noise, smoke, odor, dust or vibration.
            (2) Hazards from explosion, contamination or fire.
         (b)   Service station hours of operation shall be as conditioned in
conditional use permit; a security plan shall be developed by the applicant and
approved by the Police Department prior to issuance of a building permit.
   (D)   Abandoned Service Stations:
      1.   Removal Of Facilities: Where service stations become vacant or cease
operation for more than one hundred eighty (180) days, the owner shall be
required to remove all underground storage tanks (in a manner acceptable to all
applicable permitting/regulatory agencies), remove all gasoline pumps and pump
islands, and remove all freestanding canopies.
      2.   Evidence Of Operation: To confirm that a use has not been abandoned,
the owner shall provide evidence to the Planning Department with written
verification prior to the one hundred eightieth day that an allocation of gas
has been received and operation of the station will commence within thirty (30)
days of the date of written correspondence.
      3.   Resumption Of Operations: Resumption of service station operations
after the one hundred eighty (180) days, specified above, may be permitted upon
review and approval, or conditional approval by the Planning Commission:
         (a)   Replanting existing landscape areas;
         (b)   Installing new landscape areas;
         (c)   Painting of structures;
         (d)   Upgrading or installing trash enclosures;
         (e)   Striping parking spaces;
         (f)   Installation of signs in conformance with chapter 15 of this
title;
         (g)   Resurfacing vehicle access and parking areas; and
         (h)   Installation of missing street improvements.
   (E)   Converted Service Stations: The conversion of service station
structures and sites to another use may require upgrading and remodeling,
including, but not limited to, removal of all gasoline appurtenances, removal
of canopies, removal of pump islands, removal of overhead doors, additional
landscaping, missing street improvements to conform to access regulations, and
exterior remodeling. (Ord. 824-16, 12-20-2016; amd. Ord. 832-18, 4-17-2018)
6-12-26: SIDEWALK CAFES:
   (A)   Intent: This section is intended to regulate the establishment and
operation of sidewalk cafes, which can enhance the pedestrian ambiance of the
City, and to ensure that they do not adversely impact adjacent properties and
surrounding neighborhoods.
   (B)   Applicability: A sidewalk cafe shall comply with the provisions of
this section and the property development standard and procedures for the zone
district in which is it located.
   (C)   Minimum Development Requirements:
      1.   Accessory Use: A sidewalk cafe shall be conducted as an accessory
use to a legally established restaurant or other eating and drinking
establishment.
      2.   Enclosure: Awnings or umbrellas may be used in conjunction with a
sidewalk cafe, but there shall be no permanent roof or shelter over the
sidewalk cafe area without written approval from the Director of Public Works.
Awnings shall be adequately secured, and shall comply with the provisions of
the latest edition of the California Building Code adopted by the City.
      3.   Fixtures: The furnishings of the sidewalk cafe shall consist only of
movable tables, chairs and umbrellas. Lighting fixtures may be permanently
affixed onto the exterior front of the main building.
      4.   Refuse Storage Area: No structure or enclosure to accommodate
storage of trash or garbage shall be erected or placed on or adjacent to the
sidewalk cafe on either a public sidewalk or public right-of-way. Sidewalk
cafes shall remain clear of litter at all times.
      5.   Hours Of Operation: The hours of operation of the sidewalk cafe
shall be limited to the hours of operation of the associated restaurants or
eating and drinking establishments. (Ord. 768-08, 8-19-2008; amd. Ord. 832-18,
4-17-2018)
6-12-27: SURFACE PARKING LOTS:
   (A)   Intent: This section is intended to ensure that commercial parking
facilities and surface parking lots located adjacent to residential districts
will not adversely effect nearby residents or diminish the integrity of a
residential district.
   (B)   Applicability: All commercial parking facilities, including primary
commercial parking uses, and accessory parking lots for associated commercial,
industrial, institutional and public uses, shall comply with the provisions of
chapter 14 of this title, in addition to the applicable provisions of the zone
district in which such a use is located.
   (C)   Minimum Development Standards:
      1.   Structures Permitted: A parking guard or attendant shelter may be
permitted; provided, that the shelter does not exceed seventy five (75) square
feet, is not more than twelve feet (12') in height, is not located in any
required setback area, and is located at least fifty feet (50') from any
adjacent residential parcel.
      2.   Vehicle Access: Where practical, vehicular access to parking lots
from public streets shall be located a minimum of forty feet (40') from any
residentially zoned parcel. (Ord. 768-08, 8-19-2008; amd. Ord. 832-18, 4-17-
2018)
6-12-28: SWIMMING POOLS AND RECREATIONAL COURTS (PRIVATE):
   (A)   Intent: This section is intended to ensure that the construction of
swimming pools and recreational courts within residential districts is
consistent with the residential character of the neighborhood.
   (B)   Applicability: The provisions of this section shall apply to the
construction of swimming pools or recreational courts located on individual
residential lots as accessory uses to primary residential use of the same lot.
   (C)   Permit Required For Accessory Use: Swimming pools and recreational
courts may be permitted as an accessory use to a primary residential use,
subject to securing a City building permit.
   (D)   Swimming Pools:
      1.   Setback: Swimming pools shall be set back a minimum of five feet
(5') from the rear property line and five feet (5') from the side property
lines, excepting that the restrictions of subsection (D)2 of this section, as
measured perpendicularly to the edge of the swimming pool coping. Encroachment
of up to two feet (2') into this setback area may be granted by the building
official upon review and approval of stamped engineering calculations
demonstrating that such encroachment will not compromise the structural
integrity of any surrounding buildings or structures.
      2.   Location Restrictions: A swimming pool shall not, in any
circumstance, be located within a side yard setback area of the street side of
a reverse corner lot, nor shall a swimming pool be located within a front yard
setback area.
      3.   Equipment Location: Swimming pool equipment shall not be located
within a street side yard setback area nor in a front yard setback area.
      4.   Distance To Building: Swimming pools shall not be located closer
than ten feet (10') to any building, unless stamped engineering calculation,
reviewed and approved by the building official, demonstrate that placement of a
swimming pool closer than ten feet (10') to any building will not compromise
the structural integrity of that building and/or that building foundation.
      5.   Building Code Compliance: Swimming pools, spas and hot tubs shall
comply with "special use and occupancy" requirements of the latest City adopted
addition of the California Building Code.
   (E)   Recreational Courts:
      1.   Fence Height: The maximum height of fences enclosing recreational
courts shall be less than ten feet (10').
      2.   Setback: Recreational courts shall be set back a minimum of ten feet
(10') from the side property lines, ten feet (10') from the rear property line,
and fifty feet (50') from the front property line.
      3.   Lighting: A maximum of eight (8) lights may be permitted. Said
lights shall not exceed a height of twenty two feet (22').
      4.   Design, Use Of Lighting: All lighting shall:
         (a)   Be designed, constructed, mounted and maintained so that the
light source is cut off when viewed from any point above five feet (5'),
measured at the lot line; and
         (b)   Be used only between the hours of seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. and
ten o'clock (10:00) P.M.
      5.   Surface: The surface of a recreational court shall be designated,
painted, colored and/or treated to reduce reflection from any lighting thereon.
      6.   Minimum Standards: The above listed standards shall be considered
minimum standards. The Planning Agency may impose more stringent standards if
it is determined that such standards are required to achieve consistency with
the intent and purpose of the General Plan and this title. (Ord. 768-08, 8-19-
2008; amd. Ord. 832-18, 4-17-2018)
6-12-29: VEHICLE REPAIR FACILITIES:
   (A)   Intent: This section is intended to regulate the establishment and
operation of vehicle repair facilities to reduce or eliminate potential noise,
fumes, litter and parking problems associated with motor vehicle repair shops.
The provisions of this section are further intended to ensure that vehicle
repair facilities are compatible with adjacent and surrounding land uses.
   (B)   Applicability: Each vehicular repair facility, including those which
may be part of and incorporated within a vehicle dealership, shall comply with
the provisions of this section, in addition to the development standards and
permit procedures of the zone district in which it is to be located and with
other applicable provisions of this title.
   (C)   Minimum Development Standards:
      1.   Paving: The portion of the site devoted to vehicle repair facilities
shall be entirely paved, except for buildings and landscaping.
      2.   Structures: When practical, entrances to individual service bays
shall not face public rights-of-way or abutting residential parcels.
      3.   Repair Activities: All repair activities, operations and storage of
materials shall be conducted entirely within an enclosed building. Outdoor
hoists are prohibited.
      4.   Enclosure: Repair facilities, performing body and fender work, or
similar noise generating activities, shall be conducted within a fully enclosed
structure. All painting shall occur within a fully enclosed booth that meets
all requirements of the California Building Code and section
6-13-3, "Air Quality", of this title.
      5.   Litter: The premises shall be kept in a neat and orderly condition
at all times and all improvements shall be maintained in a condition of
reasonable repair and appearance. No new, used or discarded automotive parts,
equipment or permanently disabled, junked or wrecked vehicles may be stored
outside of a building.
      6.   Storage: Exterior parking area shall be used for employee and
customer parking only, and not for the repair or finishing work or long term
(over 1 week) storage of vehicles. No vehicles to be repaired shall be parked
or stored on any street or alley.
      7.   Hazardous Materials: Any handling, treatment, storage or use of
hazardous materials shall be subject to the requirements of section
6-11-11, "Hazardous Materials Management", of this title. (Ord. 768-08, 8-19-
2008; amd. Ord. 832-18, 4-17-2018)
6-12-30: PRIVATE SMOKING LOUNGES AND TOBACCO SHOPS:
   (A)   Purpose: The purpose of this section is to establish regulations for
private smoking lounges and tobacco shops for the purpose of protecting the
public health, safety and welfare while eliminating or mitigating the
undesirable land use impacts associated with smoking lounges and tobacco shops.
   (B)   Applicability: Private smoking lounges and tobacco shops, as defined
in section
6-1-19, "Definitions", of this title, shall be permitted in the General
Commercial (GC), Downtown Commercial (DC), Mixed Use (MU) and Industrial (I)
Zone Districts, subject to the approval of a conditional use permit in
compliance with section
6-2-5 of this title, and are subject to the development standards outlined in
this section.
   (C)   Conditional Use Permit:
      1.   Required: It is unlawful for any entity or business to engage in,
conduct or carry on, in or upon any premises, a private smoking lounge or
tobacco shop in the absence of an approved conditional use permit pursuant to
the provisions contained within this section and all other applicable
provisions of State law, this Code and this title.
      2.   Application: Prior to the establishment of any private smoking
lounge within the City, a conditional use permit shall be applied for and
reviewed and approved by the Planning Commission pursuant to the provisions
contained within section
6-2-5 of this title.
      3.   Increase, Expansion: Any increase in the maximum building occupancy
rate, physical expansion or modification to the floor area of an existing
smoking lounge shall require the prior review and approval by the Planning
Commission of a new or modified conditional use permit.
   (D)   Development And Maintenance Standards:
      1.   Locations Allowed: Private smoking lounges may be conditionally
permitted within the GC, DC, MU and I Zoning Districts.
      2.   Distance Requirements From Other Uses: No private smoking lounge or
tobacco shop may be located within five hundred feet (500') of another smoking
lounge or tobacco shop, nor any park, arcade, preschool, private or public K
through 12 school, designated route to schools or daycare facilities, as
measured from property line to property line.
      3.   State Board Of Equalization Cigarette And Tobacco License: Every
existing and newly established private smoking lounge or tobacco shop shall
submit a copy of their license issued by the State of California Board of
Equalization allowing the business to sell cigarettes and tobacco products to
the public.
      4.   Outdoor Seating Areas: No outdoor seating or gather space for
smoking is permitted. All smoking related activities shall occur indoors.
Outdoor seating may be permitted for the consumption of food and beverages or
for nonsmoking gathering space only.
   (E)   Operating Requirements:
      1.   Private Smoking Lounges: All private smoking lounges shall comply
with the following operational requirements:
         (a)   There shall be no on site smoking or inhaling of any illegal or
prescription drug or substance at any time.
         (b)   The business shall be owner operated or otherwise exempt from
the prohibition of smoking in the workplace set forth in California Labor Code
section 6404.5.
         (c)   No person under eighteen (18) years of age shall be permitted
within any area of the business premises where the smoking of tobacco or other
substances is allowed.
         (d)   No live entertainment shall be permitted within a smoking lounge
unless approved under a conditional use permit.
         (e)   No alcoholic beverages shall be served or sold for on site
consumption in conjunction with a private smoking lounge without the prior
review and approval of a conditional use permit.
         (f)   No window coverings shall prevent visibility of the interior of
the smoking lounge from outside the premises. Any proposed window tinting shall
be approved in advance by the Planning Director and Police Chief. All signs
shall comply with chapter 15 of this title.
         (g)   The interior of the business shall maintain adequate
illumination to make the conduct of patrons and employees within the premises
readily discernable. The actual lighting level shall be approved in advance by
the Planning Director and Police Chief and maintained during all hours of
operation.
         (h)   Parking shall be provided using the standards contained in
section
6-14-2, table 14.A of this title, eating and drinking facilities.
         (i)   The maximum occupancy limit of a smoking lounge shall not exceed
the lesser of:
            (1) That established by the Kern County Fire Department; or
            (2) As a specific condition of approval for the conditional use
permit approved for the facility pursuant to this section.
         (j)   The business shall be in compliance with all other City, State
and Federal laws at all times, including all California Occupational Safety and
Administration (Cal OSHA) requirements. Should any conflict arise, the Planning
Director shall determine which law shall prevail.
         (k)   Smoking advertisements, products, paraphernalia and promotions
shall not be located within six feet (6') of a business window.
         (l)   The sale or rental of any smoking devices (i.e., pipes, etc.)
shall comply with the California Health and Safety Code at all times.
         (m)   The use of a hookah or other water pipe smoking devices within a
private smoking lounge is prohibited.
         (n)   Furnishings shall not encroach into any public right-of- way,
required pedestrian accessway, landscaping or parking area at any time.
         (o)   All required emergency access/exits and fire lanes shall be
provided and maintained at all times, as determined by the Kern County Fire
Department.
         (p)   Outside furnishings shall not contain advertising or depict any
smoking or tobacco related product or product name, logo, trademark or similar
identification or advertising display. The design, color and material of the
furnishings shall be compatible with the building and reviewed and approved by
the Planning Director prior to installation.
         (q)   Adequate ash and trash receptacles shall be provided on site at
all times. The design, color and material of the trash receptacles shall be
compatible with the building.
         (r)   The smoking lounge owner and operator shall be responsible for
the removal of all trash, debris and spilled food or beverage items in a timely
manner. In addition, all outdoor seating areas shall be maintained in a clean,
sanitary and trash free manner at all times.
         (s)   Full height walls from the ground to the underside of the deck/
ceiling above shall be provided to separate the smoking lounge from any other
contiguous business.
         (t)   Separate return, supply and condensation air for heating,
ventilation and air conditioning (HVAC) systems shall be provided for every
smoking lounge to prevent fugitive smoke from entering into an adjacent tenant
suite or building.
         (u)   All smoking lounges must be located within buildings provided
with a Kern County Fire Department approved automatic fire suppression system.
         (v)   The business shall comply with all Fire and Building Code
requirements at all times.
         (w)   All entry and exit doors to the business shall remain closed at
all times, except for the ingress and egress of patrons and employees.
         (x)   Private smoking lounges are prohibited from displaying,
providing or selling items considered as drug paraphernalia per title VIII,
chapter 11 of this Code.
      2.   Tobacco Shops: All tobacco shops shall comply with the following
operational requirements:
         (a)   The operator of the tobacco shop shall display their current
license issued by the State Board of Equalization to sell cigarettes and
tobacco products to the public.
         (b)   No tobacco products shall be accessible to tobacco shop patrons.
Shop owners and employees shall be responsible for the control of selling all
available tobacco products.
         (c)   The selling of tobacco products shall be in compliance with all
standards of the State Business and Professions Code.
         (d)   Tobacco shops are prohibited from displaying, providing or
selling items that would be considered drug paraphernalia per title VIII,
chapter 11 of this Code.
   (F)   Application Requirements:
      1.   Included Documents And Information: Each conditional use permit
application for a smoking lounge and/or tobacco shop shall include:
         (a)   All application submittal fees;
         (b)   Site plan, floor plan and elevations with all applicable items
and information listed on the City's planning application submittal checklist,
including information regarding all proposed interior and exterior
modifications;
         (c)   A complete written description of all aspects of the proposed
operation, including, but not limited to: the hours of operation, number of
employees on each shift; and the proposed interior and exterior improvements
with sufficient detail to demonstrate the quality and character of the
establishment, including how the proposed operation complies with the
development, maintenance and operation standards of this section;
         (d)   The exact nature and location of the activity for which the
conditional use permit is requested and an estimate of the maximum number of
patrons to be served at the establishment during full capacity;
         (e)   All goods, services and products offered on site;
         (f)   A security plan for the control of pedestrian and vehicular
traffic and to prevent unlawful conduct and ensuring the health and safety of
all patrons;
         (g)   A vicinity map identifying the location of the proposed business
and all surrounding land uses within a five hundred foot (500') radius around
the proposed establishment; and
         (h)   All other details and information deemed necessary to evaluate
the proposed project application, as determined by the Director of Community
Development.
      2.   False Information; Revocation: Submitting false information on the
application shall constitute grounds for denial of the conditional use permit
or future revocation of any approved conditional use permit.
   (G)   Required Findings:
      1.   Specified: In addition to the findings contained within subsection
6-2-5(E) of this title, the following findings shall be required for every
private smoking lounge or tobacco shop. In all cases, the applicant shall have
the burden of proof to show the Planning Commission, by relevant evidence, the
existence of facts which support the conclusion that the standards, as set
forth in this section, are met:
         (a)   The private smoking lounge or tobacco shop is consistent with
the goals and objectives of the General Plan, zoning ordinances, and any local,
regional, or State laws.
         (b)   The private smoking lounge or tobacco shop will not impair the
integrity and character of the subject zoning district, and will comply with
the provisions of this section and all other applicable City, State and Federal
regulations.
      2.   Denial: Any decision to deny a request to establish, construct or
modify a private smoking lounge or tobacco shop shall be supported by evidence
contained in the written record documenting, with findings, why the smoking
lounge cannot be approved.
      3.   Appeal: Any request to appeal a decision to approve or deny a
smoking lounge application shall comply with the requirements contained within
section
6-2-19 of this title.
   (H)   Application To Existing Businesses:
      1.   Private Smoking Lounge: Any private smoking lounge lawfully existing
as of the effective date hereof (i.e., land use approval, business license,
etc.) that becomes nonconforming by reason of the adoption of this section
shall be brought into full compliance with the provisions of this chapter not
later than five (5) years following the effective date hereof.
      2.   Tobacco Shop: Any business or operation existing as a tobacco shop,
as its principal use or as an accessory use, as of the effective date of this
chapter (i.e., land use approval, business license, etc.) that becomes
nonconforming by reason of the adoption of this section shall not be required
to be brought into full compliance with the provisions of this section. An
existing tobacco shop business or operation shall be required to file for
conditional use permit if any of the following occur:
         (a)   The business or operation does not have a current State Board of
Equalization cigarette and tobacco license.
         (b)   The business or property owner proposes an expansion or
alteration to the business, building or operations.
      3.   Exception For Location, Parking Requirements: No lawfully existing
private smoking lounge or tobacco shop shall be deemed to be nonconforming, for
purposes of this section, for failure to comply with the location and parking
requirements after the effective date of the adoption of this section.
   (I)   Modifications, Waivers Or Variance: Modifications, waivers or a
variance to the standards and provisions contained within this section may be
granted by the Planning Commission, subject to the approval of a conditional
use permit and variance application, per section
6-2-6 of this title, if it is determined that the standards and/or provisions
which are being requested to be altered, modified or waived will not impact the
public health, safety and welfare, and are not contrary to the general purpose
and intent of this section.
   (J)   Nonconforming: Except as provided in this section, the provisions of
section
6-2-13, "Nonconforming Use And Structures", of this title shall be applicable
to all business establishments with private smoking lounges and tobacco shops.
In the event any conflict between the provisions of this section and the
provisions of section
6-2-13 of this title, the provisions of this section shall prevail.
   (K)   Revocation, Discontinuance And Enforcement:
      1.   Conditions For Revocation: Revocation of an approved conditional use
permit for a private smoking lounge or tobacco shop shall be per the provisions
of section
6-2-20, "Revocation Of Permits", of this title, if the following conditions
trigger the scheduling of a public hearing before the Planning Commission to
determine whether or not the conditional use permit issued to the business for
operating a private smoking lounge or tobacco shop shall be revoked or
modified:
         (a)   Issuance of three (3) or more collective administrative or
criminal notices of violation or citations within a twelve (12) month period
from any combination of the Kern County Fire Department, Taft building
official, Code Enforcement and/or the Police Department. However, the Police
Chief, Planning Director or the appropriate approval authority may require
immediate review at any time due to a particular incident.
         (b)   The imposition of any disciplinary action or finding of
violation by the Department of Alcoholic Beverage Control, if alcoholic
beverages are sold for on site consumption.
         (c)   The business or operation does not have a current State Board of
Equalization cigarette and tobacco license.
      2.   Applicability Of Number Of Emergency Calls: The number of emergency
calls for service to the Taft Police Department may not necessarily be used as
the singular basis for concluding that a private smoking lounge or tobacco shop
is operating as a nuisance.
      3.   Findings For Revocation: The approval authority may revoke a
conditional use permit following the procedures set forth in section
6-2-20 of this title, based on any one or more of the following findings:
         (a)   The conditional use permit was approved based on information
that was erroneous, fraudulent, misleading or misrepresented, regardless of the
intent of the entity that obtained the conditional use permit;
         (b)   The conditions of approval adopted under the conditional use
permit for the private smoking lounge or tobacco shop have been violated in
whole or in part;
         (c)   Local, State and/or Federal law was violated;
         (d)   The establishment for which the permit was issued is being
operated in an illegal, unpermitted or disorderly manner;
         (e)   The noise generated from the establishment violates the City
noise ordinance;
         (f)   The smoking lounge has had or is having an adverse impact on the
public health, safety, peace and/or general welfare;
         (g)   The smoking lounge has ceased to exist for at least ninety (90)
calendar days or more by reason of voluntary abandonment.
      4.   Discontinued Use; Public Hearing: Any conditional use permit for a
business with a private smoking lounge or tobacco shop may be revoked following
a public hearing thereon if the use is discontinued for at least ninety (90)
consecutive calendar days. The Planning Commission shall hold a noticed public
hearing to consider the revocation pursuant to section
6-2-19 of this title.
      5.   Misdemeanor Violation: Any violation to this chapter shall be
prosecuted as a misdemeanor. (Ord. 814-15, 7-7-2015; amd. Ord. 832-18, 4-17-
2018)
6-12-31: GARAGE OR YARD SALES:
   (A)   Definitions:
    GARAGE SALE OR YARD SALE OR ESTATE SALE: The display and offering for sale
to the public at large of clothing, household goods, furnishings, appliances,
tools or other items of personal property at, in or about residential premises,
which items have been acquired, accumulated and kept in the course of occupancy
by the residents of such residential premises primarily for household uses and
purposes and not for resale.
   GARAGE, YARD, ESTATE SALE SIGN: A temporary sign which announces the
directions to and advertising the sale of personal used goods, furniture or
clothing at a residence by the property owner, resident or tenant. The signs
shall be on display for a limited period of time, but no longer than the
duration of the single garage, yard or estate sale event.
   (B)   Frequency, Duration, Standards:
      1.   Permitted Zone Districts: Garage sales shall be permitted in the RS,
R-1, R-2 and R-3 Residential Zone Districts. Sales may be allowed on properties
with residential uses within the DC and MU Commercial Zone Districts.
      2.   Number Per Year: No more than four (4) sales shall be held each
calendar year.
      3.   Term: Each sale shall be no longer than three (3) consecutive days.
      4.   Conducted On Property: Sales shall be conducted on the owner's or
tenant's property. No portion of the sale shall be on the sidewalk, parkway or
in the public right-of-way.
      5.   Resale: No goods purchased or imported for resale may be offered for
sale.
      6.   Consignments: No consignment goods may be offered for sale.
      7.   Signs:
         (a)   Garage sale signs may be placed within the parkway portion of
the street right-of-way.
         (b)   Garage sale signs, whether directional or advertising, shall be
freestanding and removed after the conclusion of the sale.
         (c)   Garage sale signs placed on private property shall be done so
with the owner's permission.
         (d)   Garage sale signs shall not be placed on structures within the
parkway, such as light standards, stop signs, traffic signs, fire hydrants or
other similar structures.
   (C)   Application: An application for a yard or garage sale shall be filed
with the Planning Department for each occurrence. No fee shall be collected
with the application, however, the applicant shall comply with the provisions
of this section and this Code.
   (D)   Violation; Penalty: A violation of this section shall constitute an
infraction and will be subject to Code enforcement action, per title I, chapter
3, "Administrative Citations And Penalties", of this Code. (Ord. 815-16, 5-3-
2016; amd. Ord. 832-18, 4-17-2018)
6-12-32: COMMERCIAL CANNABIS ACTIVITY PERMITTING AND REGULATION:
   (A)   Intent And Purpose:
      1.   Federal law prohibits the possession, cultivation, use and
distribution of cannabis, and in order to serve the public health, safety, and
welfare of the residents and businesses within the City, the declared purpose
of this section is to prohibit all commercial cannabis activity within the
City, as provided in this section.
      2.   California Business and Professions Code section 19320(a) provides
that a person must hold both a State and local license to engage in commercial
cannabis activity for medical purposes. California Business and Professions
Code section 26055(e) provides that a State licensing authority shall not
approve an application for a State license for a non-medical cannabis business
if approval of the State license will violate the provisions of any local
ordinance.
      3.   The prohibition of all commercial cannabis activity, for medical,
non-medical, or any other purpose, is necessary for the preservation and
protection of the public health, safety, and welfare of the City and its
community. The prohibition of such activity is within the authority conferred
upon the City by the State law and is an exercise of its police powers to enact
and enforce regulations for the public benefit, safety, and welfare of the City
and its community.
   (B)   Definitions: For purposes of this chapter, the following definitions
shall apply, unless the context clearly indicates otherwise:
    AUMA: The Adult Use of Marijuana Act, otherwise known as Proposition 64
passed into law by the voters of California on November 9, 2016.
   ADULT USE CANNABIS: Means the non-medical use of cannabis by adults of age
twenty one (21) and over as permitted by MAUCRSA and other applicable State and
City laws.
   ADULT USE PERMITTEE: Means a person who is issued a City permit to engage in
commercial cannabis activity with respect to non-medical adult use cannabis in
accordance with applicable City law and State law.
   BCC: Is the Department of Consumer Affairs Bureau of Cannabis Control that
issues all annual and temporary State licenses for medical and adult-use
related commercial cannabis distributors, transport only, retailers and non-
storefront retailers, microbusinesses, testing laboratories, cannabis event
organizers, and temporary cannabis events.
   CUP: Means a conditional use permit issued by the City in accordance with
this Code.
   CALCANNABIS: Is the California Department of Food and Agriculture
CalCannabis Cultivation Licensing Division that issues all annual and temporary
State licenses for medical and adult-use commercial cannabis cultivation.
   CANNABIS: Shall have the meaning assigned to the term "marijuana" as set
forth in Health and Safety Code section 11018.
   CANNABIS EVENT LICENSE, TEMPORARY: Means a State commercial cannabis license
issued by the BCC subject to chapter 5, division 42 Bureau of Cannabis Control,
title 16 of the California Code of Regulations.
   CANNABIS EVENT ORGANIZER: Means an individual issued a State commercial
cannabis license by the BCC subject to chapter 5, division 42 Bureau of
Cannabis Control, title 16 of the California Code of Regulations.
   CANNABIS PERMIT: Means a permit issued by the City, and a license issued by
the State, in each case, in accordance with, and to the extent required by,
applicable State law, in order to participate in a commercial cannabis
activity, such as cultivation, manufacturing, distribution, transportation,
testing, retail sale, or delivery.
   CANNABIS PERMITTEE: Means a person who holds a cannabis permit.
   CANNABIS PREMISES: Means: 1) a building, 2) a defined portion of or unit in
a building with a separate mailing address, or 3) a parcel of real property, in
each case, where a specified user, owner, tenant, or City permittee is
utilizing the space for commercial cannabis activity. In a building with
multiple units, each defined unit shall be deemed a single cannabis premises.
   CANNABIS PRODUCT: Shall have the meaning assigned to the term "marijuana
product" as set forth in Health and Safety Code section 11018.1.
   CANOPY: Means the designated area(s) at a licensed premises, except
nurseries, that will contain mature plants at any point in time.
   CITY: Means the City of Taft.
   CITY CODE: Means the City of Taft Municipal Code.
   CITY MANAGER: Means the individual duly appointed by a majority of the City
Council to serve in the capacity as Executive Officer of the City on a
permanent or interim basis or such other official as designated by the City to
fulfill such duties.
   CITY PERMIT: Means a cannabis permit issued by the City.
   CITY PERMITTEE: Means a person that has been issued a City permit.
   COMMERCIAL CANNABIS ACTIVITY: Shall: 1) have the meaning assigned to the
term "commercial marijuana activity" as set forth in Business and Professions
Code section 26001(g) when the context of such use of the term "commercial
cannabis activity" is with respect to medical and adult use cannabis under
MAUCRSA, and 2) have the meaning assigned to the term "commercial cannabis
activity" as set forth in Business and Professions Code section 19300.5(j) when
the context of such use of the term "commercial cannabis activity" is with
respect to medical cannabis under MAUCRSA.
   CULTIVATION: Means any activity involving the planting, growing, harvesting,
drying, curing, grading, or trimming of cannabis.
   CULTIVATION, INDOOR: Means the cultivation of cannabis within a permanent
structure using exclusively artificial light or within any type of structure
using artificial light at a rate above twenty five (25) watts per square foot.
   CULTIVATION, OUTDOOR: Means the cultivation of mature cannabis without the
use of artificial lighting in the canopy area at any point in time.
   DELIVER OR DELIVERY: Means the commercial transfer or delivery of cannabis
or cannabis products to a customer, patient, primary caregiver or cannabis
permittee.
   DISTRIBUTION: Means the procurement, sale, and transport of cannabis and
cannabis products between cannabis permittees, subject to chapter 2, division
42 Bureau of Cannabis Control, title 16 California Code of Regulations.
   FULLY ENCLOSED AND SECURE STRUCTURE: Means a space within a building,
greenhouse or other structure which has a complete roof enclosure supported by
connecting walls extending from the ground to the roof, which is reasonably
secure against unauthorized entry, provides complete visual screening or is
behind fencing or other features providing complete visual screening, and which
is accessible only through one or more lockable doors and is inaccessible to
minors. For the avoidance of doubt, this shall not prohibit a full greenhouse
facility provided that the combination of fencing and other physical barriers
provides a reasonably secure barrier to entry.
   HEALTH AND SAFETY CODE: Means the California Health and Safety Code, as
amended from time to time.
   INDOOR: Means within a fully enclosed and secure structure.
   MAUCRSA: The Medical and Adult-Use Cannabis Regulation and Safety Act an
approval of Senate Bill 96 by the State legislature on June 27, 2017, effective
immediately, which amended the MCRSA and AUMA.
   MCRSA: The Medical Cannabis Regulation and Safety Act an approval of Senate
Bill 837 by the State Legislature on June 27, 2016, effective immediately,
which amended the MMRSA.
   MMRSA: The Medical Marijuana Regulation and Safety Act signed by Governor
Brown on October 9, 2015, effective January 1, 2016.
   MANUFACTURE: Means to compound, blend, extract, infuse, or otherwise make or
prepare a cannabis product.
   MEDICAL CANNABIS PERMITTEE: Means a person who is issued a City permit to
engage in commercial cannabis activity with respect to medical use cannabis in
accordance with applicable City law and State law.
   MICROBUSINESS: Means a cannabis permittee and cannabis premises that engages
in at least three (3) commercial cannabis activities on the same licensed
premises, including cultivation, manufacturing, distribution, and retail sales.
The commercial cannabis activities shall be limited to any cultivation license
type, a type 6 manufacturer license, a type 11 distributor license, type 10
retailer or type 9 non- storefront retailer license subject to chapter 4,
division 42 Bureau of Cannabis Control, title 16 California Code of
Regulations.
   MODULAR BUILDING: Means a structure that is transportable in one or more
sections and is designed and equipped for the manufacturing of cannabis
products.
   NURSERY: Means a licensee that produces only clones, immature plants, seeds,
and other agricultural products used specifically for the propagation and
cultivation of cannabis.
   OUTDOORS: Means any location within the City that is not within a fully
enclosed and secure structure.
   PERMIT ZONE: Means, with respect to a person holding a City permit, the
zones or portions of the City where such City permit type is permitted to
operate. Such permit zones may be amended from time-to-time by a majority vote
of the City Council. To the extent not otherwise specified in this definition,
a cannabis permittee shall be able to operate in any portion of the City which
complies with the zoning, radius and other requirements of this section.
   PERSON: Includes any individual, firm, co-partnership, joint venture,
association, corporation, limited liability company, estate, trust, business
trust, receiver, syndicate, or any other group or combination acting as a unit,
and the plural as well as the singular.
   PHYSICIAN SERVICES: Means the consultation by a State- licensed physician of
a patient with the possible recommendation by such physician of medical
cannabis for such patient.
   PROCESS, PROCESSING, AND PROCESSES: Means all activities associated with
drying, curing, grading, trimming, storing, packaging, and labeling of
nonmanufactured cannabis products.
   RETAIL ESTABLISHMENT: Means a premises where cannabis or cannabis products
are offered, either individually or in any combination, for retail sale or
delivery pursuant to State law, including MAUCRSA for recreational and medical
cannabis, including an establishment that sells and delivers cannabis or
cannabis products to customers, patients or primary caregivers subject to
chapter 3, division 42 Bureau of Cannabis Control, title 16 California Code of
Regulations.
   SOLVENT, NONVOLATILE: Means any solvent used in the extraction process that
is not a volatile solvent, such as carbon dioxide and ethanol.
   SOLVENT, VOLATILE: Means any solvent that is or produces a flammable gas or
vapor that, when present in the air in sufficient quantities, will create
explosive or ignitable mixtures, such as butane, hexane, and propane.
   STATE: Means the State of California.
   STATE ADULT USE LICENSE: Means a State license issued pursuant to division
10, commencing with section 26000, of the Business and Professions Code, as
amended or replaced.
   STATE LAW: Means all laws of the State, including all rules and regulations
adopted by State agencies and State regulatory entities.
   STATE MEDICAL LICENSE: Means a State license issued pursuant to chapter 3.5,
commencing with section 19300, of the Business and Professions Code, as amended
or replaced.
   THC: Means the compound tetrahydrocannabinol.
   TESTING: Means the laboratory testing of the quality, makeup or purity of
cannabis and cannabis products subject to chapter 6, division 42 Bureau of
Cannabis Control, title 16 California Code of Regulations.
   TRACK-AND-TRACE SYSTEM: Means the State approved system used to track
commercial cannabis activity and movement, subject to article 5 Records and
Reporting, chapter 1 Cannabis Cultivation Program, division 8 Cannabis
Cultivation, title 3 Food and Agriculture, California Code of Regulations.
   TRANSPORT: Means the transfer of cannabis and cannabis products from the
business location of one cannabis permittee to the business location of another
cannabis permittee, for the purposes of conducting commercial cannabis
activity.
   VOLATILE SOLVENT: Means a Class I flammable liquid as defined by the
National Fire Protection Association, including butane and propane.
   (C)   Commercial Cannabis Activity Prohibited:
      1.   Commercial cannabis activity, whether or not for profit, is not a
permitted use within the City of Taft. The City shall not approve any
application for a building permit, conditional use permit, business license, or
any other entitlement authorizing the establishment, operation, maintenance,
development, or construction of any use that allows for medical or adult-use
commercial cannabis activity. This section shall prohibit all activities for
which a State license is required pursuant to the MAUCRSA, or any other act of
provision of law that licenses cannabis businesses.
      2.   It shall be unlawful for any person to own, manage, establish,
conduct, or operate, or to participate as a landlord, owner, employee,
contractor, agent or volunteer, or in any other manner or capacity, in any
commercial cannabis activity in the City.
      3.   All deliveries of cannabis or cannabis products to or from any
location in the City are expressly prohibited. No person shall conduct or
perform any delivery of any cannabis or cannabis products, which delivery
either originates or terminates within the City. This subsection shall not
prohibit any person from transporting cannabis through the jurisdictional
limits of the City for delivery or distribution to a person located outside the
City, where such transport does not involve delivery or distribution within the
jurisdictional limits of the City.
      4.   Possessing, transporting, purchasing, obtaining, using,
manufacturing, or giving away cannabis accessories to persons twenty one (21)
years of age or older without compensation whatsoever.
      5.   All outdoor cannabis cultivation is prohibited in the City. Indoor
cannabis cultivation is prohibited except as specified in section
6-4-5 of this title.
   (D)   Personal Cannabis Use Exceptions: To the extent that the following
activities are permitted by State law, nothing in this section shall prohibit a
person twenty one (21) years of age or older from:
      1.   Possessing, processing, purchasing, transporting, obtaining or
giving away to persons twenty one (21) years of age or older, without
compensation whatsoever, not more than 28.5 grams of cannabis not in the form
of concentrated cannabis;
      2.   Possessing, processing, purchasing, transporting, obtaining or
giving away to persons twenty one (21) years of age or older, without
compensation whatsoever, up to eight grams (8g) of cannabis in the form of
concentrated cannabis;
      3.   Smoking or ingesting cannabis or cannabis products in a manner
consistent with California Health and Safety Code section 11362.3;
      4.   Engaging in the indoor cultivation of six (6) or fewer live cannabis
plants within a single private residence or inside an accessory structure
located upon the grounds of a private residence that is fully enclosed and
secured, to the extent such cultivation is authorized by California Health and
Safety Code sections 11362.1 and 11362.2, and to the extent that the
cultivation complies with section
6-4-5 of this title.
   (E)   Enforcement: Any commercial cannabis activity within the City is
considered a violation of this section and is hereby declared to be unlawful
and a public nuisance.
      1.   Any person who willfully or knowingly: a) engages in a violation of
this section or b) owns, possesses, controls, or has charge of any parcel of
real property in the City upon which a violation of this section is maintained
and who has actual knowledge of such violation (or would have actual knowledge
of such violation after a reasonable inquiry), shall be subject to the
penalties and remedies provided by this section.
      2.   Any violation of this section shall constitute a separate offense
for each and every day the violation occurs or persists.
      3.   Any person in violation of any provision of this section or who
causes another person to be in violation of this section shall have committed a
misdemeanor. In addition which shall be punishable by a fine of one thousand
dollars ($1,000.00) for each violation and for each day the applicable
violation continues to persist.
      4.   Any person in violation of any provision of this section shall be
punishable by an administrative fine of one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) per
offense.
      5.   These penalties and remedies are cumulative, and in addition to any
other penalties and remedies available to the City. (Ord. 831-18, 3-20-2018;
amd. Ord. 832-18, 4-17-2018)
6-12-33: WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATION FACILITIES:
   (A)   Applications For Facilities: Wireless telecommunication facilities,
hereinafter referred to as "facilities", as defined by section
6-1-19, "Definitions", of this title, are permitted subject to the following:
      1.   Tier Review: Applications for facilities are subject to a two (2)
tier review process as provided in this section. Applications for facilities
are subject to either: a) site plan review reviewed by the project assistance
team (PAT) approval; or b) a conditional use permit, hereinafter referred to as
"CUP", subject to planning commission approval.
         (a)   Tier 1; Site Plan Review: The PAT shall approve facilities only
if it finds as follows:
            (1)   Facilities are located in a commercial, industrial, or
natural resource zone district.
            (2)   Facilities that meet the height requirement of the applicable
zone district.
            (3)   Building or roof mounted facilities that do not exceed
fifteen feet (15') in height and are architecturally screened from view.
            (4)   Facilities have a stealth design in connection with a
building or structure so as not to be recognized as a communications antenna.
            (5)   Support equipment is located within a completely enclosed
structure or otherwise completely screened from view.
            (6)   New antennas will be, if reasonably possible, collocated on
an existing approved facility in an industrial or commercial zone.
         (b)   Tier 2; Planning Commission Review: Facilities which do not
qualify or cannot be approved by the PAT, in accordance with the Tier 1
criteria, are subject to CUP procedures, as outlined in section
6-2-5 of this title. The following are also subject to a CUP:
            (1)   Ground mounted facilities.
            (2)   Facilities that exceed the height requirement of the
applicable zone up to seventy-five feet (75') in height. Facilities that exceed
seventy five feet (75') in height shall require a variance application in
addition to the CUP application. The variance request must meet the applicable
findings outlined in section
6-2-6 of this title.
            (3)   Proposed facilities that create more than a minimal visual
impact on surroundings, as determined by the PAT. In determining where more
than a minimal visual impact exists, the following factors should be
considered: location of facility, size and view of facility from adjacent
properties, and contrast between the facility and other external structural
equipment attached to the property.
            (4)   Facilities located adjacent to a residential zone (RS, R-1,
R-2, R-3); provided, that the property has multiple-family grouped units and
the facility is: a) stealth design; b) building or roof mounted and integrated
into the architecture of the building; or c) collocated.
            (5)   Facilities located within the line of sight of any scenic
corridor.
   (B)   Submittal Requirements: In addition to the submittal requirements as
outlined in site plan review and CUP applications, applications for facilities
must contain the following additional information:
      1.   The applicant shall supply verification of the proposed facilities'
compliance with the American National Standards Institute (ANSI) and Institute
of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE) by providing a copy of its FCC
license agreement for review by staff.
      2.   The applicant shall supply verification of compliance with the
federal aviation administration (FAA), particularly regarding height
limitations.
      3.   At the time of submittal of a site plan review or a CUP application
for facilities, the applicant shall submit information indicating the type of
facilities, its height above ground level and its cell coverage.
   (C)   Location Guidelines: All applications for facilities are subject to
the following location guidelines:
      1.   The preferred order of placement of facilities is as follows:
         (a)   Industrial zones;
         (b)   Natural resource zones;
         (c)   Agricultural zones;
         (d)   Commercial zones; and then
         (e)   Community facilities zones.
      2.   Facilities should:
         (a)   Be collocated with or on an existing facility, where
appropriate;
         (b)   Be utilized as stealth designs;
         (c)   Be roof or wall mounted as an integral architectural element on
an existing structure; and
         (d)   Utilize state of the art wireless technology.
      3.   The applicant is to investigate the feasibility of collocating
additional antennas on the rooftops of buildings, on existing monopoles and/or
clustering facilities. If collocation or clustering is not possible in the case
of a particular proposal, the applicant shall submit such evidence at the time
of submittal. With the submittal of a CUP application, the applicant is to
submit a copy of the appropriate portions of the tentative lease agreement
indicating that no exclusive agreements have been made to prevent future
carriers to locate on the same site or facilities, as well as submit a design
plan which does not preclude potential additional users.
      4.   Monopoles shall be separated a minimum of five hundred feet (500')
from any other existing monopole.
   (D)   Development And Design Guidelines: All applications for facilities
shall be submitted to the planning department and shall contain the information
required by this section. The applicant shall submit plans that will be
reviewed for all applicable zoning codes and standards. The following are
intended to provide high quality guidelines to ensure compatibility with the
community for the placement of facilities:
      1.   Freestanding facility support structures shall be screened from view
by siting them next to tall buildings or structures, or placed near existing
tall trees. Where applicable, the support structures are to be screened from
public view with dense landscaping.
      2.   Facilities must meet all applicable zoning setback and height
regulations of the underlying zone district. All proposed facilities that
exceed the maximum height established by the underlying zone district are
subject to FAA approval, per subsection (B)2.
      3.   Facilities may be designed as or within a piece of public art, such
as a clock tower or historical monument for public benefit.
      4.   The height of the freestanding facility support structures must be
the minimum necessary to provide the required coverage.
      5.   Safety lighting or colors, if prescribed by the city or other
approving agency (i.e., FAA), may be required for support structures.
      6.   Support structures shall be integrated into a stealth design or
painted an unobtrusive color to neutralize and blend with surroundings. Where
an equipment building or enclosure accompanies the support structure, it shall
be designed, colored and textured to match adjacent architecture or blend in
with surrounding development.
      7.   Proposed facilities shall not create any nonconforming situations to
the site, such as a reduction in parking, landscaping, loading zones and/or
elimination of loading zones. Facilities are to be installed and maintained in
compliance with the requirements of the California Building Code, California
Electrical Code, noise standards and all other applicable codes and
regulations.
      8.   The planning commission may condition the approval of facilities of
up to a five (5) year term or other review process.
      9.   Whip and microwave dish antennas are permitted only if integrated
into the design of the structure and/or fully screened from public view.
      10.   All utilities associated with facilities shall be placed
underground.
      11.   Chain link fencing is not permitted for containment of facilities,
unless such fencing is located in the rear portion of property not visible from
a public right of way and is installed with full-width screening slats on all
facades of the fence.
      12.   Lattice towers shall not be permitted within the city boundaries,
except when located within industrial or natural resource zone districts not
adjacent to residential zone districts, subject to planning commission
approval.
      13.   The operator or property owner is responsible for maintaining the
facilities in an appropriate manner consistent with the adopted conditions of
approval. Should the use be replaced or discontinued for a period of six (6)
months, the approvals will lapse, the facility demolished, and facility site
returned to match adjacent site conditions. (Ord. 843-21, 9-7-2021)
CHAPTER 13
PERFORMANCE STANDARDS
SECTION:
6-13-1: Purpose And Intent
6-13-2: Applicability
6-13-3: Air Quality
6-13-4: Electrical Or Electronic Interference
6-13-5: Fire And Explosive Hazards
6-13-6: Hazardous Materials And Wastes
6-13-7: Heat And Cold
6-13-8: Light And Glare
6-13-9: Liquid And Solid Wastes
6-13-10: Maintenance Of Open Areas
6-13-11: Mechanical And Electrical Equipment
6-13-12: Noise And Sound
6-13-13: Odors
6-13-14: Outdoor Storage, Trash Areas And Service Areas
6-13-15: Smoke
6-13-16: Vibration
6-13-1: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
The performance standards outlined in this chapter are intended to describe the
location, configuration, design, amenities, operation and other standards for
existing and proposed development projects which have the capability of
impacting the surrounding neighborhood. The performance standards set maximum
limits on adverse environmental effects created by any use or development of
land. (Ord. 768-08, 8-19-2008)
6-13-2: APPLICABILITY:
   (A)   Applicability: Unless otherwise specified, the performance standards
contained within this chapter are intended to apply to land uses within the
city, in addition to standards of the zone district within which the use is
located and other applicable portions of this title.
   (B)   Administration And Management: The standards of this chapter shall be
enforced in an ongoing manner by the planning director. Upon discovery of any
potential violation of these standards, the planning director shall
investigate, using such instruments as may be necessary. If a violation is
found to exist, the violation shall be abated as prescribed in section
6-1-4, "Enforcement", of this title.
   (C)   Exemptions: The following sources of nuisances are exempt from the
provisions of this chapter:
      1.   Emergency equipment, vehicles, devices and activities.
      2.   Temporary construction, maintenance or demolition activities from
between one-half (1/2) hour before sunrise and one-half (1/2) hour after
sunset. (Ord. 768-08, 8-19-2008)
6-13-3: AIR QUALITY:
No operation or activity shall cause the emission of any smoke, fly ash, dust,
fumes, vapors, gases or other forms of air pollution which can cause material
damage to health or property, or which can cause excessive dirt on any other
lot. No emission shall be permitted which exceeds the requirements of the San
Joaquin Valley unified air pollution control district and/or the requirements
of any air quality plan adopted by the city. (Ord. 768-08, 8-19-2008)
6-13-4: ELECTRICAL OR ELECTRONIC INTERFERENCE:
No operation or activity shall cause any source of electrical or electronic
disturbance that adversely affects either persons or the operation of any
equipment on any other lot which is in conformance with the regulations of the
federal communication commission. (Ord. 768-08, 8-19-2008)
6-13-5: FIRE AND EXPLOSIVE HAZARDS:
Any operation or activity involving the storage of flammable or explosive
materials shall be provided with adequate safety devices against the hazard of
fire and explosion and shall provide adequate firefighting and fire suppression
equipment and devices in accordance with the requirements of the California
fire code and the Kern County fire department. Burning of waste materials in an
open fire is prohibited. (Ord. 768-08, 8-19-2008)
6-13-6: HAZARDOUS MATERIALS AND WASTES:
The release or emission of hazardous materials and wastes into the atmosphere,
ground or sewage systems is prohibited. (Ord. 768-08, 8-19-2008)
6-13-7: HEAT AND COLD:
No operation or activity shall emit heat or cold which would cause a
temperature increase or decrease on any adjacent property in excess of ten
degrees Fahrenheit (10oF), whether the change is in the air, on the ground, or
in any structure. (Ord. 768-08, 8-19-2008)
6-13-8: LIGHT AND GLARE:
No operation, activity, sign or lighting fixture shall create illumination
which exceeds one-half (1/2) foot-candle on any adjacent property, whether or
not the illumination is from a direct or indirect light source. All lighting
shall be designated to project downward and shall not create glare on adjacent
properties. (Ord. 768-08, 8-19-2008)
6-13-9: LIQUID AND SOLID WASTES:
No operation or action shall discharge at any point onto any public street,
public sewer, private sewage disposal system, stream, body of water or into the
ground any materials which can contaminate any water supply, interfere with
bacterial processes in sewage treatment, or otherwise cause the emission of
dangerous or offensive elements, except as provided in this title. (Ord. 768-
08, 8-19-2008)
6-13-10: MAINTENANCE OF OPEN AREAS:
All open areas shall either be landscaped and/or be surfaced, treated and
maintained permanently in a manner which will minimize dust. (Ord. 768-08, 8-
19-2008)
6-13-11: MECHANICAL AND ELECTRICAL EQUIPMENT:
All such equipment, including air conditioners, antennas, pumps, transformers
and heating and ventilating equipment shall be located and operated in a manner
that does not materially disturb adjacent uses and activities. (Ord. 768-08, 8-
19-2008)
6-13-12: NOISE AND SOUND:
Unless otherwise specified in chapters 11, "General Development Standards", and
12, "Specific Use Development Standards", of this title, all commercial and
industrial uses shall be operated so that no loudspeakers, bells, gongs,
buzzers or other noise attention or attracting devices exceed seventy (70) dBA
in nonresidential areas or fifty five (55) dBA in residential areas at any one
time beyond the boundaries of the property. (Ord. 768-08, 8-19-2008)
6-13-13: ODORS:
No operation or activity shall be permitted which emits odorous gases or other
odorous matter in such quantities as to be dangerous, injurious, noxious or
otherwise objectionable to a level that is detectable without the aid of
instruments at or beyond the property lot lines. (Ord. 768-08, 8-19-2008)
6-13-14: OUTDOOR STORAGE, TRASH AREAS AND SERVICE AREAS:
All areas for storage of maintenance equipment or vehicles, refuse and
collection areas, and service areas, shall be enclosed or effectively screened
from public view by a fence, wall, landscaped area, berm or a combination
thereof. (Ord. 768-08, 8-19-2008)
6-13-15: SMOKE:
No operation or activity is permitted to emit excessive smoke, fumes or dust
which exceeds the requirements or levels specified by the San Joaquin Valley
unified air pollution control district. (Ord. 768-08, 8-19-2008)
6-13-16: VIBRATION:
No use shall be permitted which creates a steady state, earthborn oscillation
which is continuous and occurring more frequently than one hundred (100) times
per minute on adjacent properties. The ground vibration caused by moving
vehicles, trains, aircraft or temporary construction or demolition is exempted
from these limits. (Ord. 768-08, 8-19-2008)
CHAPTER 14
PARKING REGULATIONS
SECTION:
6-14-1: Purpose And Intent
6-14-2: General Regulations
6-14-3: Schedule Of Off Street Parking Requirements
6-14-4: Schedule Of Off Street Loading Requirements
6-14-5: Adjustments To Off Street Parking Requirements
6-14-6: Design Standards
6-14-1: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
This chapter is intended to ensure an adequate provision of parking, loading
and bicycle facilities proportionate to the needs created by the various land
uses within the city. In providing adequate parking, loading and bicycle
facilities, it is the intent of this chapter to:
   (A)   Progressively alleviate or prevent on site and off site traffic
congestion and hazards;
   (B)   Ensure the maneuverability of emergency and service vehicles;
   (C)   Provide safe, accessible, convenient, attractive and well maintained
off street parking areas;
   (D)   Protect residential neighborhoods from the effects of vehicular noise
and traffic by uses in adjacent nonresidential districts; and
   (E)   Implement general plan circulation, air quality and energy
conservation policies. (Ord. 768-08, 8-19-2008)
6-14-2: GENERAL REGULATIONS:
   (A)   Applicability:
      1.   Specified: Any new building constructed, any new use established,
any addition or enlargement of an existing structure or use, and any change in
the occupancy of an existing building or the manner in which a use is conducted
that would result in additional parking spaces being required, shall comply
with the provisions of this chapter.
      2.   Additions, Enlargements Or Changes: In the case of additions or
enlargements of an existing building or use, or a change of occupancy or manner
of operation that would result in additional parking spaces being required, the
additional parking spaces shall be required only for such addition, enlargement
or change, and not for the entire building for use, unless a specific finding
is made by the planning director that additional parking for the entire
building or use is necessary to protect public health, safety and welfare.
      3.   Parking standards for the Downtown Taft Specific Plan zone district
are contained within Table 3.3, Section 3.7 of the Downtown Taft Specific Plan,
and prevail over the standards contained in this chapter. Where a use is not
identified in that table, the standards contained in this chapter will then be
applicable.
   (B)   Status Of Existing Development and Approvals:
      1.   Lawfully Existing Building Or Use: No building or use of land which
lawfully existed on the effective date hereof shall be considered nonconforming
solely because of the lack of off street parking and loading facilities
required by this chapter.
      2.   Prior Approvals: Projects with unexpired plot plans or conditional
use permits approved prior to the effective date hereof need only meet the
requirements of the parking ordinance in effect on the date the plot plans or
conditional use permits were approved.
      3.   Use Of Facilities In Commercial, Business Or Industrial Zones: No
off street parking facilities located in a commercial, business park or
industrial zone district shall be used for any purpose other than the temporary
parking of vehicles used by employees and patrons that the facilities are
intended to serve without first obtaining approval of the city. The display of
vehicles offered for sale shall be strictly prohibited on said off street
parking facilities.
   (C)   Calculation Of Floor Areas: The floor areas used to calculate the
number of spaces by the schedules for provision of off street parking and
loading spaces contained in sections
6-14-3 and
6-14-4 of this chapter shall include:
      1.   Included Areas: All floor area which is devoted to office, retail,
service or other activities and uses, including storage areas, restrooms,
lounges, lobbies, kitchens and interior hallways and corridors, unless
specifically exempted in this chapter.
      2.   Outdoor Areas: All outdoor patio, deck, balcony, terrace, kiosk or
other outdoor area that will accommodate a permanent activity that will
generate a demand for parking facilities in addition to that which is provided
to principal activities and uses within the building or structure.
      3.   Areas Not Included: Gross floor area shall not include enclosed or
converted areas used for off street parking, loading or bicycle facilities.
   (D)   Fractions: Where the application of the schedules for provision of off
street parking, loading, spaces and bicycle facilities contained in sections
6-14-3,
6-14-4 and
6-14-5 of this chapter will result in a fractional space, the fraction shall be
rounded to the next lower whole number.
   (E)   Increases And Decreases In Requirements:
      1.   Increase: The number of spaces required by the schedules for
provision of off street parking and loading spaces contained in sections
6-14-3 and
6-14-4 of this chapter may be increased if it can be demonstrated through a
parking study that the proposed use would have a parking or loading space
demand greater than the requirements given in sections
6-14-3 and
6-14-4 of this chapter. The planning director may require that a parking study
be provided by an applicant when, in the opinion of the planning director, an
increase in the number of parking or loading spaces may be warranted.
      2.   Decrease: A decrease in the number of spaces required by the
schedule for provision of off street parking and loading spaces and bicycle
facilities contained in sections
6-14-3 and
6-14-4 of this chapter may be granted under the circumstances identified in
section
6-14-5 of this chapter by approval of a variance or as part of an application
for a conditional use permit.
      3.   Multiple Uses: In situations where a combination of uses are
developed on a site, including multiple uses under single ownership, the number
of spaces required by the schedules for provision of off street parking,
loading spaces and bicycle facilities contained in sections
6-14-3 and
6-14-4 of this chapter shall be equal to the sum of requirements for each of
the uses, unless a reduction is granted pursuant to the shared parking
provisions of section
6-14-5 of this chapter. If the gross floor area of each individual user is less
than the minimum for which parking or loading spaces would be required, the
aggregate gross floor area shall be used in determining the required number of
parking and loading spaces.
   (F)   Operation And Maintenance:
      1.   Maintenance Required: All parking, loading and bicycle facilities
required by this chapter shall be maintained for the duration of the use
requiring such facilities.
      2.   Prohibited Uses:
         (a)   Required parking and loading facilities shall not be used for
the storage or display of merchandise, or for the storage or repair of vehicles
or equipment.
         (b)   Required parking and loading facilities shall not be used for
the sale of merchandise, except for a special event, subject to the issuance of
a special event permit pursuant to the provisions of section
6-2-11, “Special Event Permit”, of this title.
      3.   Responsibility For Maintenance: It shall be the responsibility of
the owner or operator of a specific use to ensure that required parking
facilities are maintained in good operating condition, are periodically swept
and cleaned, and are properly striped.
   (G)   Requirements Not Given In Parking And Loading Schedules:
      1.   Review Process: Where the parking and loading facilities
requirements for a specific use are not listed in the schedules contained in
sections
6-14-3 and
6-14-4 of this chapter, the required parking shall be determined through the
individual development application review process.
      2.   Parking Study: An applicant proposing to develop or expand a use
whose parking requirements are not shown, shall submit a parking study to the
planning director providing justification for the proposed number of spaces.
This study, along with any traffic engineering and planning data that is
appropriate to the establishment of a parking requirement for the proposed use,
shall be considered during review of the development application.
   (H)   Compact Parking: The maximum percentage of all on site parking that
may be permitted as compact spaces shall be as provided in table 14.A of this
section, unless otherwise specified in section
6-14-5, “Adjustments To Off Street Parking Requirements”, of this chapter.
   (I)   Tandem Parking: Unless otherwise permitted in this chapter, tandem
parking shall not be used to meet the required number of parking spaces
specified in the parking schedules, unless specifically permitted as part of an
approved conditional use permit or unless findings for a variance can be made.
   (J)   Time Restricted Customer Parking: Time restricted customer parking may
be delineated for high turnover businesses for the purpose of restricting long
term parking at selected locations. Time restricted customer parking shall
comply with the following requirements. Requests for time restricted parking
may be included within the required development application submittal for new
or expanded uses, and shall be approved or denied based on the criteria listed
in subsection (J)3 of this section.
      1.   Application Requirements: Requests for delineation of time
restricted customer parking shall be submitted to the Planning Director on
forms supplied by the Planning Department and shall be acted upon by the
Planning Commission. The following information shall be supplied within the
application:
         (a)   Site plan of the commercial activity, including information
regarding the total number of parking spaces, the number and designation of
proposed time restricted parking spaces and on site vehicular, bicycle and
pedestrian circulation, access and design.
         (b)   A letter of justification describing how the proposed use will
meet the required findings set forth in subsection (J)3 of this section.
         (c)   Other information as may be required by the Planning Director,
Planning Commission or City Council.
      2.   Approval Authority: Requests for time restricted parking may be
approved by the Planning Commission, the decision of which may be appealed to
the City Council as provided in section
6-2-19, “Appeals”, of this title.
      3.   Required Findings: A request for time restricted customer parking
may be approved; provided, that all of the following findings are made:
         (a)   The amount and distribution of time restricted customer spaces
allows for the time restricted parking without adversely affecting the parking
needs of other uses within the general area; and
         (b)   The location of the time restricted customer parking spaces will
not impede vehicular, bicycle or pedestrian circulation, and will not encroach
into required fire lane access areas.
      4.   Revocation Of Time Restricted Customer Parking:
         (a)   Approvals for time restricted customer parking spaces, granted
pursuant to the provisions of this subsection, may be revoked if it is found
that the continued use of time restricted customer parking adversely affects
the parking needs of the general area or impedes vehicular, bicycle or
pedestrian circulation due to changes in tenant mix, customer parking demands
or any other factors which change the parking demand characteristics.
         (b)   Any decision to revoke a time restricted customer parking
approval shall become final thirty (30) days after the decision to revoke is
made, unless an appeal is filed in accordance with the provisions of section
6-2-19 of this title.
   (K)   Prohibited Parking Areas: No “vehicle”, as defined in section
6-1-19, “Definitions”, of this title, shall be permitted to be parked on any
unpaved portion of a front yard setback area, or on any paved portion of a
front yard setback area not designated as an access corridor (driveway) to an
on site parking facility (carport or garage) on any lot located in a
residentially zoned district in the City. (Ord. 768-08, 8-19-2008)
TABLE 14.A
OFF STREET AUTOMOBILE PARKING SPACE REQUIREMENTS
Use Minimum Off Street Parking Requirements Notes
                                                                                  Minimum Off
Use                                                                               Street Parking Notes
                                                                                  Requirements
Commercial uses:   
   Freestanding commercial and service uses:                                                  
                                                                                  1 space per
                                                                                  500 square
                                                                                  feet of gross  No required off street parking space shall be used for sale, service,
      Automobile repair and services                                        floor area,    rental or repair of vehicles
                                                                                  plus 1.5
                                                                                  spaces per
                                                                                  service bay
                                                                                  1 space per
                                                                                  350 square
                                                                                  feet of
   Automobile sales                                                            interior       No required off street parking space shall be used for repair of vehicles
                                                                                  office area,
                                                                                  plus 2 spaces
                                                                                  per service
                                                                                  bay
                                                                                  2 spaces, plus If a minimart is developed as part of the service station, additional
   Automobile service station                                                  2 spaces per   parking at a rate of 1 space per 200 square feet of retail area shall be
                                                                                  service bay    provided
   Automobile washing (self- service)                                          1 space per 2   
                                                                                  washing stalls
                                                                                  1 space per
   Bank, savings and loan                                                      300 square     Special design requirements shall apply for drive-through facilities (see
                                                                                  feet of gross  chapter 12, “Specific Use Development Standards”, of this title)
                                                                                  floor area
                                                                                  2 spaces per
   Barbershop, beauty parlor                                                   barber chair    
                                                                                  or beautician
                                                                                  station
                                                                                  Required
                                                                                  spaces for
                                                                                  existing       All spaces for guest parking shall be 9 feet wide by 19 feet long.
   Bed and breakfast inns                                                      residential    Neither on street nor tandem parking shall be allowed to satisfy the
                                                                                  units and 1    parking requirements
                                                                                  space per each
                                                                                  guestroom
                                                                                  1 space per
   Business and personal services                                              300 square      
                                                                                  feet of gross
                                                                                  floor area
                                                                                  1 space per
                                                                                  100 square
   Eating and drinking facility with or without drive-in or take out facilitiesfeet of gross  Special design requirements shall apply for drive-through facilities (see
                                                                                  dining area,   chapter 12, “Specific Use Development Standards”, of this title)
                                                                                  inside and
                                                                                  outside
                                                                                  1 space per
                                                                                  each 5 seats,
   Mortuaries                                                                  plus funeral    
                                                                                  procession of
                                                                                  queue capacity
                                                                                  for 5 cars
   Offices:                                                                                   
                                                                                  1 space per
      Administrative, business, professional                                300 gross       
                                                                                  square feet of
                                                                                  floor area
                                                                                  1 space per
      Government                                                            300 gross       
                                                                                  square feet of
                                                                                  floor area
                                                                                  1 space per
      Retail, furniture, major appliances                                   500 gross       
                                                                                  square feet of
                                                                                  floor area
                                                                                  1 space per
      Retail, general (i.e., department stores, markets, specialty, etc.)   300 gross       
                                                                                  square feet of
                                                                                  floor area
                                                                                  1 space per
                                                                                  300 square
                                                                                  feet of gross
                                                                                  floor area for
                                                                                  the total
                                                                                  gross leasable
                                                                                  area up to
      Neighborhood, community and convenience shopping centers greater than 100,000 square Alternative parking requirements for specialty commercial centers may be
20,000 square feet of total gross leasable area                                   feet           established by the planning director based upon a parking study submitted
                                                                                  1 space per    by or required of the applicant (see subsection (G)2 of this section)
                                                                                  450 square
                                                                                  feet for the
                                                                                  total gross
                                                                                  leasable area
                                                                                  greater than
                                                                                  100,000 square
                                                                                  feet
Educational services:   
                                                                                  1 space per
                                                                                  each 5 person
                                                                                  capacity, or 1
                                                                                  space per 300
   Business and trade schools                                                  gross square    
                                                                                  feet of floor
                                                                                  area,
                                                                                  whichever is
                                                                                  greater
                                                                                  10 spaces,
   Colleges                                                                    plus 30 spaces  
                                                                                  per classroom
   Elementary, junior high schools                                             2 spaces per    
                                                                                  classroom
                                                                                  10 spaces,
   Senior high schools                                                         plus 10 spaces  
                                                                                  per classroom
Entertainment and recreation uses:   
                                                                                  1 space per
   Arcades, games                                                              150 gross       
                                                                                  square feet of
                                                                                  floor area
                                                                                  1 space per 5
                                                                                  seats or 1
                                                                                  space per 100
   Auditoriums, places of public assembly                                      gross square    
                                                                                  feet where
                                                                                  there are no
                                                                                  fixed seats
                                                                                  5 spaces per
                                                                                  alley, plus 2
                                                                                  spaces per
                                                                                  billiard
   Bowling alleys, billiard halls                                              table, plus     
                                                                                  required
                                                                                  parking for
                                                                                  other on site
                                                                                  uses
                                                                                  1 space per 5
                                                                                  horses
   Commercial stables                                                          capacity for    
                                                                                  boarding on
                                                                                  site
                                                                                  4 spaces per
                                                                                  hole, plus
   Golf course (executive and regulation)                                      required        
                                                                                  parking for
                                                                                  other on site
                                                                                  uses
                                                                                  1 space per
                                                                                  tee, plus
   Golf driving range                                                          required        
                                                                                  parking for
                                                                                  other on site
                                                                                  uses
                                                                                  3 spaces per
                                                                                  hole, plus
   Golf, miniature                                                             required        
                                                                                  parking for
                                                                                  other on site
                                                                                  uses
                                                                                  1 space per    Alternative parking requirements may be established by the planning
   Health club/centers                                                         100 square     agency based upon a parking study submitted by or required of such a
                                                                                  feet floor     facility (see subsection (G)2 of this section)
                                                                                  area
                                                                                  To be
                                                                                  determined for
   Parks, public and private (over 10 acres in size):                          the proposed   Applicant must submit a parking study (see subsection (G)2 of this
                                                                                  use based upon section)
                                                                                  the parking
                                                                                  study findings
                                                                                  A minimum of 5
                                                                                  spaces per
                                                                                  acre, plus
                                                                                  additional
                                                                                  spaces for
      Community park                                                        spectator       
                                                                                  seating at
                                                                                  athletic
                                                                                  fields,
                                                                                  community
                                                                                  centers and
                                                                                  pools
                                                                                  A minimum of 5
                                                                                  spaces for the
                                                                                  first 2 acres,
      Neighborhood parks                                                    plus 1 space    
                                                                                  for each
                                                                                  additional
                                                                                  acre
                                                                                  1 space per
   Skating rinks                                                               100 square      
                                                                                  feet of gross
                                                                                  floor area
                                                                                  3 spaces per
                                                                                  court, plus
   Tennis, handball, racquetball facilities                                    required        
                                                                                  parking for on
                                                                                  site uses
                                                                                  5 spaces, plus
   Theaters, movie                                                             1 space per 3   
                                                                                  fixed seats
Industrial uses:   
                                                                                  1 space per
                                                                                  500 gross
                                                                                  square feet of
                                                                                  floor area
                                                                                  devoted to
                                                                                  manufacturing,
   Manufacturing                                                               plus the        
                                                                                  required
                                                                                  amount of
                                                                                  parking for
                                                                                  gross square
                                                                                  footage
                                                                                  devoted to
                                                                                  other uses
                                                                                  1 space per
   Research and development                                                    300 gross       
                                                                                  square feet of
                                                                                  floor area
                                                                                  1 space per
                                                                                  1,000 gross
                                                                                  square feet of
                                                                                  floor area
                                                                                  devoted to
                                                                                  warehousing,
   Warehouse and distribution                                                  plus the        
                                                                                  required
                                                                                  amount of
                                                                                  parking for
                                                                                  gross square
                                                                                  footage
                                                                                  devoted to
                                                                                  other uses
Medical and health services:   
   Convalescent and nursing homes                                              1 space per 3   
                                                                                  beds
   Hospitals                                                                   1 space per     
                                                                                  1.5 beds
                                                                                  1 space per
   Medical and dental offices and clinics, veterinary clinics and offices,     300 gross       
emergency rooms                                                                   square feet of
                                                                                  floor area
Public and quasi-public uses:   
   Daycare, preschools, nursery schools, family daycare, residential care homes              Parking requirements are based upon maximum capacity of the proposed
                                                                                                 facility
                                                                                  1 space per
      Daycare centers                                                       employee, plus  
                                                                                  1 space per 5
                                                                                  children
                                                                                  2 spaces per
                                                                                  dwelling unit
      Family daycare homes                                                  in addition to  
                                                                                  residential
                                                                                  requirement
                                                                                  2 spaces per
                                                                                  dwelling unit
      Residential care homes                                                in addition to  
                                                                                  residential
                                                                                  requirements
                                                                                  1 space per
   Libraries, museums, galleries                                               400 square      
                                                                                  feet of gross
                                                                                  floor area
                                                                                  1 space per
                                                                                  100 square
                                                                                  feet of floor
                                                                                  area of main
                                                                                  assembly/
                                                                                  auditorium
                                                                                  area, plus
   Places of worship                                                           requirement     
                                                                                  for office
                                                                                  space, if
                                                                                  applicable,
                                                                                  plus
                                                                                  requirement
                                                                                  for school
                                                                                  uses, if
                                                                                  applicable
                                                                                  To be
                                                                                  determined by  Parking requirements are based upon capacity of the proposed facility
   Public utilities                                                            the Planning   Applicant shall submit a parking study (see subsection (G)2 of this
                                                                                  Director for   section)
                                                                                  proposed use
Residential uses:   
   Mobile home parks and subdivisions:                                                        
      Resident parking                                                      2 spaces per   Tandem spaces may be permitted to meet parking requirements for a
                                                                                  unit           mobilehome park
      Guest parking                                                         1 space per 5   
                                                                                  units
                                                                                  2 spaces per
                                                                                  model home,    On street parking adjacent to the model homes may be counted toward the
   Model home complexes                                                        plus 1 space   parking requirement if it is found that such parking will not impact
                                                                                  per 300 square other residential parking and will not obstruct traffic flow
                                                                                  feet of office
                                                                                  area
   Multi-family dwellings:                                                                    
      Residential parking                                                Studio: 1      All spaces shall be located within 150 feet of the unit being served
                                                                                  space per unit
                                                                                 1 bedroom: 1    
                                                                                  space per unit
                                                                                  2 or more      The parking requirement shall be reduced to 1 space per unit pursuant to
                                                                                 bedrooms: 2    a density bonus granted for a qualifying residents project in accordance
                                                                                  spaces per     with the provisions of section
                                                                                  unit           6-11-8 of this title
                                                                                  0.25 space per
                                                                                  unit for 11 or
      Guest parking                                                         more units; no  
                                                                                  guest parking
                                                                                  for 10 or less
                                                                                  units
   Senior housing; congregate care:                                                           
                                                                                  0.5 space per
                                                                                  unit or as     Applicant shall submit a parking study pursuant to the requirements of
      Resident parking                                                      determined by  subsection (G)2 of this section
                                                                                  the planning
                                                                                  agency
                                                                                               For multiple-family units, the parking shall be within 150 feet of the
                                                                                                 dwelling it is serving
      Guest parking                                                         0.25 space per  
                                                                                  unit
   Senior housing; independent living:                                                        
      Resident parking                                                      1 space per    Spaces may be covered, and may be either a carport or garage
                                                                                  unit
      Guest parking                                                         0.25 space per Guest spaces may be uncovered
                                                                                  unit
   Single-family dwelling                                                      2 spaces per   May be located within a garage or covered carport, with the structures
                                                                                  unit           not located within the required front setback
 
(Ord. 768-08, 8-19-2008; amd. Ord. 828-17, 8-1-2017; Ord. 849-22, 12-6-2022)
6-14-3: SCHEDULE OF OFF STREET PARKING REQUIREMENTS:
   (A)   Automobile Parking Requirements: Minimum off street automobile parking
requirements for uses within the city are specified in section
6-14-2, table 14.A of this chapter. Section
6-14-6 of this chapter provides design standards for automobile and truck
parking.
   (B)   Schedule Of Handicapped Parking Requirements: Handicapped parking
requirements are established by the state of California. The following
requirements for handicapped parking are intended to be identical to the state
requirements at the time of adoption of this title. Any future changes in state
requirements shall preempt the standards for provisions of handicapped parking
spaces contained in this title.
      1.   Dimensions: Handicapped parking space dimensions are provided in
section
6-14-6 of this chapter.
      2.   Spaces: Handicapped parking spaces shall be provided as set forth in
table 14.B of this section.
      TABLE 14.B
      HANDICAPPED PARKING REQUIREMENTS
Number Of Automobile Spaces Provided Number Of Handicapped Spaces Required
Number Of Automobile Spaces Provided Number Of Handicapped Spaces Required
   1 - 25                         1 van accessible space
   26 - 50                        2 including 1 van accessible space
   51 - 75                        3 including 1 van accessible space
   76 - 100                       4 including 1 van accessible space
   101 - 150                      5 including 1 van accessible space
   151 - 200                      6 including 1 van accessible space
   201 - 300                      7 including 1 van accessible space
   301 - 400                      8 including 1 van accessible space
   401 - 500                      9 including 2 van accessible spaces
   501 - 1,000                    2% including 3 van accessible spaces
                                     20 plus 1 per 100 or fraction, including a
   1,001+                         minimum of 1 van accessible space per 8
                                     accessible spaces or fraction thereof
 
   (C)   Schedule Of Motorcycle And Bicycle Parking Requirements:
      1.   Standards: Motorcycle parking space design standards are provided in
section
6-14-6 of this chapter.
      2.   Spaces: Motorcycle and bicycle parking spaces shall be provided for
all nonresidential uses at the following rates:
         (a)   Uses requiring more than twenty five (25) but less than one
hundred (100) parking spaces shall provide one designated motorcycle parking
space.
         (b)   Uses with one hundred (100) or more parking spaces shall provide
one designated motorcycle parking area for each one hundred (100) required
automobile parking spaces.
         (c)   Motorcycle parking spaces required by this section shall count
toward meeting the total number of parking spaces required by the provisions of
this chapter.
   (D)   Recreational Vehicle Parking Spaces: Recreational vehicle spaces shall
not be permitted within multiple-family residential developments, unless a
parking facility for recreational vehicles, as approved by the planning agency,
is specifically provided as part of the multiple-family residential
development. (Ord. 768-08, 8-19-2008)
6-14-4: SCHEDULE OF OFF STREET LOADING REQUIREMENTS:
   (A)   Design Standards: Loading space design standards are provided in
section
6-14-6 of this chapter.
   (B)   Specified In Table 14.C: Minimum off street loading space requirements
for uses within the city are specified in section 6-14-4, table 14.C of this
chapter.
TABLE 14.C
OFF STREET LOADING REQUIREMENTS
Type Of Use Size Space Required
TABLE 14.C
OFF STREET LOADING REQUIREMENTS
Type Of Use                                                                  Size       Space
                                                                                        Required
Commercial uses:                                                              
                                                                             0 - 29,999 1
                                                                             sq. ft.
                                                                             30,000 -
                                                                             69,999 sq. 2
                                                                             ft.
                                                                             70,000 -
                                                                             120,000    3
   Automotive uses                                                        sq. ft.
                                                                             For each
                                                                             additional
                                                                             50,000
                                                                             gross      1
                                                                             square
                                                                             feet over
                                                                             120,000
                                                                             0 - 4,999  1
                                                                             sq. ft.
                                                                             5,000 -
                                                                             29,000 sq. 2
                                                                             ft.
                                                                             30,000 -
                                                                             69,999 sq. 3
                                                                             ft.
   General retail and business services, eating and drinking facilities   70,000 -
                                                                             120,000    4
                                                                             sq. ft.
                                                                             For each
                                                                             additional
                                                                             50,000 sq. 1
                                                                             ft. over
                                                                             120,000
                                                                             sq. ft.
                                                                             0 - 9,999  0
                                                                             sq. ft.
                                                                             10,000 -
                                                                             99,999 sq. 1
                                                                             ft.
   Hotel, motel                                                           100,000 -
                                                                             199,999    2
                                                                             sq. ft.
                                                                             Over
                                                                             200,000    3
                                                                             sq. ft.
                                                                             0 - 9,999  0
                                                                             sq. ft.
                                                                             10,000 -
                                                                             99,999 sq. 1
                                                                             ft.
   Offices: administrative, business, professional, medical, veterinary   100,000 -
                                                                             199,999    2
                                                                             sq. ft.
                                                                             Over
                                                                             200,000    3
                                                                             sq. ft.
Industrial uses:                                                              
                                                                             0 - 29,999 1
                                                                             sq. ft.
                                                                             30,000 -
                                                                             69,999 sq. 2
                                                                             ft.
                                                                             70,000 -
                                                                             120,000    3
   Manufacturing, warehouse and distribution                              sq. ft.
                                                                             For each
                                                                             additional
                                                                             50,000
                                                                             gross      1
                                                                             square
                                                                             feet over
                                                                             120,000
                                                                             0 - 9,999  1
                                                                             sq. ft.
                                                                             10,000 -
                                                                             99,999 sq. 2
                                                                             ft.
   Research and development                                               100,000 -
                                                                             199,999    3
                                                                             sq. ft.
                                                                             Over
                                                                             200,000    4
                                                                             sq. ft.
Medical and health services:                                                           2
   Convalescent and nursing homes                                                   2
                                                                             0 - 9,999  1
                                                                             sq. ft.
                                                                             10,000 -
                                                                             99,999 sq. 2
                                                                             ft.
   Hospitals                                                              100,000 -
                                                                             199,999    3
                                                                             sq. ft.
                                                                             Over
                                                                             200,000    4
                                                                             sq. ft.
                                                                             0 - 9,999  0
                                                                             sq. ft.
                                                                             10,000 -
                                                                             99,999 sq. 1
                                                                             ft.
   Medical, dental offices and clinics; veterinary hospitals and clinics  100,000 -
                                                                             199,999    2
                                                                             sq. ft.
                                                                             Over
                                                                             200,000    3
                                                                             sq. ft.
Residential uses:                                                             
   Mobilehome parks and subdivisions                                                None
   Senior housing (where meals are provided in common dining facilities)            2
   Single-family detached, single-family attached, multiple-family, model           None
home complexes
 
(Ord. 768-08, 8-19-2008; Ord. 849-22, 12-6-2022)
6-14-5: ADJUSTMENTS TO OFF STREET PARKING REQUIREMENTS:
   (A)   Modified Parking Requirements In Downtown Commercial Zone District:
      1.   Scope; Appeal: Modified parking requirements have been developed for
use in the downtown commercial zone district as an incentive to preserve and
maintain existing historic structures. The planning commission shall have the
authority to approve a request for a parking adjustment, subject to the
provisions of this section; the decision of which may be appealed to the city
council as provided in section
6-2-19 of this title.
      2.   Techniques: For land uses located in the downtown commercial zone
district, off street parking requirements may be modified by the planning
commission by utilizing the following techniques:
         (a)   A reduction of the required number of parking spaces by twenty
percent (20%); or
         (b)   The crediting of on street parking spaces which are adjacent to
the frontage of the designated structure/site toward the total number of
required off street parking spaces required for use; provided, that a
determination is made that such on street parking spaces will remain available
for public parking during all business hours in the future. No on street
parking spaces located within fifteen feet (15') of a stop sign or corner
radius shall be counted. No on street parking spaces located in front of a bus
stop shall be counted; or
         (c)   A reduction in two-way aisle widths from twenty four feet (24')
to twenty two feet (22'); or
         (d)   Allow the use of off site parking in parking lots located within
four hundred feet (400') of the structure, where the applicant has provided
adequate incentives for the use of such parking lots; or
         (e)   Allow vehicles to back out onto alleys where it is determined
that visibility is good and such backing out of vehicles can be done safely; or
         (f)   Allow forty five percent (45%) of a parking lot, located on the
site of the structure/use, to be compact spaces, instead of twenty five percent
(25%) as permitted in section
6-14-2 of this chapter; or
         (g)   Allow tandem parking where it is determined that such parking
would be effectively and safely used; or
         (h)   Allow for the deletion of the loading space requirements
prescribed by section
6-14-4 of this chapter; or (Ord. 768-08, 8-19-2008)
         (i)   Provide for in lieu fees to provide developers an alternative to
meeting all on site parking requirements, as set forth in this chapter, where
it is unfeasible to do so because of space limitations or of excessively
expensive costs involved. Said fees shall be applied to an identified parking
facility that will contribute to the development of public parking within the
area designated in the downtown specific plan (exhibit A attached to the
ordinance codified herein). (Ord. 776-09, 11-17-2009)
      3.   Adjustments: The planning commission may approve a parking
adjustment with conditions which are found to be necessary to effectuate the
purpose of these adjustments within the downtown commercial zone district; the
decision of which may be appealed to the city council as provided in section
6-2-19, "Appeals", of this title.
         (a)   Notice: Notice of an application for a parking adjustment shall
be published in a newspaper of general circulation not less than ten (10) days
prior to the date set for the planning commission hearing. Notices shall also
be mailed not less than ten (10) days prior to the date of the meeting to
owners of property within a radius of three hundred feet (300') of the external
boundaries of the property proposed for the modification described on the
application, using for this purpose the name and address of such owners as
shown on the latest official tax role of the county.
         (b)   Findings For Approval: The planning commission, in approving a
parking adjustment, shall find as follows:
            (1)   The proposed parking modification and use of the structure is
necessary or desirable for the development of the community, is in harmony with
the various elements and objectives of the general plan, and is not detrimental
to existing uses or to uses specifically permitted in the zone district;
            (2)   Approving the proposed parking adjustment and use will
significantly improve the possibility that the structure will be preserved and
maintained;
            (3)   The required parking cannot be provided without the approval
of the requested adjustment;
            (4)   The proposed parking scheme will function safely;
            (5)   Approval of the parking adjustment will not harm the
integrity of the structure or the surrounding neighborhood.
   (B)   Shared Parking:
      1.   Maximum Reduction: A maximum reduction of thirty percent (30%) of
the minimum parking requirements for individual uses may be granted by the
planning agency where joint use of parking facilities or other factors will
mitigate peak parking demand.
      2.   Information; Format: Requests for parking reductions resulting from
joint usage shall be supported by information that generally follows the format
described below:
         (a)   Initial project review involves documentation and quantification
of proposed land uses and anticipated functional relationships between the
parking needs of different land uses. The initial review will consist of data
gathering regarding proximity to transit facilities, general location of
parking facilities, surrounding land uses and mix, predicted pedestrian
patterns, and similar variables which affect parking needs.
         (b)   Adjustments for peak parking factor include calculating the
number of off street parking spaces required for each land use within the area
proposed for joint parking use based upon the requirements of section
6-14-3 of this chapter. Other elements to be considered include seasonal
adjustment for parking demand and a determination of the mode of transit used
in reaching or departing that area being considered.
         (c)   Analysis of hourly accumulation involves an estimation of hourly
parking accumulations for each land use during a typical weekday or weekend
day.
         (d)   Estimate of shared parking merges the hourly parking demand
estimate to calculate the overall parking required to be provided within the
area being considered for shared parking facilities.
      3.   Required Findings: In granting parking reductions for shared use of
parking facilities, the planning agency shall make one or more of the following
findings:
         (a)   The report justifies the requested parking reduction based upon
the presence of two (2) or more adjacent land uses which, because of their
substantially different operating hours or different peak parking
characteristics, will allow joint use of the same parking facilities.
         (b)   The report indicates that there are public transportation
facilities and/or pedestrian circulation opportunities that justify the
requested reduction of parking facilities.
         (c)   The report finds that the use otherwise adheres to the parking
standards in this chapter.
         (d)   The report finds that the clustering of different land uses is
such that a reduced number of parking spaces can serve multiple trip purposes
to that area in question.
      4.   Agreements, Legal Instruments: As a condition of approval to the
granting of a reduction in required parking, the planning agency may require
the granting of reciprocal access and parking agreements with surrounding
properties; recordation of conditions, covenants and restrictions; or creation
of other legal instruments to assure the permanent continuation of the
circumstances under which parking requirement reductions were granted.
      5.   Joint Access Agreement: Where parking spaces are provided for an
individual development on a separate parcel, a joint access agreement will be
required between affected property owners, in a form acceptable to the city.
   (C)   Transportation Management Plans:
      1.   Decrease In Number Of Required Spaces: The number of parking spaces
required for a project may be decreased up to twenty percent (20%) subject to
planning commission approval of a transportation management plan supplied by
the applicant for those applications requesting more than a ten percent (10%)
reduction. Said plan shall provide evidence that identifies the actual parking
requirement and supports and justifies the parking reduction request. The plan
may include, but is not limited to, car pooling, vanpools and staggered work
hours.
      2.   Additional Decrease: Decreases in the required number of parking
spaces, approved pursuant to this subsection, may be in addition to any other
reductions allowed by this section.
      3.   Considerations: Before approving such a request, the planning
commission shall consider, among other factors:
         (a)   Projected effectiveness of car pool, vanpool, staggered work
hours or similar transportation management programs.
         (b)   Proximity to public transportation facilities that could be
reasonably expected to serve a significant portion of employees and/or
customers.
         (c)   Evidence of the likelihood that employees and/or customers will
utilize regular transportation alternatives rather than individual use of
automobiles, including transportation management plans prepared pursuant to San
Joaquin unified air pollution control district requirements and chapter 13 of
this title.
   (D)   Low Percentages Of Usable Space:
      1.   Proportionate Reduction: Where buildings contain extensive areas of
employee facilities, such as, but not limited to, cafeterias, racquetball
courts, health facilities, covered patios, multiple stairways and elevator
shafts, or atriums in multiple-story buildings, gross leasable space may be
significantly below the eighty five percent (85%) average assumed in the
parking schedules. In such cases, a proportionate reduction in parking
requirements may be granted by the planning commission.
      2.   Floor Plan Submitted: To be eligible for a reduction in parking
requirements, due to low percentage of usable space, the applicant shall submit
a detailed floor plan breaking down the proposed usage of all square footage
within the building.
      3.   Agreement: As a condition of granting a reduction in parking
requirements, due to low percentage of usable space, the applicant shall be
required to sign an agreement stating that the percentage of leasable space
will not be increased unless additional parking is provided pursuant to the
requirements of this chapter.
   (E)   Off Site Parking Facilities: Required parking for a development may be
provided off site under certain instances. Requests for off site parking
facilities shall meet the following requirements:
      1.   Location: The off site parking shall be located so that it will
adequately serve the use for which it is intended. In making this
determination, the following shall be considered:
         (a)   Proximity of the off site parking facilities;
         (b)   Ease of pedestrian access to the off site parking facility;
         (c)   The type of use which the off site parking is intended to serve,
recognizing that such facilities are generally not appropriate for high
turnover uses;
         (d)   The need for locating parking facilities off site, and the
resulting urban design benefits of off site parking, if any.
      2.   Agreement: As a condition of granting approval to the development of
off site parking facilities, the applicant and other involved parties shall be
required to sign an agreement ensuring the continued availability of the off
street parking facilities for the use they are intended to serve. (Ord. 768-08,
8-19-2008)
   (F)   In Lieu Parking Fee:
      1.   Eligible Properties: All properties within the downtown specific
plan area shall be eligible to participate in the in lieu fee parking program.
Notwithstanding the above, the program may be suspended by the city council if
it determines that the city is not able to find or develop adequate parking
facilities to fulfill the goals of this program.
      2.   Application: Eligible persons or businesses desiring to participate
in the in lieu fee program established herein shall submit a written
application for participation to the city planning department on a form
prescribed by the city. If the planning director determines that such
application meets the requirements set forth in this chapter, the director
shall, within thirty (30) days of the completion of such application, calculate
the applicable in lieu fee and grant permission to participate in the program,
if the director makes the following findings:
         (a)   Participation in the in lieu parking fee program will not create
any significant adverse traffic safety impacts, pedestrian/bicycle, vehicle
conflicts or parking impacts.
         (b)   Participation in the in lieu parking fee program will not be
detrimental to the public health, safety and welfare of the general public.
      3.   Fee Collection Process: Fees for all development projects
participating in the in lieu fee parking shall be paid to the city prior to
obtaining a building permit.
         (a)   Upon receipt of the fee, the city shall place the fee in a
parking fund reserved for uses consistent with this subsection.
         (b)   The city will maintain a record of all properties that have met
their required parking space obligation by paying the appropriate fee for the
spaces.
         (c)   Payment of this fee does not guarantee that parking spaces will
be constructed for the sole use or in the immediate proximity of any
development.
         (d)   This fee will not supersede mitigations for immediate direct
impacts determined through a project's environmental process.
      4.   Amount Of Fee:
         (a)   The amount of payment for each required parking space shall be
fixed by resolution adopted from time to time by the city council, but in no
case shall the fee exceed the estimated current cost to the city of providing
required parking spaces to serve the contemplated use. The resolution may
include allowances to increase the fee based on an established cost index.
         (b)   Fees paid in accordance with this subsection are collected to
fund a general public parking program serving the area described as the
downtown specific plan and are not intended for any specific improvement
project. The fees paid shall be the most current fees as established by the
city council.
         (c)   No city official or agency, including the city building
department, may issue a building permit for a development project until the fee
with respect to such development required by this subsection is paid. However,
the city may consider as a condition of a building permit issuance that the
property owner or lessee, if the lessee's interest appears of record, execute a
contract to pay the fee within a time frame specified in the contract.
      5.   Exemption From Fee: The following development projects shall be
exempt, in whole or in part, from the fee under the following conditions:
         (a)   Any development projects exempt pursuant to state or federal
law.
         (b)   Development projects governed by a disposition and development
agreement or a development agreement in which a parking in lieu fee is
specifically delineated, calculated and/or imposed in lieu of the fee
established by resolution of the city council.
      6.   Change Or Cessation Of Ownership And/Or Use: The following apply to
changes in use, ownership and development of properties for which in lieu
parking fees have been used to satisfy parking requirements pursuant to this
subsection:
         (a)   Any satisfaction of parking requirements through the payment of
fees under this subsection shall continue to apply to the subject property in
the event of a change in ownership.
         (b)   Any change of use of property, building additions or
redevelopment of a site, that requires more parking, may trigger additional
parking requirements. The number of spaces required by the change in use shall
be the difference between the number required by the new use or structure and
number required by the previous use or structure.
         (c)   If a structure is reduced in area or a use is replaced with a
use for which less parking is required according to the zoning regulations of
this title, an adjustment to the amount paid for parking in lieu fees may be
reduced to reflect the recalculated parking demand relative to the change in
building area or usage of the site. Once satisfied, the obligation for parking
in lieu fees shall be deemed to meet the parking requirement for which the in
lieu fee amount was previously determined. If the site is again changed to
increase parking demand, then the provisions of subsection (F)5(b) of this
section shall become effective.
      7.   Use Of Fee: The fees collected shall be used for the following
purpose: To construct, maintain or provide new public parking spaces with or
for the direct benefit of the area described as being the downtown specific
plan. Eligible projects include the following:
         (a)   Purchase of land for parking;
         (b)   Construction of a parking structure or surface parking lot;
         (c)   Conversion of existing private parking spaces to publicly
available spaces;
         (d)   Maintenance of public parking created through this program;
         (e)   Funding of parking program enforcement activities;
         (f)   Bicycle parking;
         (g)   Other items for parking and transportation improvements as
deemed appropriate by the city manager or by the executive director of the Taft
community development agency.
      8.   Trust Fund: An interest bearing trust fund shall be maintained
exclusively for the parking fund. These trust funds and interest earned by
these trust funds shall be used solely for improvement identified in subsection
(F)7 of this section.
      9.   Termination: If this fee program is terminated, any excess funds
collected prior to dissolution of this fee program shall be used for those
purposes identified in subsection (F)7 of this section.
      10.   Other Applicable Sections Of City Code: This subsection does not
supersede, replace or invalidate other applicable sections of any other city
ordinances, resolutions or this code. (Ord. 776-09, 11-17-2009; Ord. 849-22,
12-6-2022)
6-14-6: DESIGN STANDARDS:
   (A)   Dimensions Of Parking Spaces:
      1.   Automobile:
         (a)   All Uses: All parking spaces shall provide an additional two
feet (2') to the required parking space width where such parking spaces are
adjacent to a wall, supporting column or post, garage wall or other
obstruction.
         (b)   Covered/Enclosed Spaces: Covered parking spaces shall be a
minimum of nine feet (9') in width and nineteen feet (19') in depth. The
measurements shall not include the exterior walls or structural supports.
Minimum width for private residential enclosed garage door openings shall be
eight feet (8') for a one car garage, and sixteen feet (16') for a two (2) car
garage.
         (c)   Uncovered Spaces, Full Size: Each full size uncovered space
shall be a minimum of nine feet (9') in width and nineteen feet (19') in depth.
         (d)   Uncovered Space, Compact: Each full size uncovered compact space
shall be a minimum of nine feet (9') in width and sixteen feet (16') in depth.
         (e)   Parallel Space: Each parallel parking space shall have a minimum
dimension of eight feet (8') wide by twenty two feet (22') long. However, if
there is only one parallel space, and access is adequate to that space, the
length may be reduced to twenty feet (20').
         (f)   Tandem Space: Each tandem space shall be a minimum of nine feet
(9') in width and twenty two feet (22') in depth.
         (g)   Handicapped Parking Spaces, All Applicable Uses: Each
handicapped parking space shall be a minimum of fourteen feet (14') wide, lined
to provide a nine foot (9') wide parking area and a five foot (5') wide loading
area, and shall be a minimum of nineteen feet (19') in depth. If two (2)
handicapped spaces area located adjacent to each other, they may share the five
foot (5') wide loading area, resulting in a width of twenty three feet (23')
for the two (2) spaces.
      2.   Motorcycle Parking Spaces For All Applicable Uses: Each motorcycle
parking space shall have a minimum usable area of fifty six (56) square feet.
      3.   Recreational Vehicle Spaces, Multi-Family Residential Uses:
Recreational vehicle spaces shall require a minimum of four hundred (400)
square feet of usable area.
   (B)   Drive-Through Facilities: Drive-through facilities shall be designated
to conform to the specific standards designated in section
6-12-15 of this title.
   (C)   Standard Improvements:
      1.   Directional Arrows And Signs:
         (a)   Within parking facilities containing twenty one (21) or more
spaces, all aisles, approach lanes and maneuvering areas shall be clearly
marked with directional arrows to facilitate vehicular movement.
         (b)   In addition to directional arrows, the public works director may
require installation of signs to ensure safe and efficient vehicular movement.
      2.   Drainage: All parking facilities, except those serving two (2) or
fewer dwelling units, shall be graded and provided with drainage facilities for
the disposal of water without surface flow over sidewalks within public rights
of way.
      3.   Lighting:
         (a)   All parking facilities, except those serving two (2) or fewer
dwelling units, shall be provided with nighttime security lighting.
         (b)   Parking area lighting shall be designed to confine emitted light
to the parking area.
         (c)   Parking area lighting shall be of an energy efficient type, such
as, but not necessarily limited to, high or low pressure sodium lamps.
      4.   Safety Features:
         (a)   Additional requirements and guidelines for parking facility
safety, including design, internal layout, acceptable turning radii, pavement
slope, vehicular and pedestrian circulation, and other design features, may be
imposed by the public works director when determined to be appropriate.
         (b)   The public works director may require cross aisles within
parking areas where necessary to prevent safety hazards and vehicular
congestion on public streets which might otherwise be created by vehicular
queuing, by utilizing public streets to travel between parking aisles, or by
using the parking area as a "short cut" between public streets.
         (c)   Visibility of and between pedestrians, bicyclists and motorists
shall be assured when entering individual parking spaces, when circulating
within a parking facility, and when entering or exiting a parking facility. To
the extent possible, the parking facility shall be designed so that primary
pedestrian traffic to and from building entrances is along, rather than across,
parking aisles.
         (d)   Bicycle and automobile parking areas shall be separated by a
physical barrier of sufficient identification and distance to protect parked
bicycles from damage by cars.
      5.   Shopping Cart/Handcart Storage: Parking facilities serving uses that
make use of shopping carts/handcarts, such as, but not limited to,
supermarkets, drugstores and lumber stores, shall contain shopping cart/
handcart storage areas. The dimensions and locations of such storage areas for
the proposed use shall be approved by the planning director.
      6.   Striping And Identification:
         (a)   Automobile parking spaces shall be clearly outlined with painted
lines not less than three inches (3") in width on the surface of the parking
facility.
         (b)   In addition to the requirements of subsection (A)1(g) of this
section, all handicapped parking spaces shall be striped and marked according
to applicable state standards.
(1) Each parking space reserved for the handicapped shall be identified by a
permanently affixed reflectorized sign, of a construction and material approved
by the public works director, displaying the international symbol of
accessibility. The sign shall have a minimum size of seventy (70) square
inches, and shall be centered at the interior end of the parking space at a
maximum height of eighty inches (80") from the bottom of the sign to the
finished grade of the parking space.
(2) At each entrance to a parking facility containing one or more parking
spaces for the handicapped, a sign with a minimum size of seventeen inches by
twenty two inches (17"x22") shall be posted, stating clearly and conspicuously
in letters with a minimum height of one inch (1") the following:
Unauthorized vehicles not displaying distinguishing placards or license plates
issued for physically handicapped persons may be towed away at owner's expense.
Towed vehicles may be reclaimed at                or by telephoning
                  .
(3) Parking spaces reserved for the handicapped shall have, in addition to the
requirements of this subsection, a surface identification in blue paint of at
least three (3) square feet in size, duplicating the international symbol of
accessibility.
         (c)   All parking spaces for compact cars shall be clearly identified
as "compact car only".
         (d)   All motorcycle parking spaces shall have bollards installed and
appropriately spaced to prevent automobile usage. Motorcycle spaces shall be
marked in a manner to be clearly identified as motorcycle use only.
      7.   Surfacing:
         (a)   All permanent parking spaces, as well as loading and maneuvering
areas, shall be paved and permanently maintained with asphalt or concrete, or
an alternative all weather surfacing material approved by the public works
director.
         (b)   In order to prevent damage to pavement from motorcycle
kickstands, required motorcycle parking areas shall be paved with concrete or
equivalent surfacing material approved by the public works director.
         (c)   All bicycle parking and storage areas shall be surfaced to keep
the area in a dust free condition.
         (d)   Temporary parking facilities shall be provided with surfaces to
prevent dust.
   (D)   Dimensions Of Parking Bays And Aisles: The minimum dimensions of
parking bays and maneuvering aisles shall be set forth in figure 14.D of this
section.
   FIGURE 14.D
   PARKING BAYS AND MANEUVERING AISLES
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/66e9a239fd54ccd976f313efbae66f704cbcaff5/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2440.png]
 
   (E)   Location Of Parking:
      1.   Same Site; Exception: All parking spaces shall be provided on the
same site as the use requiring the parking spaces, except as authorized in
section
6-14-5, "Adjustments To Off Street Parking Requirements", of this chapter.
      2.   Multi-Family Residential Uses: All automobile spaces required for
multi-family residential uses shall be located a maximum of one hundred fifty
feet (150') from the dwelling units they are serving.
         (a)   Distances shall be measured from a dwelling unit's entry to the
parking spaces serving that unit. For developments where a stairway or elevator
provides access to a dwelling, the ground floor entry to that stairway or
elevator shall be considered to be the dwelling entry for purposes of measuring
distances to parking spaces.
         (b)   Because design considerations may make it impossible or
undesirable to meet the maximum distance requirement, a variation to this
requirement may be approved pursuant to section
6-14-5, "Adjustments To Off Street Parking Requirements", of this chapter.
      3.   Handicapped Spaces: All handicapped spaces shall be located as
closely as possible to the entrance to the use they are intended to serve and
shall be oriented so that the user of the handicapped parking space need not go
past the rear of the parking space in order to reach said entrance.
      4.   Car Pool Parking: All car pool parking spaces shall be clearly
marked "reserved for carpool" and shall be located as close as possible to the
entrance of the use they are intended to serve.
      5.   Compact Car Spaces: Permitted compact car spaces shall be dispersed
throughout the parking facility in groups of five (5) or more, if at least five
(5) compact spaces are provided. The location of compact parking facilities
shall be approved by the planning director.
      6.   Bicycle Spaces: All bicycle spaces shall be located as closely as
possible to the entrance of the use they are intended to serve, but situated in
a way that does not obstruct primary pedestrian circulation.
      7.   Bicycle Facilities: Bicycle facilities shall be located in highly
visible areas to minimize conditions conductive to theft and vandalism.
   (F)   Landscape And Screening Requirements:
      1.   Unenclosed Parking Facilities:
         (a)   Each unenclosed parking facility, excluding a detached single-
family residence, shall contain a minimum landscaped area in accordance with
table 14.E of this section. Where the total parking provided is separated by
differences in grade or by at least ten feet (10') of nonpaved area, each such
area shall be considered to be a separate facility for the purpose of this
requirement.
         (b)   The parking area shall be computed by including the areas used
for access drives, aisles, stalls, maneuvering areas and landscaping areas
within that portion of the project site that is devoted to vehicular parking
and circulation.
      TABLE 14.E
      MINIMUM PARKING AREA LANDSCAPING
 
Size Of Facility   Minimum Landscape Area
(In Square Feet)   (Percentage Of
                   Total Parking Area)
Under 15,000       5.0%
15,001 - 29,999    7.5%
30,000 and greater 10.0%
 
      2.   Number Per Row; Landscaped Island: No more than twelve (12) parking
spaces shall be permitted in a single row unless separated by a landscaped
island. Should anyone submitting a development proposal be either unwilling or
unable to comply with this provision, that person may appear before the
planning commission for its determination as to whether or not this provision
shall apply.
         (a)   Landscaped islands shall have the following minimum dimensions,
exclusive of curbing, and shall be of sufficient size to accommodate the growth
of trees:
            (1) Five feet (5') wide by nineteen feet (19') long for a single
row of full size parking spaces.
            (2) Five feet (5') wide by thirty eight feet (38') long for a
double row of full size parking spaces.
            (3) Five feet (5') wide by sixteen feet (16') long for a single row
of compact parking spaces.
            (4) Five feet (5') wide by thirty two feet (32') long for a double
row of compact parking spaces.
         (b)   Within each landscaped island, a minimum of one canopy type
tree, at least fifteen (15) gallons in size, shall be provided.
      3.   Irrigation: All landscaped areas shall be provided with an automatic
irrigation system, which shall be continuously maintained.
      4.   Additional Islands: In addition to the preceding landscape
standards, parking facilities containing more than three thousand six hundred
(3,600) square feet of uncovered parking area shall include landscape islands
at the ends of all parking lanes.
      5.   Temporary Parking Facilities: The parking area landscape standards,
contained herein, shall not apply to temporary parking facilities; however,
minimum landscaping may be required for temporary parking facilities as part of
the issuance of a temporary use permit.
   (G)   Access:
      1.   Parking Access From Streets:
         (a)   Access to parking spaces, other than four (4) or fewer spaces
serving a residential use, shall not require backing onto a public or private
street.
         (b)   All spaces within a parking facility shall be accessible without
entering a public right of way or private street.
      2.   Driveway Widths And Clearances: For purposes of this section, a
"driveway" shall be defined as an access leading from a public street, a right
of way, or a private street to a parking area, or from one parking area to
another, but shall not be defined to include any aisle or maneuvering area. All
driveways shall comply with the following standards:
         (a)   Driveways for single-family structures shall not be less than
ten feet (10') in width for a one car garage and sixteen feet (16') in width
for a two (2) car garage, and shall be maintained free and clear of all
obstructions.
         (b)   Driveways for multi-family dwelling units and nonresidential
uses shall be in accordance with the requirements of table 14.F of this
section.
         (c)   Driveways which serve a single-family development shall be
defined as the paved area leading from a public street or right of way, or a
private street, to the designated parking area.
         (d)   All abandoned or unused existing driveway approaches, within a
street right of way, shall be removed and shall be replaced with sidewalk, curb
and gutter at the expense of the lot owner in accordance with the standards
adopted in this title.
      3.   Gated Entries: Gates which serve to limit or control access to
parking facilities require special consideration and regulation since their
design may significantly impact parking demand and usage, as well as vehicular
circulation into and within the parking area. Requests for gated entries shall
be submitted to the planning director and shall be accompanied by a study
addressing the following issues:
         (a)   Type and operation of gate;
         (b)   Adequacy of vehicle stacking area;
         (c)   Effect of gated entry on parking usage and distribution on the
site;
         (d)   Effect of gated entry on parking for surrounding or adjacent
areas.
   (H)   Loading Area Design Requirements:
      1.   Design: Loading areas shall be designated to provide adequate area
for backing and maneuvering on site, and shall not require maneuvering within
public rights of way or backing onto or from a public street.
      2.   Location Of Loading Doors: Loading doors fronting a public street
shall not be located closer than seventy feet (70') from the property line, and
shall not encroach into side or rear setback areas.
      3.   Height Of Screen Walls, Wing Walls: Screen walls and wing walls for
screening loading areas shall have a maximum height of twelve feet (12').
      TABLE 14.F
      DRIVEWAY DIMENSIONS FOR MULTI-FAMILY
      DWELLINGS AND NONRESIDENTIAL USES
Driveway dimension:
 Width, excluding flares or curb radius:
  Minimum (one-way)                      15 feet
  Minimum (two-way)                      24 feet
  Maximum                                36 feet
 Turn radius 1:
  Minimum                                15 feet
  Maximum                                50 feet
 Minimum spacing2:
  From side property line                5 feet
  From street corner                     15 feet
 
      Notes:
      1.   On site driveway exposed to entry or exit by right turning vehicles
(applicable only to driveways with curb radius).
      2.   Minimum spacing is measured along the curb line from the top of
driveway "x" to the side property line, or the beginning of the intersection.
A larger dimension may be required for emergency vehicle access.
(Ord. 768-08, 8-19-2008)
CHAPTER 15
SIGN REGULATIONS
SECTION:
6-15-1: Purpose And Intent
6-15-2: Administration
6-15-3: Sign Standards
6-15-4: Sign Regulations
6-15-5: Exempt Signs
6-15-6: Temporary Signs
6-15-7: Churches And Other Institutional Uses
6-15-8: Planned Sign Program
6-15-9: Public Safety Signs
6-15-10: On Site Subdivision And Commercial Real Estate Signs
6-15-11: Nonconforming Signs
6-15-12: Violations
6-15-1: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
   (A)   Signs are considered to be an essential economic and visual element of
the community. They contribute significantly to its visual quality, thus
influencing perceptions of that community. In communities where there has been
an uncontrolled proliferation of signs, the result has often been clutter,
confusion and visual blight to the detriment of that community's image, and to
its economic development. However, under proper regulation, signs may be
designed and displayed to effectively convey their intended message and to help
create a community, which is well organized and visually appealing.
   (B)   It is the intent of this chapter to establish standards for proposed
and existing signs in the city in order to protect its physical and economic
environment, to implement the policies of the general plan, and to promote
public health, safety and general welfare.
   (C)   The general objectives and provisions of this chapter are intended to:
      1.   Ensure that signs serve primarily to identify an establishment on a
site and to direct persons to various activities and enterprises in order to
provide for maximum public convenience;
      2.   Ensure that signs are compatible and harmonious with their
surroundings and adjacent land uses;
      3.   Ensure that signs are expressive of the identity of the individual
properties and of the community as a whole;
      4.   Avoid traffic hazards by minimizing visual competition among signs
and by providing clear identification of businesses;
      5.   Encourage signs which are well designed and attractive in appearance
and provide incentives and latitude for variety, innovation, pleasing design
relationships and spacing; and
      6.   Provide criteria for signs to ensure the development of a high
quality visual environment. (Ord. 806-15, 1-20-2015)
6-15-2: ADMINISTRATION:
   (A)   Compliance Required:
      1.   No person, business, organization or entity of any kind whatsoever
shall place, erect or maintain, or cause or allow to be placed, erected or
maintained, any sign or sign structure, contrary to or in violation of any of
the provisions of this chapter.
      2.   Any sign or sign structure, which is being displayed or is being
poorly maintained in violation of the provisions of this chapter, shall be
taken down, removed or altered to comply with the provisions of this chapter.
It shall be the responsibility of the owner, agent or person having the
beneficial use of the building or structure or land upon which such sign or
sign structure may be found to take down, remove or alter the sign or sign
structure to comply with the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Sign Permits And Review:
      1.   Permits Required: No sign or sign structure shall be placed, erected
or maintained within the city without prior issuance of a sign permit, unless
such sign is specifically exempted by this title or by other city ordinances.
Building and electrical permits may also be required. Signs or sign structures
placed, erected or maintained without all required permits, and not exempted by
this title or by other city ordinance, shall be deemed illegal.
      2.   Permit Applications: Applications for sign permits or for approval
of planned sign programs shall be made on forms provided by the planning
department and shall be accompanied by plans and exhibits as required. Upon
receipt of a sign application, the planning director shall inform the applicant
as to the completeness of the submittal and of additional materials required,
if any. No sign application shall be forwarded to the appropriate reviewing
authority for approval, approval subject to modifications or denial, until the
applicant has submitted a complete application.
      3.   Review And Decision: The reviewing authority shall determine if the
proposed sign or planned sign program conforms to the provisions of this
chapter and shall accordingly approve, approve subject to modifications and/or
conditions, or deny the sign application.
   (C)   Written Authorization: Written authorization shall be required from
the owner or authorized agent of the premises prior to placing, erecting or
maintaining a sign or sign structure on any property.
   (D)   Review Responsibilities:
      1.   Planning Director:
         (a)   All initial planned sign programs.
         (b)   Freestanding directional signs (e.g., parking lot entry signs)
over four (4) square feet in area and four feet (4') in height.
         (c)   Any sign requiring a sign permit as required by the provisions
of this title.
      2.   Planning Commission:
         (a)   Sign variances.
         (b)   Where signage is part of a development application requiring
planning commission review and approval.
   (E)   Interpretations: In all sign applications, where a matter of
interpretation arises, the more specific definition or the more rigorous
standard shall prevail. Whenever the planning director determines that the
application of any provision for this chapter is uncertain, the issue shall be
referred to the planning commission for determination.
   (F)   Appeals: Appeals to decisions regarding signs shall be filed and
reviewed pursuant to the provisions of section
6-2-19 of this title, except that the planning commission shall consider
appeals of all staff decisions upon receipt of any such appeal.
   (G)   Variances: Variances from the requirements of this chapter shall be in
accordance with the provisions of section
6-2-6 of this title. In addition to the findings specified in section
6-2-6 of this title, the following additional findings shall be made prior to
approving a variance for signs:
      1.   The site has a unique character or features that cause visibility
problems, thus causing undue economic burden or business hardship; and
      2.   No other proposed signing alternative or design would be feasible or
would provide reasonable signage in accordance with this chapter; and
      3.   The proposed sign does not create a traffic hazard; and
      4.   The proposed sign does not create a visual blight to the community;
and
      5.   The proposed sign does not adversely affect adjacent properties; and
      6.   The proposed sign is in compliance with the provisions of this title
in regard to regulations apart from those imposed by this chapter.
   (H)   Illegal Signs:
      1.   Specified: The following signs and sign structures shall be
considered illegal:
         (a)   Unsafe Signs Or Sign Structures: A sign or sign structure shall
be deemed unsafe if determined by the building official to be a danger or to
create a potential hazard to the public.
         (b)   Abandoned Signs And Sign Structures: A sign or sign structure
which, for a period of thirty (30) days or more, does not advertise or identify
an ongoing business, business product or service available on or off the
premises where the sign or sign structure is located, shall be deemed
abandoned.
         (c)   Illegally Erected Signs And Sign Structures: A sign or sign
structure shall be illegally erected if it violates any provision of this
chapter, including, but not limited to, a sign or sign structure which does not
have required permits, or a sign or sign structure which has been erected
without first complying with all ordinances and regulations in effect at its
time of construction and erection or use. No sign or sign structure that was
placed or erected in violation of any previously existing sign ordinances or
regulations, by virtue of adoption of this chapter, shall become conforming or
legal.
      2.   Nuisance Declared: All illegal signs and sign structures are hereby
deemed to be nuisances.
   (I)   Prohibited Signs And Sign Structures: The following types of signs are
prohibited in the city:
      1.   Signs or sign structures having any animated, moving or rotating
parts, except for signs or sign structures which have historical marketing
significance unique to a profession, rather than an individual business, such
as barber poles, including signs that have alternating messages that change
more than once every five (5) minutes. Notwithstanding the above, time and
temperature displays may be permitted in commercial and industrial zone
districts.
      2.   Flashing or otherwise light animated signs which contain or are
illuminated by lights which are intermittently on and off, change in intensity,
or which create the illusion of flashing in any manner.
      3.   Signs which make sounds.
      4.   Signs or sign structures which by color, wording, design, location
or illustration resemble, obscure, imitate or otherwise limit the effectiveness
of traffic control signs or devices.
      5.   Signs or sign structures which create a potential safety hazard by
obscuring a clear view of pedestrian or vehicular traffic.
      6.   Balloons and/or other inflatable signs, tethered or not, used to
draw attention to a use or event, unless expressly permitted in this chapter.
      7.   Flags, pennants, streamers, spinners, festoons, windsocks, valances
or similar displays, temporary or permanent, unless expressly permitted in this
chapter.
      8.   Movable or portable signs or sign structures, including signs
attached to or painted on trailers or vehicles parked on public or private
property for the purpose of gaining unauthorized sign area.
      9.   Signs or sign structures drawn or painted onto or otherwise affixed
to trees or rocks, or onto other landscape or hardscape areas.
      10.   Building mounted signs or sign structures placed on or above the
eave line of a pitched or mansard roof, or above the top of a wall of a
building with a flat or parapet roof.
      11.   Off site advertising signs and displays.
      12.   Signs or sign structures placed within, on or over public right of
way, on public land or on utility poles, unless an encroachment permit has been
approved for such a sign by the public works director.
      13.   Any sign or sign structure not specifically permitted in this
chapter.
      14.   Any sign that projects more than twelve inches (12") from a
building wall, unless expressly permitted in this chapter.
   (J)   Enforcement: It shall be the duty and authority of the planning
director to enforce the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 806-15, 1-20-2015)
6-15-3: SIGN STANDARDS:
The following design criteria shall be used by the planning director in order
to determine if a proposed sign is consistent with the intent of this chapter:
   (A)   Identification: Major identification signs shall serve primarily to
identify the name or type of business or other land use.
   (B)   Architectural Context: Sign design shall harmonize with the
architectural design and details of the building it serves, with other signs on
the building, with the building's surroundings, and with the business or other
activity that the sign identifies. Further, signs shall not cover or obstruct
significant architectural elements.
   (C)   Design Elements: The following design elements shall be addressed:
      1.   Materials: Creativity in use of materials is encouraged. Durable
materials, which are compatible in appearance with the building supporting or
identified by the sign, shall be used.
      2.   Colors: Sign colors should harmonize with the building it serves and
with adjacent landscaping and buildings.
      3.   Letter Style: Simple lettering styles should be used for ease of
identification. Legibility should take priority over complexity in the design
of the sign face.
      4.   Illumination: Illuminated signs shall be lighted to the minimum
level required to ensure adequate nighttime readability. Specific illumination
levels shall be in accordance with this title.
      5.   Landscaping: Freestanding signs shall be located in a landscaped
area, which shall flank all sides of the sign, and is of a shape, design and
size equal to at least the area of the sign face and shall be in scale with the
overall proportions of the sign and its support structures.
      6.   Detraction From Other Signs: Signs should not detract from the
visibility of other signs on or adjacent to the site where the sign is placed.
      7.   Trademarks: Registered trademarks may be permitted as design
elements.
   (D)   Sign Area Measurement: For the purpose of this chapter, "sign size"
shall mean the sign area. Such area shall be more specifically defined as
follows:
      1.   Sign Area: "Sign size or area" shall be defined as the entire area
of the sign face, including nonstructural perimeter trim and excluding
architectural detailing, support structures and/or uprights on which the sign
is supported.
      2.   Window Signs: "Window area" shall be computed by calculating each
window pane or panel. The area shall be separate for each building face and for
each window. A group of window panes or panels may be considered one window if
they are adjoining on the building face and are less than six inches (6")
apart.
      3.   Building Mounted And Wall Signs With Individual Letters: The area of
building mounted or wall signs composed of individual letters affixed to a
building or wall shall be considered to be the aggregate area within a maximum
of three (3) rectangular figures which enclose and connect the extreme limits
of up to three (3) message areas consisting of any writing, representation,
emblem or any figure, or similar character.
      4.   Wall Sign Panel: If a sign panel is inserted into or onto a wall,
the area of the panel shall be considered to be the sign area.
      5.   Double Faced Signs: If a sign has sign faces, which are placed back
to back, no more than two feet (2') from one another, its sign area shall be
considered to be the area of the larger face if the two (2) faces are of
unequal area. If, for example, the maximum permitted sign area is twenty (20)
square feet; a double faced sign may have an area of twenty (20) square feet on
each face.
      6.   Three-Dimensional Signs: If a sign has three (3) or more faces, its
sign area shall be considered to be the sum of the areas of each individual
face. Thus, if a sign has four (4) faces and the maximum permitted sign area is
twenty (20) square feet, the maximum allowable area for each face is five (5)
square feet.
      7.   V-Shaped Signs: If a sign is V-shaped, with an angle between two (2)
adjoining faces, its sign area shall be the sum of the areas of the two (2)
sign faces.
      8.   Separated Panel Signs: The sign area of separated panel signs (those
signs having empty spaces between copy panels) shall be considered to be the
entire area encompassed by the sign face, including the empty spaces between
panels.
      9.   Signs Painted On Buildings: Any sign painted on a building shall be
included in the calculation of the total sign area for the site upon which it
is placed. Painted signs shall be of similar high quality and durability as
fabricated signs. Painted signs shall be regularly maintained, repainted and
touched up over time as it fades and is damaged by weather, sun and other
natural elements.
   (E)   Sign Height Measurement, Freestanding Signs: Sign height for
freestanding signs shall mean the greatest vertical distance, between the top
of the sign, including any accompanying architectural features of the sign, and
the finished grade of the property it serves.
   (F)   Sign Location:
      1.   Designated In Table: Signs shall be located in accordance with the
provisions for each land use district, type of development or type of sign, as
designated in section
6-15-4, table 15.A of this chapter.
      2.   No Off Site Signs: All signs shall be located on the same premises
as the land use or activity identified by the sign, unless the provisions of
this chapter expressly permit the off site location of a sign.
      3.   Utility Lines: No sign shall be located closer to overhead utility
lines than the distance prescribed by California law, or by the rules duly
promulgated by agencies of the state, or by the applicable public utility.
      4.   Traffic Safety: No sign shall be located in such a manner as to
obstruct free and clear vision of pedestrian and vehicular traffic.
      5.   Public Right Of Way: No sign shall be located within, over or across
a public right of way, except as expressly permitted in subsection
6-15-2(I)12 of this chapter. (Ord. 806-15, 1-20-2015)
   (G)   Sign Illumination:
      1.   Illumination Levels: A sign permit shall be required to adjust a
sign's illumination level if it is determined to be excessive as the result of
the city's evaluation. Illumination shall be considered excessive if it is
substantially greater than the illumination of other nearby signs, if it
interferes with the visibility of other signs or with the perception of objects
or buildings in the vicinity of the sign, if it directs glare toward streets or
motorists, or if it adversely impacts nearby residences or neighborhoods. The
maximum illumination level for fluorescent lamps shall be four hundred thirty
(430) mill amperes. Illumination levels shall be indicated on the sign plan.
      2.   Externally Illuminated Signs: The light source for externally
illuminated signs shall be arranged and shielded to substantially confine all
direct light rays to the sign face and away from streets and adjacent
properties. Externally illuminated signs shall be subject to illumination level
review.
   (H)   Sign Maintenance: Every sign, sign structure, wall surface surrounding
such sign and ground mounted area within the city shall be maintained in good,
safe structural and physical condition. All signs, together with supports,
braces, guys, anchors and electrical components, shall be kept in safe,
presentable and good structural condition. All defective or broken parts shall
be replaced. Exposed surfaces shall be kept clean, in good repair, and painted
where paint is required. The planning director may order the repair or removal
of any sign determined by the building official to be unsafe, defective,
damaged or substantially deteriorated.
   (I)   Language: In the event that a substantial amount of the sign copy area
uses a language other than English as the primary language, such sign shall be
worded both in English and the primary language or languages involved.
Additional sign copy area shall not be provided to accommodate multiple
languages.
   (J)   Signs On Vehicles: Signs are allowed on vehicles, without sign
permits, when they are painted or attached directly to the vehicle so as to not
extend or project beyond the vehicle's original profile. Signs, which are
painted on or attached to a vehicle, must be incidental to the vehicle's
primary purpose of transporting people or goods on the public right of way, and
the vehicles may not be used primarily for advertising purposes. Signs on
vehicles may not include arrows or other directional devices, the purpose of
which is to direct those who observe such signs to a particular place of
business. Such vehicles include, but are not limited to, government or utility
company vehicles and construction equipment, company vehicles, oil field/
construction work trucks, cranes and equipment, food, parcel or other delivery
vehicles. (Ord. 806-15, 1-20-2015)
6-15-4: SIGN REGULATIONS:
Table 15.A of this section identifies signs that are permitted in each zone
district. In addition to the regulations contained in table 15.A of this
section, all signs must be in conformance with all other provisions of this
title.
   TABLE 15.A
   SIGN REGULATIONS BY LAND USE CATEGORY
Class Type Maximum Maximum   Maximum     Location Illumination Remarks
           Number  Sign Area Sign Height          Allowed
Class                Type         Maximum      Maximum    Maximum        Location     Illumination Remarks
                                  Number       Sign Area  Sign Height                 Allowed
    Signs permitted
A.  in residential                                                                             
    (RS, R-1, R-2,
    R-3) districts:
                                                                                                   Shall identify
                                  1 per                   Below eave                               only the name
   Nameplate        Wall or door occupied     2 sq. ft.  line           Wall or door No           and/or address
                                  unit                                                             of the
                                                                                                   occupant.
                                                          Below eave     5 ft.        May be       Shall only
    Apartment        Wall or      1 per street            line for wall  setback from illuminated  identify the
   identification   monument     frontage     12 sq. ft. sign and 4 ft. property     only in R-   apartment
                                                          for monument   line         2 and R-     complex by name
                                                          sign1                       3 districts  and address.
                                                                         10 ft.                    Name of
                                                          Below eave     setback from              institution
    Institutional    Wall or                              line for wall  front and 5               only.
   signs            monument     1 per use    24 sq. ft. sign and 4 ft. ft. setback  Yes          May incorporate
                                                          for monument   from side                 changeable
                                                          sign1          property                  copy.
                                                                         line
                                                                         At major                  Copy limited to
                                                                         entrances to              project/
                                                                         project/                  neighborhood
                                                                         neighborhood              name only.
   Neighborhood     Wall or      2 per major  48 sq. ft. 4 ft.          or           Yes          Allowed only if
    identification   monument     entrance                               residential               maintenance
                                                                         subdivision               responsibility
                                                                         of 5 or more              assigned to
                                                                         dwelling                  community
                                                                         units                     association.
                                  1 per street                           10 ft.
    Mobilehome park  Wall or      frontage up             10 ft. for     setback from
   identification   monument     to 2 per     24 sq. ft. wall; 4 ft.    property     Yes           
                                  major                   for monument1  line
                                  entrance
                                                                                                   All signs shall
                                                                                                   be removed
                                                                                                   within 30 days
                                                                                                   after the sale/
                                                                         10 ft.                    rental of the
                                  2 for                                  setback from              last unit in
    Project                       subdivisions                           any street.               the project.
   identification   Freestanding more than 5  76 sq. ft. 15 ft.         Located on   No           Refer to
    sign, temporary  (on site)    acres,                                 the site of               section
                                  otherwise 1                            the project/              6-15-10 of this
                                  sign                                   subdivision               chapter for
                                                                                                   regulations
                                                                                                   pertaining to
                                                                                                   off site
                                                                                                   subdivision
                                                                                                   signs.
                                  To be                                                            To identify
    Pedestrian                    determined                             May not be                tenants and
   project          Wall or      by the       4 sq. ft.  5 ft.          located in   Yes          provide
    directory        freestanding planning                               any required              directions to
                                  director                               setback                   individual
                                                                                                   units.
   Real estate:                                                                                
                                                                                                   Copy limited to
                                                                                                   the sale, rent
                                                                         Within the                or lease of the
    Residential    Freestanding 1 per        6 sq. ft.  5 ft.          subject      No           subject
                                  residence                              property                  property. Refer
                                                                                                   to subsection
                                                                                                   6-15-5(B) of
                                                                                                   this chapter.
      Subdivision,
      on site
      commercial
      real estate
    signs and                                                                                
      kiosks (refer
      to section
      6-15-10 of
      this chapter)
    Signs permitted
    for office
B.  buildings in                                                                               
    commercial (DC,
    GC) districts:
                                               1/2 sq.
                                               ft. of
                                               sign area
                                  1 each per   per linear Below eave     May not be
    Business         Wall or      street or    foot of    line for wall  located in a
   identification   monument     parking      building   sign and 4 ft. required     Yes           
    (single tenant)               frontage     fronting   for monument1  setback area
                                               on a
                                               street, 24
                                               sq. ft.
                                               maximum
                                               1/2 sq.                                             Copy shall
                                               ft. of                                              pertain only to
                                               sign area                                           the name and/or
                                               per linear                                          address of the
                                  1 per tenant foot of                                             building.
                     Wall         per street   building   Below eave     Wall or      Yes          Illumination
                                  frontage     fronting   line           canopy                    shall be
                                               on a                                                reverse
                                               street, 40                                          backlit,
                                               sq. ft.                                             channel lit or
    Building                                   maximum                                             indirectly
    identification                                                                                 illuminated.
    (multiple                                  1/2 sq.                                             Copy shall
    tenant)                                    ft. of                                              pertain only to
                                               sign area                                           the name and/or
                                               per linear                Shall be set              address of the
                                               foot of                   back 5 ft.                building.
                     Monument     1 per street building   4 ft.1         from         Yes          Illumination
                                  frontage     fronting                  property                  shall be
                                               on a                      line                      reverse
                                               street, 40                                          backlit,
                                               sq. ft.                                             channel lit or
                                               maximum                                             indirectly
                                                                                                   illuminated.
                                                                                                   Copy shall
                                                                                                   pertain only to
                                                                                                   the name and/or
                                                          Below eave                               address of the
                                                          line for a     Shall be                  center and/or
    Center                        1 per each              wall sign, 15  setback 5                 tenants of the
   identification   Wall or      street       100 sq.    ft. for a      ft. minimum  Yes          center.
    (multiple        monument     frontage     ft.        freestanding   from                      Planter base or
    tenant)                                               sign and 4 ft. property                  landscaped area
                                                          for a monument line                      to be provided
                                                          sign1                                    equal to 4
                                                                                                   times the area
                                                                                                   of 1 face of
                                                                                                   the sign.
    Pedestrian                    To be                   6 ft. for                                To identify
    business         Wall or      determined              monument;      May not be                tenants and
   directory        monument     by the       15 sq. ft. below eave     located in   Yes          provide
    (multiple        sign         planning                line for wall  any required              directions to
    tenant)                       director                sign           setback                   individual
                                                                                                   establishments.
                                                                         Adjacent to               Copy limited to
   Nameplate        Wall         1 per tenant 4 sq. ft.                primary                  name and
                                                                         entrance of               address of each
                                                                         each tenant               tenant.
                                               25% of
   Window signs     Window       1 per window window                               No            
                                               area
                                                          4 ft. for
    Institutional    Wall or                              monu-ment1     Not in
   signs            monument     1 per use    15 sq. ft. below eave     setback area Yes           
                                                          line for wall
                                                          sign
    High rise
   buildings (4                                                                               
    stories or
    more):
                                                                                                   Copy is limited
                                                                                                   to 1 company
                                                                                                   name and/or
                                                                                                   address per
                                                          To be          Above the                 building.
                                                          determined by  windows of                Company logos
      Building                    2 per        300 sq.    city council   the highest               may be used in
    identification Wall sign    building     ft.        upon           floor and    Yes          combination
                                                          recommendation below the                 with letters.
                                                          of planning    eave line                 Signs shall be
                                                          director                                 designed to be
                                                                                                   compatible with
                                                                                                   the
                                                                                                   architecture of
                                                                                                   the buildings.
                                               22 sq. ft. Below the      Near the
      Secondary                                maximum    second floor,  entrance of
    tenant         Wall sign    4 per        per sign.  or 20 ft.      the tenants  Yes           
      identification              building     Maximum    whichever is   they
                                               letter     less           identify
                                               height 18"
                                                                                                   Shall contain
                                                                                                   only the name
      Center or                   1 per street                           At main                   and/or tenants
    project        Monument     frontage     40 sq. ft. 4 ft.1         entrance     Yes          of the center,
                                                                                                   project and/or
                                                                                                   tenants of the
                                                                                                   center.
    Temporary signs
    same as
   temporary signs                                                                            
    allowed in
    commercial
    districts
    Signs
    (nonoffice)
C.  permitted in                                                                               
    commercial (DC,
    GC) districts:
    Single tenant
   sites - not part                                                                           
    of a center:
                                               1 sq. ft.
                                               of sign
                                               area per
                                               each
                                               linear
                                               foot of
                                               building
                                               fronting
                                               on a
                                               street. 75
                                               sq. ft.
                                               maximum.
                                               Sign area
                                               in MC,
                                               otherwise
                                               100 sq.
                                  1 single     ft.
                                  face sign    maximum.
                                  per building In                                                  Allowable
                                  per street   addition,  May not        May be                    aggregate wall
    Business       Wall or      or parking   1 sq. ft.  project above  located on   Yes          sign area shall
      identification canopy       lot          of sign    the eave line  parapet or                exclude areas
                                  frontage.    per each                  canopy                    of allowed
                                  Maximum 3    linear                                              window signs.
                                  signs per    foot of
                                  business     the
                                               buildings
                                               rear
                                               elevation
                                               if a
                                               public
                                               entrance
                                               is
                                               provided
                                               from a
                                               rear
                                               street,
                                               alley, or
                                               parking
                                               lot, 50
                                               sq. ft.
                                               maximum
                                                                                                   Authorized in
                                                                         May only be               lieu of a wall
                                  1 double     25 sq. ft. May not extend attached to               sign.
   Business       Projecting   face sign    maximum    beyond eave    the building Yes          Authorized only
      identification              per frontage per face   line           to which the              where no
                                                                         copy relates              building
                                                                                                   setback is
                                                                                                   required.
                                                                         Window                    Allowable
                                               30% of the                lettering                 aggregate wall
      Business                    1 sign per   glass area                permitted on              sign area shall
    identification Window       window       upon which               interior or  Yes          exclude areas
                                               the sign                  exterior of               of allowable
                                               is located                glass window              wall signs.
                                                                         or door
                                                                         Must not
                                  1 double     24 sq. ft.                create                    May not be
    Business       Monument     face sign    in NC, 32  4 ft.1         traffic      Yes          located within
      identification              per street   sq. ft. in                hazard at                 5 ft. of public
                                  frontage     DC and GC                 corners or                right of way.
                                                                         driveways
                                                                                                   Site must be
                                                                                                   adjacent to an
      Business                    1 double     100 sq.                   Must be                   arterial street
    identification Freestanding face sign    ft. per    25 ft. for     located in   Yes          or highway, or
      (GC only)                   per          face       freestanding   landscaped                be within 1,000
                                  development                            area                      ft. of a
                                                                                                   freeway
                                                                                                   centerline.
                                                                         Shall not be
                                                                         located so
      Drive-through                                                      as to be a                Shall face away
    restaurants    Menu boards  2 per site   30 sq. ft. 7 ft.          hazard for   Yes          from the
                                                                         driveway or               street.
                                                                         corner
                                                                         radius
    Multiple tenant
   sites- shopping                                                                           
    centers:
                                               1 sq. ft.
                                               of sign                                             All shopping
                                               area per                                            centers shall
                                               each                                                develop a
                                               linear                                              coordinated
                                               foot of                                             sign program
                                               building                                            for all tenants
                                               fronting                                            and uses in
                                               on a                                                accordance with
                                               street.                                             the
                                               Not to                                              requirements of
                                               exceed 75                                           this title.
                                               sq. ft. In                                          Allowable
                                  1 single     addition,                                           aggregate wall
                                  face per     1 sq. ft.                                           sign area shall
                                  tenant per   of sign                                             exclude
                                  street or    area per   May not        May be                    allowable
    Business       Wall or      parking lot  each       project above  located on   Yes          window area
      identification canopy       frontage.    linear     the eave line  parapet or                used for signs.
                                  Maximum 2    foot of                   canopy                    A center is one
                                  signs per    the                                                 in which
                                  business     buildings                                           businesses and
                                               rear                                                structures are
                                               elevation                                           designed in an
                                               if a                                                integrated and
                                               public                                              interrelated
                                               entrance                                            development.
                                               is                                                  Such design is
                                               provided                                            independent of
                                               from a                                              the number of
                                               rear                                                structures,
                                               street or                                           lots or parcels
                                               parking                                             making up the
                                               lot. Not                                            center.
                                               to exceed
                                               50 ft.
                                                                         Window                    Allowable
                                               30% of the                lettering    No, except   aggregate of
      Business                    1 sign per   glass area                permitted on signs        window sign
    identification Window       window       upon which               interior or  constructed  area shall
                                               the sign                  exterior of  of neon tube exclude areas
                                               is located                glass window letters      of allowable
                                                                         or door                   wall signs.
                                                                         Below eave
                                                                         line and
                                                                         beneath                   Signs shall be
                                                                         canopy or                 uniform in
                                  1 per                                  marquee with              color and
    Business       Under        entrance     6 sq. ft.                7 ft.                    design for all
      identification marquee      (double      per face                  clearance                 tenant
                                  face)                                  from                      identification
                                                                         sidewalk                  within the
                                                                         level to                  center.
                                                                         lowest point
                                                                         of sign
                                                                         Shall be set
                                                                         back a                    Authorized for
                                                                         minimum of 5              detached single
    Business       Monument     1 double     25 sq. ft. 4 ft.1         ft. from     Yes          business in
      identification              face         per face                  front or                  structure of
                                                                         side                      not less than
                                                                         property                  5,000 sq. ft.
                                                                         lines
                                                                                                   Sign may
                                                                                                   identify center
                                                          Sign shall not                           and major
                                                          exceed the     Shall be                  tenants.
                                  1 double                height of the  located in                Vertical
      Center                      face per     75 sq. ft. structure it   landscaped                clearance of 10
    identification Freestanding each street  per face   identifies or  area; not be Yes          ft. required
                                  frontage                20 ft.,        located to                for
                                                          whichever is   be a traffic              freestanding
                                                          less           hazard                    signs
                                                                                                   projecting over
                                                                                                   vehicular
                                                                                                   passageway.
                                                                                                   Center site
                                                                                                   must be
                                                                                                   adjacent to the
                                                                                                   right of way of
                                                                                                   a highway or
                                                                                                   within 1,000
                                                                                                   ft. of a
                                                                                                   freeway
                                                                                                   centerline.
                                                                                                   Signs shall be
                                                                                                   constructed,
                                                                                                   erected and
                                                                                                   maintained to
                                                                                                   ensure
                                                                                                   integration
                                                                                                   with the
                                                                                                   surrounding
                                                                                                   environment and
                                                          35 ft., unless                           land uses, and
                                                          a flag test or                           shall be
                                                          other suitable Must be                   directed away
                                                          mechanism      located in                from
                                                          determines     landscaped                residential
      Center                                              that a greater area; may                 land use
      identification              1 double     125 sq.    height is      not obscure               districts.
    (freeway or    Freestanding face sign    ft. per    required due   another sign Yes          Sign text shall
      highway)                    per center   face       to vegetation  when viewed               be limited to
                                                          or other       from a                    the name of
                                                          factors that   freeway or                business.
                                                          adversely      highway                   Consolidation
                                                          detract from                             of multiple
                                                          the 35 ft.                               business names
                                                          provision                                or logos shall
                                                                                                   be encouraged
                                                                                                   in order to
                                                                                                   reduce the
                                                                                                   number of
                                                                                                   signs.
                                                                                                   Signs shall be
                                                                                                   serviced by
                                                                                                   underground
                                                                                                   utility
                                                                                                   connection.
                                                                                                   Signs shall
                                                                                                   advertise only
                                                                                                   businesses that
                                                                                                   are located
                                                                                                   within 1,000
                                                                                                   ft. of a
                                                                                                   freeway
                                                                                                   centerline.
                                                                         Shall be set
                                                                         back a                    Sign may
      Center                                                             minimum of 5              identify
    identification Monument     1 double     25 sq. ft. 4 ft. above    ft. from     Yes          center, address
      (all cases)                 face         per face   grade1         front or                  of center and
                                                                         side                      major tenants.
                                                                         property
                                                                         lines
                                                                         Shall not be
                                                                         located so
      Drive-through                                                      as to be a                Shall face away
    restaurants    Menu boards  2 per site   30 sq. ft. 7 ft.          hazard for   Yes          from the
                                                                         driveway or               street.
                                                                         corner
                                                                         radius
   Service station:                                                                          
                                               10% of     Not above eave
                                  1 per street building   line or 20
                     Wall         frontage     face not   ft., whichever             Yes          A combination
                                  maximum 2    to exceed  is less                                  of monument and
                                               50 sq. ft.                                          wall may be
                                                                                                   used, but no
                                                                                                   more than a
                                                                                                   total of 3
                                                                                                   signs.
                                                                                                   The monument
      Service                                                                                      sign shall be
      station                                                                                      designed to
      identification              1 per street                                                     include the
                     Monument     frontage     36 sq. ft. 4 ft.                                  identity of the
                                  maximum 2    per face                                            station. Price
                                                                                                   signs are
                                                                                                   allowed in
                                                                                                   accordance with
                                                                                                   state
                                                                                                   regulations.



                                                                                                   Special service
                                                                                                   signs shall be
                                  1 for each                                                       limited to such
                                  pump island,                                                     items as self-
    Special        Wall or      not to       2 sq. ft.  8 ft.                      No           serve, full
      service signs  ground       exceed a     per face                                            serve, air,
                                  total of 4                                                       water and
                                  per station                                                      cashier, and
                                                                                                   shall be
                                                                                                   nonilluminated.
                                               125 sq.
                                               ft. per
                                               face if
                                               adjacent
                                               to a
                                               highway or                Must be
      Service                     1 double     within                    located in
    station        Freestanding face sign    1,000 ft.  25 ft.         landscaped   Yes           
      identification              per center   of the                    area
                                               centerline
                                               of a
                                               freeway,
                                               otherwise
                                               75 sq. ft.
                                               per face
                                                                                                   Small accessory
                                                                                                   signs are
                                                                                                   limited to
                                                                                                   warning signs
                                                                                                   such as "No
                                                                                                   Smoking" and
                                                                                                   signs on gas
                                                                                                   pumps or
      Small          Wall or pump              2 sq. ft.                                           islands
    accessory      island       n/a          per face   8 ft.          On site      Yes          identifying the
      signs                                                                                        price of fuel,
                                                                                                   brand of gas,
                                                                                                   grade of gas
                                                                                                   and pumping
                                                                                                   instructions.
                                                                                                   Small accessory
                                                                                                   signs shall not
                                                                                                   require a sign
                                                                                                   permit.
   Temporary signs:                                                                          
                                               30% of the
    Building       Window       1 per window glazed                   Ground floor No            
                                               area of a                 windows only
                                               window
                                                                         Located so                Authorized upon
                                                                         as not to                 the issuance of
                                  1 single                               create                    a grading or
                                  face sign                              traffic                   building
    Construction   Freestanding per street   32 sq. ft. 10 ft.         hazard or    No           permit.
                                  frontage                               overhang                  Sign shall be
                                                                         public right              removed prior
                                                                         of way                    to certificate
                                                                                                   of occupancy.
      Future         Freestanding 1 per street                           Within the                Sign shall be
    facility of    wall or      frontage or  32 sq. ft. 8 ft.          subject      No           removed upon
      tenant         window       tenant       per face                  property                  occupancy of
                                                                                                   the building.
                                                                                                   To advertise
                                                                                                   the sale-lease
                                                                                                   of structure or
                     Freestanding 1 per street 32 sq. ft.                Within the                grounds and not
    Real estate    wall or      frontage     per face   8 ft.          subject      No           for the purpose
                     window                                              property                  of advertising
                                                                                                   an agency
                                                                                                   occupying the
                                                                                                   premises.
   Theaters:                                                                                  
                                  1 per screen                                                     Cases shall be
                                  for theaters                                                     mounted and
      Coming                      or per stage                           Near main                 shall be large
    attractions    Wall         for live     6 sq. ft.  8 ft.          entrance     Yes          enough to
      display case                theaters or                                                      display one 6
                                  cabarets                                                         sq. ft. poster
                                                                                                   each.
                                                                                                   All attraction
                                                                                                   boards shall be
                                                                                                   building
                                                                                                   mounted unless
                                                                                                   only one of the
                                                                                                   following
                                                                                                   findings can be
                                                                                                   made:
                                                                                                    
                                                                                                   1) A
                                                                                                   freestanding
                                                                                                   sign is the
                                                                                                   only feasible
                                                                                                   means by which
                                                                                                   the business
                                                                                                   conducted on
                                                                                                   the premises
                                                                                                   can obtain the
                                                                                                   same degree of
                                                                                                   identification
                                                                         May be                    to motorists as
                                                                         located in                that available
                                               20 sq. ft.                landscaped                to neighboring
                                  1 per        plus 10                   setback                   businesses that
                                  theater,     sq. ft.                   area,                     do not have
                                  theater      per screen                however,                  such signage;
    Attraction     Wall or      complex, or  or stage   25 ft.         shall not be Yes          or
      board          freestanding cabaret per  up to an                  located so                 
                                  street       overall                   as to be a                2) The building
                                  frontage     maximum of                hazard for                is set back
                                               40 ft.                    driveway or               from the street
                                                                         corner                    view by
                                                                         radius                    structures or
                                                                                                   mature
                                                                                                   vegetation such
                                                                                                   that a building
                                                                                                   mounted sign
                                                                                                   cannot provide
                                                                                                   adequate
                                                                                                   signage; or
                                                                                                    
                                                                                                   3) The
                                                                                                   architectural
                                                                                                   style,
                                                                                                   materials or
                                                                                                   design elements
                                                                                                   are such that a
                                                                                                   building
                                                                                                   mounted sign is
                                                                                                   not feasible or
                                                                                                   would detract
                                                                                                   from the
                                                                                                   building's
                                                                                                   appearance.
    Signs permitted
D.  in industrial                                                                             
    (I) district:
                                                                                                   Same as "Signs
                                                                                                   (nonoffice)
    Business                                                                                       permitted in
   identification                                                                           commercial
    (single tenant)                                                                                districts (DC,
                                                                                                   GC)" of this
                                                                                                   table.
   Multi-tenant                                                                              
    sites:
                                                                                                   Planter base or
                                                                                                   landscape area
                                                                                                   equal to or
                                                                                                   greater than
                                                                                                   the area of 1
                                                                                                   face of a sign.
                                                                         Shall not be              Shall contain
                                                                         located so                only the name
                                                                         as to create              of the center
                                                                         traffic                   or project, no
      Center or                   1 per street                           hazard for                tenant
    project        Entrance     entrance and 40 sq. ft. 4 ft.1         driveway or  Yes          information.
      identification monument     1 per major  per face                  corner                    For each public
                                  intersection                           radius, as                secondary
                                                                         determined                street with at
                                                                         by the city               least 150 ft.
                                                                         engineer                  of frontage, a
                                                                                                   monument sign
                                                                                                   may be
                                                                                                   permitted
                                                                                                   indicating the
                                                                                                   name and/or
                                                                                                   address of the
                                                                                                   center on site.
                                                                                                   Shall contain
                                               1 sq. ft.                                           only the name
                                               of sign                                             and/or address
                                               area per                                            and product of
      Business                    1 per street each       May not                                  company.
    identification Wall         or parking   linear ft. project above              Yes          A sign program
                                  lot frontage of         the eave line                            shall be
                                               building                                            required for
                                               frontage                                            developments
                                                                                                   with 3 or more
                                                                                                   tenants.
                                                                                                   Intended to
                                                                                                   list only the
                                                                                                   names and
      Business                    1 per street 32 sq. ft.                                          addresses of on
    directory      Freestanding or parking   per face   8 ft.                      Yes          site occupants.
                                  lot frontage                                                     Shall be
                                                                                                   designed as
                                                                                                   part of overall
                                                                                                   sign program.
                                                                                                   Copy limited to
                                  Minimum                                                          directional
                                  number                                 Minimum 5                 information,
      Advisory/      Wall or      necessary to                           ft. setback               such as
    directional    freestanding provide      4 sq. ft.  4 ft.          from         Yes          "entrance" or
                                  adequate                               property                  "exit", but no
                                  information                            lines                     directions to
                                                                                                   individual
                                                                                                   businesses.
                                                                                                   Intended to
                                                                                                   provide only
                                  1 per main                             At main                   name, address,
    Business       Window or    building     4 sq. ft.  6 ft.          building     No           telephone,
      information    wall sign    entrance                               entrance                  business hours
                                                                                                   and emergency
                                                                                                   information for
                                                                                                   occupant.
                                                                                                   Intended only
                                  2 per                                                            to identify the
                                  intersection                                                     name and
   Taft Airport     Wall or      entrance     160 sq.    5 ft.                      Yes          address of the
                     monument     onto airport ft.                                                 airport or as
                                  property                                                         approved by the
                                                                                                   planning
                                                                                                   commission.
    Temporary signs,
   as allowed in                                                                              
    GC, DC zone
    districts
    Signs permitted
E.  in the community                                                                           
    facilities (CF)
    district:
   Facility                                                                                   
    identification:
                                                          May not                                  Intended only
                                                          project above                            to identify the
                                                          eave line for                            name and
                     Wall,        1 per street            wall sign; 25                            address of a
    Community      monument, or or parking   30 sq. ft. ft. for                    No           public or
      facility       freestanding lot frontage per face   freestanding                             quasi-public
                                                          sign, 4 ft.                              facility or as
                                                          for monument                             approved by the
                                                          sign1                                    planning
                                                                                                   commission.
                                                          May not                                  Intended only
                                                          project above                            to identify the
                                                          eave line for                            name and
                                  1 per street            wall sign; 25                            address of a
    Public parks   Wall or      or parking   30 sq. ft. ft. for                    No           public or
                     freestanding lot frontage per face   freestanding                             quasi-public
                                                          sign, 4 ft.                              facility or as
                                                          for monument                             approved by the
                                                          sign1                                    planning
                                                                                                   commission.
 
Note:
   1.   Monument sign may exceed maximum height requirement if approved by the
planning commission.
(Ord. 806-15, 1-20-2015)
6-15-5: EXEMPT SIGNS:
The following signs shall be exempt from the sign review permit requirements,
and shall be permitted subject to the limitations contained in this chapter.
However, a building permit may be required.
   (A)   Temporary Political Signs:
      1.   Defined: A "temporary political sign" is defined as any
noncommercial sign that indicates any one or a combination of the following:
         (a)   The name and/or picture of an individual seeking election or
appointment to a public office.
         (b)   Relates to a forthcoming public election or referendum.
      2.   Placement Requirements: Placement of all temporary political signs
shall comply with the following requirements:
         (a)   The maximum size of individual temporary political signs
allowable in any zone district shall be as follows:
(1) Single family residential: Six (6) square feet.
(2) Multi-family residential: Twelve (12) square feet.
(3) Commercial and industrial districts: Thirty two (32) square feet.
         (b)   Candidates, campaign committees and other persons shall endeavor
to place or post temporary political signs no sooner than forty five (45) days
before an election. Any such signs shall be removed within fifteen (15) days
after an election to which the sign relates.
         (c)   Temporary political signs shall comply with the provisions of
subsection
6-15-2(I), "Prohibited Signs And Sign Structures", of this chapter, excepting
subsection
6-15-2(I)11 of this chapter.
         (d)   Temporary political signs shall be located on private property
only. No such sign shall be located in the public right of way, or on any
object located in the public right of way including, but not limited to, trees,
fence posts and utility poles.
         (e)   No temporary political signs shall be permitted that is in
violation of this chapter.
         (f)   No temporary political sign may be placed in a location that
hides from view any official traffic control devices.
         (g)   No sign permit or fee shall be required for temporary political
signs.
         (h)   Any temporary political sign in violation of this chapter shall
be deemed a nuisance and shall be abated pursuant to section
6-15-12 of this chapter and section
6-1-5 of this title.
   (B)   Residential Real Estate Signs: Real estate signs up to a maximum of
six (6) square feet in area and, if freestanding, a maximum of five feet (5')
in height, shall not require a sign permit. One real estate sign shall be
permitted per street frontage of a lot. Such signs shall be permitted to remain
while property is in escrow but shall be removed when the property referred to
is no longer for sale, rent or lease.
      1.   Riders: Riders which provide additional information about the
property, such as "sale pending", may be attached to the primary sign or
signpost as long as the total sign area does not exceed the maximum area
allowed.
      2.   On Premises Open House: Freestanding, on premises, "open house"
signs with a maximum area of three (3) square feet and a maximum height of
three feet (3') shall be permitted within the hours of nine o'clock (9:00) A.M.
and sundown daily.
      3.   Off Premises Open House: Freestanding, off premises, directional
"open house" signs with a maximum area of three (3) square feet and a maximum
height of three feet (3') shall be permitted between the hours of nine o'clock
(9:00) A.M. and sundown daily. Prior to placing such a sign on any property,
authorization is required from the owner of the property where the sign is to
be located.
   (C)   Temporary Garage/Yard Sale: One double faced sign, no more than six
(6) square feet in area and four feet (4') in height, is permitted without a
sign permit. Such signs may be placed only on the premises where the garage/
yard sale is being held and shall not be placed on public property or within a
public right of way. Such sign may be placed twenty four (24) hours prior to
the sale and must be removed immediately following the sale.
   (D)   Holiday Window Painting: Decorative window painting in connection with
a specific holiday is permitted without a sign permit; provided, that the
painting contains no commercial messages. Such painting may remain on the
window no more than forty five (45) days, after which all window painting in
connection with said holiday must be removed.
   (E)   Temporary Window Signs: Temporary window signs that are in compliance
with the provisions of this chapter are permitted in the commercial and
industrial zone districts; however, no such sign, or combination of signs,
whether promotional, permanent or any other type of sign, shall exceed thirty
percent (30%) of the glazed area of any window.
   (F)   Temporary Posters: Temporary posters for future limited term events,
which are to be held within thirty (30) days of the placement of such poster,
shall be permitted without a sign permit. Such posters may be off premises. If
placed in a window, the posters may not exceed fifteen percent (15%) aggregate
of the window area in which they are placed.
   (G)   On Site Construction Announcement Signs: On site construction
announcements signs, including names of the development, architect, contractor,
etc., up to a maximum thirty two (32) square feet in area without a sign permit
and, if freestanding, not exceeding six feet (6') in height, no more than three
(3) such signs shall be permitted on each main street per parcel. Such signs
shall be erected after the issuance of the building permits for the subject
parcel and shall be removed upon issuance of the first occupancy certificate
for the project referred to on the sign.
   (H)   Flags And Flagpoles:
      1.   Residential Uses: Any number of flags of a noncommercial nature are
allowed.
      2.   Nonresidential Developments:
         (a)   A total of three (3) flags may be displayed, inclusive of
official flags and flags of a commercial nature, except that additional
official flags may be allowed with a sign permit. Official flags are flags of
any nation, state, county, city or other noncommercial organization, and do not
require a permit.
         (b)   Subject to approval of a sign permit, a maximum of two (2) flags
of a commercial nature may be displayed on vertical poles; each such flag shall
be no larger than four feet by six feet (4'x6') in size.
         (c)   When a sign permit is required for a flag, said permit may be
approved if the planning director finds the flag complements the design of the
development where it is to be displayed.
      3.   Flagpole: Flags shall be displayed on poles manufactured for such
purpose. Flagpoles may be erected not less than ten feet (10') from any
property line. The height or the top of each flagpole shall not exceed the
maximum building height for the zone in which it is located.
      4.   Maintenance; Location: Flags shall be maintained in good condition
and shall not extend beyond the property line of the property on which they are
located.
   (I)   A-Frame And Sandwich Board Signs: A-frame, sandwich board and similar
signs are permitted without a permit, subject to the following standards:
      1.   Copy Area: Sign copy area shall be limited to six (6) square feet
with an overall maximum height of four feet (4').
      2.   Location: Signs shall be within fifteen feet (15') of the main
entrance of the business.
      3.   Clear Path Maintained: Signs shall not block a sidewalk or other
pedestrian path of travel. Businesses shall maintain a minimum four foot (4')
clear path of travel for pedestrians around the sign and to the main entrance.
      4.   Prohibited Locations: Signs shall not be located within the street,
sidewalk turf or tree planters, or within on site or street parking spaces.
(Ord. 806-15, 1-20-2015)
6-15-6: TEMPORARY SIGNS:
   (A)   Permit Required: No temporary sign, or display of any kind, shall be
permitted, except as specifically allowed by this chapter. A temporary sign
permit, on forms provided by the planning department, must be obtained prior to
installation of a temporary sign.
   (B)   Limitations Of Temporary Signs: A temporary sign may be approved for a
period of time, as specified in this section, for multiple-family residential,
commercial and industrial uses. The signs may be used to promote the sale of
new products, new tenant, new management, new hours of operation, a new
service, or to promote a special sale. Any business or property owner desiring
to use a temporary banner sign must file an application with a drawing or
photograph demonstrating the sign appearance with the planning department for
review and approval. The use of such signs is subject to the following
limitations:
      1.   Number Permitted: No more than one sign shall be permitted per
activity or business, per elevation facing a street right of way or parking
lot.
      2.   Design: The sign shall be a temporary sign designed either as a wall
sign, window sign or ground sign. The sign can be in the form of a banner,
flag, blow flag or pennant.
      3.   Size; Height: The sign shall not exceed fifty (50) square feet and
shall be posted below the roof. In the case of a ground sign, the height of the
sign shall not exceed eight feet (8').
      4.   Display Period: The sign shall be limited to a maximum display
period of sixty (60) days.
      5.   Display Criteria: The following temporary sign display criteria
shall apply:
         (a)   All temporary signs shall be constructed of durable material
that will not deteriorate during the time period in which the banner is
displayed. Temporary banners which become frayed, torn, faded, or showing
similar signs of fatigue or failure shall be deemed to be in violation of these
provisions.
         (b)   Temporary signs shall be securely affixed, on a minimum of four
(4) corners, on the facade of the building where the business is located.
         (c)   Temporary signs shall not be affixed to fences, light poles,
trees, extended over parking and/or landscaped areas or other similar
techniques.
         (d)   No temporary signs shall be affixed on, within or over any
public right of way.
   (C)   Grand Opening Signs: A grand opening sign may be approved for a period
of time, as provided in this subsection, in any multiple-family residential,
commercial or industrial zoning district to advertise a new business or a
change of business name following a closure. Any business or property owner
desiring to use a grand opening sign must file an application, together with a
drawing or photograph, to the planning division for review and approval by the
planning director or designee. An application must be made either prior to
opening or within the first sixty (60) days of operation. The use of such signs
is subject to the following limitations:
      1.   Devices Permitted: Grand opening signs include any combination of
signs, banners, pennants, balloons, streamers, beacons or other advertising
device.
      2.   Design: Grand opening signs shall be a temporary sign designed
either as a wall, window or ground sign.
      3.   Size; Height: Grand opening signs shall not exceed fifty (50) square
feet and shall be posted below the roof eave. In the case of a ground sign, the
height of the sign shall not exceed eight feet (8').
      4.   Prohibited Signs: Roof mounted signs and advertising devices are
prohibited.
      5.   Display Period: The sign shall be limited to a display period not to
exceed thirty (30) days prior to opening and sixty (60) days after opening, for
a total display period of ninety (90) days.
   (D)   Special Event Signs: Special event signs may be approved for a limited
period of time in any zoning district as a means of publicizing special events,
such as carnivals, festivals, pumpkin patches, charitable events, Christmas
tree lots and similar events, in conjunction with a special event permit. To
apply for approval of special event signs, any business or property owner must
submit an application with the city planning division, which describes the
proposed sign by means of a sketch and the display dates for review and
approval by the city manager or designee. Such special event signs shall be
limited to the following provisions:
      1.   Devices Permitted: Special event signs include any combination of
signs, banners, pennants, balloons, streamers, beacons or other advertising
device.
      2.   Design: Special event signs shall be a temporary sign designed
either as a wall, window or ground sign.
      3.   Size; Height: All special event signs shall not exceed fifty (50)
square feet and shall be posted below the roof eave and shall be no higher than
eight feet (8') in the case of a ground sign.
      4.   Time Period: Special event signs shall be limited to the time
periods stipulated in an approved special event permit.
   (E)   Temporary Balloon Signs: Temporary balloon signs may be permitted
subject to the following conditions:
      1.   Purpose: Balloon signs used for the purposes of commercial
development promotions, grand openings, special events of limited duration, and
like occasions.
      2.   Number: Each building or business shall be permitted one temporary
balloon sign for a maximum of two (2) occasions per calendar year with a
maximum duration of fourteen (14) days for each permitted use, or four (4) such
occasions, per calendar year, with a maximum duration of seven (7) days for
each such permitted use. Hot air balloons shall be permitted for a maximum of
one occasion per calendar year, with a maximum duration of three (3) days.
Longer durations may be approved by the planning commission.
      3.   Size; Height: The maximum height of any balloon sign shall not
exceed fifty five feet (55'), measured from ground elevation, and the maximum
size of any balloon shall not exceed twenty feet (20') in any dimension. A
balloon sign may exceed the maximum dimensional requirement, upon approval of
the planning commission, provided such balloons maintain a minimum twenty foot
(20') setback from any building and a ten foot (10') setback from any property
line.
      4.   Prohibited Signs: Any balloon sign which does not identify or
advertise the occupant of a building, lot or premises, or related to any
merchandise or to any business or activity available or being conducted at the
building, or business where the sign is located, is prohibited.
      5.   Anchoring: All balloon signs shall be securely anchored and erected
in conformance with all applicable building, electrical, sign and fire codes,
subject to approval by the planning director.
      6.   Hydrogen Type Prohibited: All hydrogen type balloons shall be
prohibited.
      7.   Construction Materials: All temporary balloon signs and tie downs
shall be constructed of nonconductive electric material. (Ord. 806-15, 1-20-
2015)
6-15-7: CHURCHES AND OTHER INSTITUTIONAL USES:
The planning director shall review and may issue sign permits for churches,
daycare centers, nursing homes and similar uses in any land use district as
follows:
   (A)   Identification Sign:
      1.   Number: One building mounted sign and one monument sign per street
frontage shall be permitted which identifies the main activity and the
accessory activity or use on the site. Said sign shall be building mounted or a
freestanding sign structure.
      2.   Freestanding Signs: The freestanding sign may be permitted if the
planning director makes any one of the following findings:
         (a)   A freestanding sign structure is necessary to provide adequate
identification of the institution to motorists.
         (b)   The building is set back from the street or obscured from street
view by structures or vegetation such that building mounted signage cannot
provide adequate access.
         (c)   The architectural style, materials or other design elements are
such that a building mounted sign is not feasible or would detract from the
building's appearance.
   (B)   Sign Standards:
      1.   Building Mounted Signs:
         (a)   Shall be a maximum of twenty four (24) square feet in area for
churches and other institutional uses on sites of one acre or less and thirty
two (32) square feet in area for all sites greater than one acre.
         (b)   Shall be placed below the eave line of buildings with a pitched
or mansard roof and below the top of the wall for buildings with a flat or
parapet roof.
      2.   Monument Sign: Shall be a maximum of six feet (6') in height and a
maximum of forty eight (48) square feet in area.
   (C)   Attraction Board: Attraction boards shall provide a means to
communicate future events or activities on a site. One attraction board shall
be permitted per site and shall be a maximum of twelve (12) square feet in area
on sites of one acre or less and eighteen (18) square feet in area for all
sites greater than one acre in size. Attraction boards may be individually wall
mounted or may be incorporated within an approved monument sign. (Ord. 806-15,
1-20-2015)
6-15-8: PLANNED SIGN PROGRAM:
The planning director shall review and may approve a sign permit for a planned
sign program for any new business park, industrial complex, shopping center,
office complex or retail center as follows:
   (A)   Eligible Businesses: Any building, business park, shopping center or
other contiguous group of businesses are eligible for consideration of a
planned sign program.
   (B)   Frontage, Site Size: No minimum frontage or site size is required.
   (C)   Common Design Elements: Signs within the planned sign program shall
have one or more common design elements, such as colors, materials,
illumination, sign type, sign shape, letter size and letter type.
   (D)   Harmony With Buildings: The sign program shall specify signs in
harmony with the materials, colors, architecture and other design features of
the buildings they identify.
   (E)   Findings For Approval: The planning director may approve a planned
sign program upon finding that:
      1.   The signs will not adversely affect other nearby properties.
      2.   It is consistent with the general plan and the provisions of this
title.
      3.   It will not constitute the granting of a special privilege nor
provide more visibility or exposure than is available to similarly situated
properties.
   (F)   Reviewing Authority:
      1.   Initial planned sign programs shall be reviewed by the planning
director.
      2.   Signs, which are consistent with approved planned sign programs,
shall be reviewed by the planning director. (Ord. 806-15, 1-20-2015)
6-15-9: PUBLIC SAFETY SIGNS:
   (A)   Public Safety, Access: Signs required by law for public safety or
access, such as "Exit" or "Fire Escape" shall be a maximum of two (2) square
feet or such other size as required by law and shall not require a sign permit.
   (B)   Hazard Warning: Signs warning of building, electrical, mechanical or
other hazards, such as "High Voltage", shall be a maximum of four (4) square
feet. (Ord. 806-15, 1-20-2015)
6-15-10: ON SITE SUBDIVISION AND COMMERCIAL REAL ESTATE SIGNS:
The following kiosks, on site subdivision and on site commercial real estate
signs may be permitted in any land use district as follows:
   (A)   Temporary On Site Subdivision Signs: The planning director shall
review and may approve temporary sign permits for temporary on site subdivision
signs for each main street frontage of the subdivision being subdivided. Signs
shall be for the identification of the property being subdivided, price
information and the developer's name, address and telephone number. Said signs
shall comply with the following standards:
      1.   Size; Height: Shall not exceed thirty two (32) square feet in area
and fifteen feet (15') in height.
      2.   Number; Location: Shall not exceed three (3) such signs for all such
phases of any subdivision and shall not be located on interior streets of the
subdivision. Three (3) additional signs per builder may be approved by the
planning director for each merchant builder for residential developments within
planned communities and shall be located within the site boundaries of the
planned community.
      3.   Removal: Shall be removed within ten (10) days from the final
initial sales of the subdivision.
      4.   Illumination: Shall not be illuminated.
   (B)   On Site Commercial Real Estate Signs: On site commercial real estate
signs permitted without a sign permit as follows:
      1.   Size; Height: Shall not exceed thirty two (32) square feet in area
and fifteen feet (15') in height.
      2.   Number: Shall not exceed one per street frontage or a total of three
(3) per site.
      3.   Removal: Shall be removed within ten (10) days from the final sale
or lease of the subject property or building.
      4.   Illumination: Shall not be illuminated.
   (C)   Kiosks:
      1.   Scope: The planning commission shall review and may approve
agreements between the city and applicants for off site business kiosks and
subdivision kiosks for the advertising of businesses and subdivisions within
the city. The business and kiosk sign program shall be treated as separate
kiosk sign programs. All liabilities, costs and/or expenses arising out of the
location, installation and construction of off site business or subdivision
kiosks shall be borne by said applicant, subject to provisions of any contract
entered into between the city and the applicant.
      2.   Requirements For Approval: The planning director shall review and
may approve sign permits for off site business kiosks and subdivision kiosks
subject to approved agreement as follows:
         (a)   May be located either in or out of the public right of way.
         (b)   No business sign panels shall be permitted on subdivision kiosks
and no subdivision sign panels shall be permitted on business kiosks.
         (c)   No kiosk shall contain more than a total of eight (8) business
or subdivision sign panels per sign face.
         (d)   Shall be a maximum of thirty two (32) square feet in area and
fifteen feet (15') in height.
         (e)   Sign panels shall be no more than nine inches (9") in width and
five feet (5') in length.
         (f)   Sign panels may include any or all of the following information:
name of business or subdivision, business or subdivision logo, no more than
three (3) colors and directional arrow.
         (g)   No pennant, flag, banner, streamer or other appurtenances may be
affixed to any kiosk.
         (h)   Placement of kiosks shall be subject to approval of the owner of
underlying land (i.e., public works director for signs within the public right
of way) and record owner for all other sites. Written authorization shall be
filed with the planning director prior to erection of any kiosk sign.
         (i)   Shall be located not less than six hundred feet (600') from an
existing kiosk site or previously approved but not erected kiosk site for the
same type of kiosk program, e.g., business subdivision.
         (j)   Shall be located not less than fifty feet (50') from an
intersection unless specifically authorized by the public works director.
   (D)   Off Site Real Estate Signs: Off site real estate signs, advertising
the location and sale of a residential subdivision on property other than the
location of the subject subdivision, may be permitted upon approval by the
planning commission subject to, at a minimum the following requirements:
      1.   Detailed Description: The applicant shall, prior to any such
approval by the planning commission, submit to the planning department a
detailed description of the location, design, materials, colors, copy, size and
height of any such off site signs.
      2.   Size; Height: The size of the sign shall be a maximum of thirty two
(32) square feet in area and fifteen feet (15') in height.
      3.   Fixtures: No pennant, flag, banner, streamer or other appurtenance
may be affixed to any such sign.
      4.   Location To Intersection: The sign shall be located not less than
fifty feet (50') from an intersection unless specifically authorized by the
public works director.
      5.   Approval Of Owner: Placement of the sign shall be subject to
approval of the owner of the underlying land (i.e., the public works director
for signs within the public right of way) and the record owner for all other
sites.
      6.   Distance To Existing Sign: The sign shall be located not less than
three hundred feet (300') from an existing off site sign previously approved
but not yet erected. (Ord. 806-15, 1-20-2015)
6-15-11: NONCONFORMING SIGNS:
   (A)   Conditions Permitting: Except as otherwise regulated by state or
federal law, any sign lawfully in use as of August 5, 2008, but made
nonconforming thereby, shall be permitted, as though it were not a
nonconforming sign, providing any of the following conditions exist:
      1.   Message: The primary message of the sign relates to the business
being conducted on the premises upon which the nonconforming sign is located.
      2.   Size, Area, Height: The size, copy area or height of the
nonconforming sign does not exceed the limits set forth in this chapter by more
than five percent (5%).
      3.   Projection: Projection of the nonconforming sign over a public right
of way does not exceed one foot (1').
      4.   Destruction: Not more than fifty percent (50%) of the nonconforming
sign is destroyed by any means.
      5.   Applicability; Ownership: The business to which the nonconforming
sign applies remains unchanged and under the same ownership and is kept in a
state of good repair, both aesthetically and structurally.
      6.   Billboards: Billboards, existing as of July 15, 2008, provided they
are kept in a state of good repair, both aesthetically and structurally.
      7.   Roof Signs: All roof signs and signs with a roof like appearance,
existing as of November 26, 1997, are permitted to remain as long as they are
safe and properly maintained.
Nonconforming signs that do not comply with any one of the above conditions are
not exempted under the provision of this subsection and will be subject to the
amortization schedule depicted in subsection (B) of this section.
   (B)   Amortization Of Nonconforming Signs: Any sign, which is nonconforming
to the requirements of this chapter, except, as provided in subsection (A) of
this section, shall either be removed or made to conform to the requirements of
this chapter at the expense of the sign owner within the period of time
prescribed herein. The period of time to comply with the provisions of this
chapter shall commence on August 5, 2008 (ordinance 768-08). Such nonconforming
signs may be abated forthwith by the city in a manner consistent with the
following schedule:
Fair Market Value On Effective Date Removal Period (Years)
Fair Market Value On Effective Date Removal Period (Years)
Less than $500.00                   2
$501.00 to $1,500.00                3
$1,501.00 to $3,000.00              4
$3,001.00 to $4,500.00              5
$4,501.00 to $6,000.00              6
$6,001.00 to $7,500.00              7
$7,501.00 to $9,000.00              8
$9,001.00 to $10,000.00             9
$10,001.00 to $12,500.00            10
$12,501.00 to $15,000.00            11
$15,001.00 and over                 12
 
   (C)   Repair Of Nonconforming Signs: Alterations or modifications to any
nonconforming signs are prohibited, except for structural repair resulting in
the same size or shape of the original sign. This provision is not intended to
prevent any nonconforming sign to be altered in such a manner that it becomes a
legal, conforming sign.
   (D)   Removal And Abatement Of Nonconforming Signs: The city may cause
written notice, ordering the removal of nonconforming signs or displays, or for
their compliance in accordance with the provision of this chapter.
      1.   Notice: Such notice shall be delivered either in the manner required
by law for service of a summons or by first class certified mail, postage
prepaid, upon the owner of the property upon which the nonconforming sign to be
abated is located, as shown on the latest equalized assessment rolls on file in
the office of the county assessor of Kern County, or to any other parties of
interest as may be known to the city.
      2.   Time Limit For Removal: Such nonconforming signs shall be removed or
altered in conformance with the provisions of this chapter within ninety (90)
days of receipt of such notice. (Ord. 806-15, 1-20-2015)
6-15-12: VIOLATIONS:
   (A)   Compliance: Except as otherwise specifically provided in this chapter,
any person violating any provisions or failing to comply with any of the
mandated requirements of this chapter is guilty of an infraction. The general
penalty for such infraction shall be as set forth in section
6-1-5 of this title.
   (B)   Abatement: In addition to the penalties provided in this title, any
condition caused or permitted to exist in violation of any of the provisions of
this chapter shall constitute a public nuisance and may be abated by the city
as such. Each day such condition continues shall be regarded as a new and
separate offense.
   (C)   Cumulative Remedies: All remedies herein are stated to be cumulative
and nonexclusive.
   (D)   Removal: Any sign not in compliance with subsection
6-15-2(I)12 of this chapter that is placed in a public right of way shall be
removed by the city, public utility company or any other public agency in whose
right of way signs, temporary or permanent, are placed. Signs removed by the
city may be claimed at the city public works department following a period of
thirty (30) days from the date of said sign removal. (Ord. 806-15, 1-20-2015)
CHAPTER 16
URBAN GROWTH BOUNDARY
SECTION:
6-16-1: Purpose And Findings
6-16-2: General Plan Land Use Map; Changes In Boundary
6-16-3: Exemptions
6-16-4: Severability
6-16-1: PURPOSE AND FINDINGS:
   (A)   Purpose: The purpose of this chapter is to create the city of Taft
urban growth boundary (Taft UGB). The Taft UGB has the following objectives:
      1.   To encourage efficient growth patterns, discourage sprawl
development and premature conversion of agricultural lands and open space to
urban use and protect the city's quality of life by concentrating future
development within the adopted urban growth boundary;
      2.   To promote on lands outside the Taft UGB ongoing agricultural, oil
and gas, and other natural resource and open space uses such as preservation of
natural resources, and protection of environmentally sensitive habitats, public
and private outdoor recreation, uses that foster public health and safety, and
productive investment for agricultural and oil and gas enterprises;
      3.   To manage the city's growth in a manner that fosters and protects
the character of the city while encouraging appropriate economic development in
accordance with the city's unique local conditions and general plan;
      4.   To allow the city to continue to meet its obligation to provide its
fair share of regional housing needs for all economic segments of the
population by directing the development of housing into areas where services
and infrastructure are more efficiently available; and
      5.   To promote stability in long term planning for the city by
establishing a cornerstone policy within the general plan designating the
geographic limits of long term urban development and allowing sufficient
flexibility within those limits to respond to the city's changing needs over
time.
   (B)   Findings:
      1.   The protection of existing agricultural, oil and gas, open space,
and other lands surrounding the city is of critical importance to present and
future residents of the city.
      2.   Continued urban encroachment into agricultural, oil and gas, or open
space areas may impair agriculture and oil and gas land uses and threaten the
public health, safety and welfare by causing increased traffic congestion, and
associated air pollution. Such urban encroachment would require both the
unnecessary, expensive extension of public services and facilities and
inevitable conflicts between urban, agricultural, oil and gas, and open space
uses.
      3.   The unique character of the city and quality of life of city
residents depend on the protection of a substantial amount of open space,
rural, agricultural, and oil and gas land uses outside of the city's urban
area. The protection of such lands not only ensures the continued viability of
agriculture and oil and gas operations, but also protects the limited available
water supply to surrounding communities and contributes to the protection of
wildlife, environmentally sensitive areas, and irreplaceable natural resources.
      4.   This measure ensures that the important goals and policies of the
2010 general plan are inviolable against transitory and short term decisions
and that agricultural, oil and gas, and open space lands are not prematurely or
unnecessarily converted to nonagricultural or nonopen space uses without
adequate public debate and a vote of the people. Accordingly, the city shall
restrict the provision of urban services, or creation of urban uses, other than
in certain circumstances and according to specific procedures set forth in this
measure, within the territory of the Taft UGB as set forth and depicted as
figure 1 on file in the city. (Ord. 817-16, 6-21-2016)
6-16-2: GENERAL PLAN LAND USE MAP; CHANGES IN BOUNDARY:
This ordinance hereby amends the Taft general plan by adding or amending the
following in chapter 3.0 of the land use element of the 2010 general plan:
   CITY OF TAFT URBAN GROWTH BOUNDARY
The city of Taft (city) has adopted a UGB line denominated the city of Taft UGB
(Taft UGB), as set forth and depicted in figure 1. Its purpose, principles,
implementation procedures, and methodologies for amendment are set forth in
this general plan amendment.
1.Purpose
a.The purpose of this amendment is to ensure that the preservation of
agricultural production, oil and gas development, open space, and protection of
environmentally sensitive habitat are inviolable against transitory and short-
term decisions and that agricultural, oil and gas, and open space lands are not
prematurely or unnecessarily converted to other non-agricultural or non-open
space uses without public debate at a public hearing or a vote of the people.
b.Limiting urban sprawl through the use of an UGB enhances the sense of
community, allows for development unique to the city of Taft, and promotes the
efficient use of the city's infrastructure and limits public funding of
infrastructure and road repair.
2.Principles
a.Continued urban encroachment into agricultural, oil and gas, and open space
areas negatively impacts sensitive environmental areas, intrudes on open space
irrevocably changing its utility, diminishes the quality of life, and threatens
the public health, safety and welfare by causing increased traffic congestion,
associated air pollution, and causing potentially serious water problems, such
as pollution, depletion, and sedimentation of available water resources not
only for the city of Taft but for its jurisdictional neighbors. Such urban
encroachment may eventually result in both the unnecessary, expensive extension
of public services and facilities and inevitable conflicts between urban and
agricultural, oil and gas, and open space uses.
b.The unique character of the city, and quality of life of city residents,
depends on the protection of a substantial amount of agricultural, oil and gas,
and open space lands. The protection of such lands through the implementation
of this measure not only ensures the continued viability of agriculture and oil
and gas operations, but also protects the available water supply and
contributes to flood control and the protection of wildlife, environmentally
sensitive areas, and irreplaceable natural resources.
3.Implementation
a.The city hereby establishes the Taft urban growth boundary (Taft UGB), as set
forth and depicted in figure 1, which shall be separately set forth and
depicted in figure 3.0 land use map.
b. The city shall restrict urban services (except temporary mutual assistance
with other jurisdictions) and urbanized uses of land to within the Taft UGB,
except as provided herein and except for the purpose of completing roadways
designated in the circulation element of the Taft general plan as of January 1,
2015. Other than the exceptions provided for herein, upon the effective date of
this 2010 general plan amendment, the city and its departments, boards,
commissions, officers and employees shall not grant, or by inaction allow to be
approved by operation of law, any general plan amendment, rezoning, specific
plan, subdivision map, conditional use permit, building permit or any other
ministerial or discretionary entitlement, which is inconsistent with the
purposes of this general plan amendment, unless in accordance with the
amendment procedures of section 4, below, of this general plan amendment.
c."Urbanized uses of land" shall mean any development that would require the
establishment of new community sewer and/or water systems or the significant
expansion of existing community sewer and/or water systems; or, would result in
the creation of residential densities greater than one primary residential unit
per 10 acres in area; or, would result in the establishment of commercial or
industrial uses which do not involve the cultivation, harvesting, or assembly
of agricultural products or that are not related to the production of oil and
gas or other mineral resources.
d.The Taft UGB may not be amended, altered, revoked or otherwise changed except
by vote of the people or by the city council pursuant to the procedures set
forth in section 4 of this general plan amendment.
4.Amendment Procedures
a.The foregoing purposes, principles and implementation provisions of this
general plan amendment, and the Taft UGB may be amended only pursuant to one of
the following methods:
1)The city council may, by a majority vote, amend the Taft UGB described herein
for non-residential uses if it deems it to be in the public interest,
consistent with the intent of this ordinance, provided that the amended
boundary is adjacent to the Taft UGB established by this general plan. The
result of the action would be a negative or neutral impact on the amount of
land within the UGB. Such amendment may be adopted only if the city council
makes the following finding:
(i)The land subject to the proposed Taft UGB boundary amendment is immediately
adjacent to existing compatibly developed areas and the applicant for inclusion
of land within the UGB has provided to the city evidence that the fire
department, police department, department of public works, and the local water
agency with jurisdiction over such land have adequate capacity to accommodate
the proposed development and provide it with adequate public services.
2)The city council, following at least one noticed public hearing for
presentations by an applicant and the public, and after compliance with CEQA,
may amend, by majority vote, the Taft UGB described herein to implement the
housing element of the general plan to achieve compliance with the applicable
regional housing needs assessment pursuant to Government Code section 65580 et
seq. The city council may amend the Taft UGB as described herein in order to
accommodate lands to be designated for residential uses, provided that no more
land may be brought within the UGB as required for compliance with state law
for this purpose. Such amendment may be adopted only if the city council makes
each of the following findings:
(i)The land is immediately adjacent to existing compatibly developed areas and
the applicant for the inclusion of land within the Taft UGB has provided to the
city evidence that the fire department, police department, department of public
works, applicable water and sewer districts, and the school district with
jurisdiction over such land have adequate capacity to accommodate the proposed
development and provide it with adequate public services; and
(ii)The proposed development will address the highest priority need identified
in the analysis, of the housing element, by which the city has determined it is
not in compliance with state law, i.e., low and very low income housing; and
(iii)There is no existing residentially designated land of comparable size and
accessibility available within the Taft UGB to accommodate the proposed
development; and
(iv)It is not reasonably feasible to accommodate the proposed development by
re-designating lands within the Taft UGB.
3)The city council following at least one noticed public hearing for
presentations by an applicant and the public, and after compliance with CEQA,
may amend, by majority vote, the Taft UGB described herein, based on
substantial evidence in the record, if the city council makes each of the
following findings:
(i)Application of the provisions of subsections 1) or 2) of these amendment
procedures are unworkable and failure to amend the Taft UGB would constitute an
unconstitutional taking of a landowner's property for which compensation would
be required or would deprive the landowner of a vested right; and
(ii)The amendment and associated land use designations will allow additional
land uses only to the minimum extent necessary to avoid such unconstitutional
taking of the landowner's property or to give effect to the vested right.
4)The city council following at least one noticed public hearing for
presentations by an applicant and the public, and after compliance with CEQA,
may place any amendment to the Taft UGB or the provisions of this ordinance
concerning any urbanized uses of land not subject to subsections 1), 2), or 3)
on the ballot pursuant to the mechanisms provided by state law.
(Ord. 817-16, 6-21-2016)
6-16-3: EXEMPTIONS:
The provisions of this chapter do not apply to any roadways designated in the
circulation element of the Taft general plan as of January 1, 2015, nor to any
development project that has obtained as of the effective date hereof a vested
right pursuant to state or local law. (Ord. 817-16, 6-21-2016)
6-16-4: SEVERABILITY:
This chapter shall be interpreted so as to be consistent with all federal and
state laws, rules, and regulations. If any section, subsection, sentence,
clause, phrase, part, or portion of this chapter is held to be invalid or
unconstitutional by a final judgment of a court of competent jurisdiction, such
decision shall not affect the validity of the remaining portions of this
chapter. If any provision of this chapter is declared invalid as applied to any
person or circumstance, such invalidity shall not affect any application of
this chapter that can be given effect without the invalid application. This
chapter shall be broadly construed in order to achieve the purposes stated in
this chapter. It is the intent of the city council that this chapter shall be
interpreted by the city and others in a manner that facilitates the confinement
of urban uses within the city's UGB thereby protecting agricultural, oil and
gas, open space, and rural lands, and preventing urban sprawl. (Ord. 817-16, 6-
21-2016)
CHAPTER 17
WATER SUPPLY REQUIREMENTS
SECTION:
6-17-1: Purpose
6-17-2: Proof Of Adequate Water Supply
6-17-1: PURPOSE:
These provisions are intended to ensure that all new developments and
residential subdivision have an assured water supply and delivery system. The
standards contained in this chapter apply throughout the city in each zone
district and, as appropriate, for all land uses and development. (Ord. 818-16,
6-21-2016)
6-17-2: PROOF OF ADEQUATE WATER SUPPLY:
   (A)   As a condition for receiving any discretionary approval under this
title, an applicant shall demonstrate:
      1.   An assured water supply and delivery system is available at the time
of project approval. For purposes of this section, an "assured water supply" is
one that has been accounted for in the most recently adopted urban water
management plan of the water agency that will furnish water for the project. If
the project was not accounted for in the agency's most recent urban water
management plan, or water would be provided to the project from a source for
which no urban water management plan has been adopted, an assured water supply
shall exist if the applicant demonstrates that the proposed water system's
total projected water supplies available during normal, single dry, and
multiple dry water years during a twenty (20) year projection will meet the
projected water demand associated with the proposed project, in addition to the
water system's existing and planned future uses, including agricultural and
manufacturing uses. The water agency providing service to the project may
provide several alternative methods of supply and/or delivery, provided that
any method of supply or delivery is capable individually of providing water to
the project; and
      2.   All required water infrastructure for the project is assured through
the use of financial guarantees to the city's satisfaction prior to the
issuance of any building permit; and
      3.   All required water infrastructure for a property is constructed and
is in place prior to the issuance for a certificate of occupancy for any
structure or building on a site; and
      4.   For any project that involves development in phases, all required
infrastructure is constructed in a manner and at times that will allow for the
orderly phasing of the project. (Ord. 818-16, 6-21-2016)
TITLE VII
(RESERVED)
TITLE VIII
POLICE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL OFFENSES
SECTION:
8-1-1: Admission Fees, Fraudulently Avoiding Payment Of
8-1-2: Concealing Knowledge
8-1-3: Disturbing The Peace
8-1-4: Drinking In Public
8-1-5: Escape, Aid In
8-1-6: False Representation
8-1-7: General Offense
8-1-8: Injurious Material On Thoroughfares, Deposits Of
8-1-9: Junk; Outside Storage Restricted
8-1-10: Loudspeakers Or Sound Trucks
8-1-11: Lug Wheels Prohibited
8-1-12: Trespassing
8-1-13: Water Flowing Upon Streets
8-1-14: Windowsills To Be Kept Clear
8-1-1: ADMISSION FEES, FRAUDULENTLY AVOIDING PAYMENT OF:
It shall be unlawful for any person fraudulently to enter, without payment of
the proper admission fee, any theater, ballroom, lecture, concert or other
place where admission fees are charged; provided, however, that nothing herein
contained shall be deemed to prohibit or restrict the free admission of police
officers engaged in the performance of police duties to any public
entertainment or amusement. (Ord. 694-02, 8-20-2002)
8-1-2: CONCEALING KNOWLEDGE:
It shall be unlawful for any person to conceal knowledge of the commission of
any offense or to conceal knowledge of any unlawful act as defined in this
code. (Ord. 694-02, 8-20-2002)
8-1-3: DISTURBING THE PEACE:
It shall be unlawful for any person, wilfully, maliciously, intentionally or
unnecessarily, to disturb the peace and quiet of another or of any neighborhood
or family or religious congregation or other assembly by loud or unusual noises
or indecent behavior or by offensive or unbecoming conduct or for any person to
threaten, quarrel, fight or provoke an assault or battery or curse or swear or
utter any obscene or vulgar or indecent language in the presence of another.
(Ord. 694-02, 8-20-2002)
8-1-4: DRINKING IN PUBLIC:
No person shall drink, otherwise consume, or be in possession of an open
container, of any intoxicating beverage, on any public street, sidewalk, alley,
highway, municipal parking lot, park or playground within the city.
A twelve (12) hour use permit to be reviewed and approved by the chief of
police may be issued to allow for consumption of alcoholic beverages at the
Civic Center park and "A" Street park. (Ord. 694-02, 8-20-2002)
8-1-5: ESCAPE, AID IN:
It shall be unlawful for any person to aid or assist any person to escape from
lawful confinement or to assist any person to escape from the custody of any
peace officer. (Ord. 694-02, 8-20-2002)
8-1-6: FALSE REPRESENTATION:
It shall be unlawful for any person to represent himself to be an officer of
the city or who shall attempt to impersonate any such officer or who shall
without authority perform any official act therein on behalf of an officer.
(Ord. 694-02, 8-20-2002)
8-1-7: GENERAL OFFENSE:
It shall be unlawful for any person to commit any act or fail to perform any
requirement which is prohibited or required by state law, insofar as such laws
are applicable to municipal government. (Ord. 694-02, 8-20-2002)
8-1-8: INJURIOUS MATERIAL ON THOROUGHFARES, DEPOSITS OF:
It shall be unlawful for any person to deposit, place or allow to remain in or
upon any public thoroughfare any material or substance injurious to person or
property. (Ord. 694-02, 8-20-2002)
8-1-9: JUNK; OUTSIDE STORAGE RESTRICTED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to store or keep outside storage of any
materials which may be classified as junk adjacent to or in close proximity to
any school, church, public park, public grounds, business building or residence
within the city. All outside storage must be contained in an enclosed
structure, consistent with the city's zoning and code requirements, which
protects the contents from the elements and conceals the contents from public
view.
"Junk" means any castoff, damaged, discarded, junked, obsolete, salvage,
scrapped, unusable, worn out or wrecked object, thing or material composed in
whole or in part of asphalt, brick, carbon, cement, plastic or other synthetic
substance, fiber, glass, metal, paper, plaster, plaster of Paris, rubber, terra
cotta, wool, cotton, cloth, canvas, organic matter or other substance, having
no substantial market value or requiring reconditioning in order to be used for
its original purpose. (Ord. 759-08, 2-5-2008)
8-1-10: LOUDSPEAKERS OR SOUND TRUCKS:
It shall be unlawful to play, operate, or use any device known as a sound
truck, loudspeaker or sound amplifier, radio or phonograph, with loudspeaker or
sound amplifier or any instrument of any kind or character which emits loud and
raucous noises and is attached to and upon any vehicle unless such person in
charge of such vehicle shall have first applied to and received permission from
the chief of police to operate any such vehicle so equipped. (Ord. 694-02, 8-
20-2002)
8-1-11: LUG WHEELS PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for tractors with wheels injurious to pavement to be
permitted upon the public thoroughfares unless the operator of such vehicle
shall first plank such streets. (Ord. 694-02, 8-20-2002)
8-1-12: TRESPASSING:
It shall be unlawful for any person to take down any fence or to let down any
bars or to open any gate in or on the property of another without the consent
of the owner, occupant or person in charge thereof. (Ord. 694-02, 8-20-2002)
8-1-13: WATER FLOWING UPON STREETS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to allow any water to flow into or upon any
public thoroughfare. (Ord. 694-02, 8-20-2002)
8-1-14: WINDOWSILLS TO BE KEPT CLEAR:
It shall be unlawful for any person to place or keep on any windowsill, porch
or other projection above the first story of any building abutting on any
sidewalk any article which might do injury by falling upon any person on the
sidewalk in front of such building, unless said article be securely fastened or
protected by screens. (Ord. 694-02, 8-20-2002)
CHAPTER 2
ANIMAL CONTROL
SECTION:
8-2-1: Purpose
8-2-2: Definitions
8-2-3: Fees
8-2-4: Rabies Vaccination
8-2-5: Rabies Certificate
8-2-6: Reports Of Animal Bites
8-2-7: Symptoms Of Rabies
8-2-8: Exposure To Animals Suspected Of Rabies
8-2-9: Licensing
8-2-10: Permits
8-2-11: License And Permit Issuance And Revocation
8-2-12: Restraint
8-2-13: Impoundment And Violation Notice
8-2-14: Animal Care
8-2-15: Limit On Number Of Dogs Kept
8-2-16: Keeping Of Wild Animals
8-2-17: Performing Animal Exhibitions
8-2-18: Animal Waste
8-2-19: Sterilization
8-2-20: Disposition Of Infirm Animals
8-2-21: Disposition Of Dead Animals
8-2-22: Disposition Of Cats And Dogs On Owner's Request
8-2-23: Disposition Of Unredeemed Animals
8-2-24: Adoption Of Unredeemed Animals
8-2-25: Enforcement
8-2-26: Penalties
8-2-27: Conflicting Ordinances
8-2-28: Severability Clause
8-2-1: PURPOSE:
The regulations set out in this chapter are designed to establish the framework
for an effective and humane animal control program, one that will benefit both
the human and animal populations of our city. It deals with the protection as
well as the control of animals. It includes regulations that will discourage
the breeding of cats and dogs and encourage spaying and neutering. It protects
animals by placing penalties on their owners instead of automatic death
sentences on the animals themselves. (Ord. 682-00, 9-5-2000)
8-2-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following terms are defined below:
ANIMAL: Every nonhuman species of animal, both domestic and wild.
ANIMAL AT LARGE: Any animal not under the restraint of a person capable of
controlling the animal and/or off the premises of the owner.
ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER: Any person designated by the state of California and/or
a municipal government, as a law enforcement officer who is qualified to
perform such duties under the laws of this state.
ANIMAL SHELTER: Any facility operated by a humane society, municipal agency or
its authorized agents, for the purpose of impounding animals under the
authority of this chapter or state law for care, confinement, return to owner,
adoption, or euthanasia.
AUCTION: Any place or facility where animals are regularly bought, sold or
traded, except for those facilities otherwise defined in this chapter. This
definition does not apply to individual sales of animals by owners.
CIRCUS: A commercial variety show featuring animal acts for public
entertainment.
COMMERCIAL ANIMAL ESTABLISHMENT: Any pet shop, grooming shop, guard dog
auction, riding school or stable, zoological park, circus, performing animal
exhibition, or boarding or breeding kennel.
GROOMING SHOP: A commercial establishment where animals are bathed, clipped,
plucked or otherwise groomed.
GUARD DOG: Any dog that will detect and warn its handler that an intruder is
present in or near an area that is being secured.
KENNEL OR CATTERY: Any premises wherein any person engages in the business of
boarding, breeding, buying, letting for hire, training for a fee or selling
dogs or cats.
OWNER: Any person, partnership, or corporation owning, keeping or harboring one
or more animals. An animal shall be deemed to be harbored if it is fed or
sheltered for fifteen (15) consecutive days or more.
PERFORMING ANIMAL EXHIBITION: Any spectacle, display, act, or event, other than
circuses, in which performing animals are used.
PET OR COMPANION ANIMAL: Any animal kept for pleasure rather than utility; an
animal of a species that has been bred and raised to live in or about the
habitation of humans and is dependent on people for food and shelter.
PET SHOP: Any person, partnership or corporation, whether operated separately
or in connection with another business enterprise (except for a licensed
kennel), that buys, sells or boards any species of animal.
PUBLIC NUISANCE ANIMAL: Any animal(s) that unreasonably annoys humans,
endangers the life or health of other animals or persons, or substantially
interferes with the rights of citizens, other than their owners, to the
enjoyment of life or property. The term "public nuisance animal" shall mean and
include, but is not limited to, any animal that:
   (A)   Is repeatedly found at large.
   (B)   Damages the property of anyone other than its owner.
   (C)   Molests or intimidates pedestrians or passersby.
   (D)   Chases vehicles.
   (E)   Excessively makes disturbing noises, including, but not limited to,
continued and repeated howling, barking, whining or other utterances causing
unreasonable annoyance, disturbance or discomfort to neighbors or others in
close proximity to the premises where the animal is kept or harbored.
   (F)   Causes fouling of the air by odor and thereby creates unreasonable
annoyance or discomfort to neighbors or others in close proximity to the
premises where the animal is kept or harbored.
   (G)   Causes unsanitary conditions in enclosures or surroundings where the
animal is kept or harbored.
   (H)   Is offensive or dangerous to the public health, safety or welfare by
virtue of the number and/or types of animals maintained.
   (I)   Attacks other domestic animals.
   (J)   Has been found by the animal control officer, after notice to its
owner and a hearing, to be a public nuisance animal by virtue of being a menace
to the public health, welfare or safety.
RESTRAINT: Any animal secured by a leash or led under the control of a
responsible person and obedient to that person's commands, or within the real
property limits of its owner, or within seventy five feet (75') of the real
property limits of the owner.
RIDING SCHOOL OR STABLE: Any place that has available for hire, boarding, and/
or riding instruction, any horse, pony, donkey, mule or burro; or any place
that regularly buys, sells or trains the above animals, including a racetrack,
trotting track or rodeo.
VETERINARY HOSPITAL: Any establishment maintained and operated by a licensed
veterinarian for surgery, diagnosis and treatment of diseases and injuries of
animals.
VICIOUS ANIMAL: Any animal that attacks, bites or injures human beings or
domesticated animals without provocation, or which, because of temperament,
conditioning, or training, has a known propensity to attack, bite or injure
human beings or domesticated animals.
WILD ANIMAL: Any living member of the animal kingdom, including those born or
raised in captivity, except the following: human beings, domestic dogs
(excluding hybrids with wolves, coyotes or jackals), domestic cats (excluding
hybrids with ocelots or margays), farm animals, rodents, any hybrid animal that
is part wild and captive bred species of common cage birds.
ZOOLOGICAL PARK: Any facility operated by a person, partnership, corporation,
or government agency, other than a pet shop or kennel, displaying or exhibiting
one or more species of nondomesticated animals. (Ord. 682-00, 9-5-2000)
8-2-3: FEES 1 :
All animal control fees shall be established by resolution of the city council.
(Ord. 682-00, 9-5-2000)
 
Notes
1 1. For statute authority see Gov.C. § 38792.
8-2-4: RABIES VACCINATION:
   (A)   All dogs shall be vaccinated with a canine anti-rabies vaccine within
ten (10) days after becoming four (4) months of age.
   (B)   All dogs shall be vaccinated at the following intervals:
 
Age Of Dog                  Vaccination Expires    License Expires
More than 4 months but less                        All licenses expire at the
than 1 year old (first      1 year from date given same time the vaccination
vaccination)                                       expires
More than 1 year                                   All licenses expire
old (no prior               3 years from date      at the same time
vaccination)                given                  the vaccination
                                                   expires
More than 1 year                                   All licenses expire
old (previously             3 years from date      at the same time
vaccinated)                 given                  the vaccination
                                                   expires
 
   (Ord. 682-00, 9-5-2000)
8-2-5: RABIES CERTIFICATE:
   (A)   Rabies vaccination shall be performed by a California state licensed
veterinarian. The veterinarian shall issue to the owner of the dog which he has
vaccinated a rabies certificate showing the date and such other information as
is required by state law, or the city. (Ord. 682-00, 9-5-2000)
8-2-6: REPORTS OF ANIMAL BITES:
The owner of any animal that bites any person, and any person who treats any
other person of an animal bite, shall report the circumstances of the animal
bite incident to the animal control officer. The animal control officer may, at
his/her discretion, place the animal under regulation or quarantine in a humane
manner for such as may be required or permitted by state law. The regulation or
quarantine may be conducted at the home of the owner of the animal or at such
other place as may be designated by the animal control officer, and the animal
will be kept securely confined while under observation. Dogs or cats that have
bitten any person and are not vaccinated for rabies shall be quarantined at the
city animal shelter and the owner shall be liable for the board and care fees.
(Ord. 682-00, 9-5-2000)
8-2-7: SYMPTOMS OF RABIES:
Whenever the owner of an animal observes or learns that the animal shows
symptoms of rabies or acts in a manner which would lead to a reasonable
suspicion that it may have rabies, the owner of the animal shall immediately
notify the animal control officer. If it appears to the animal control officer
that any animal is afflicted with rabies, he/she may apprehend and destroy the
animal forthwith and shall take such other action as deemed necessary to
prevent the spread of the disease. (Ord. 682-00, 9-5-2000)
8-2-8: EXPOSURE TO ANIMALS SUSPECTED OF RABIES:
Whenever any animal susceptible to rabies is exposed to another animal
suspected of having rabies, the owner of the animal so exposed shall, upon
learning thereof, immediately notify the animal control officer. Exposed
animals shall be treated as required by state law. When any animal is
quarantined by the animal control officer, it shall be unlawful for the owner
of the animal or any other person to violate the quarantine. Any of the
following acts shall constitute a violation of the quarantine:
   (A)   Removing the animal from the quarantine premises;
   (B)   Allowing the animal to run at large;
   (C)   Destroying the animal without animal control officer authorization;
   (D)   Failing to notify the animal control officer of the animal's death
immediately upon the occurrence thereof;
   (E)   Disobeying any of the quarantine restrictions imposed by the animal
control officer;
   (F)   Allowing the animal to come in contact with other animals or persons.
(Ord. 682-00, 9-5-2000)
8-2-9: LICENSING 1 :
   (A)   Any person owning, keeping, harboring or having custody of any dog
over four (4) months of age within this municipality must obtain a license as
herein provided.
   (B)   Written application for licenses, which shall include name and address
of applicant, description of the dog, the appropriate fee and rabies
certificate issued by a licensed veterinarian or anti-rabies clinic, shall be
made to the licensing authority.
   (C)   If not revoked, licenses for the keeping of dogs shall be for a period
of one or three (3) years.
   (D)   Application for a license must be made within thirty (30) days after
obtaining a dog over four (4) months of age; this requirement will not apply to
a nonresident keeping a dog or cat within the municipality for not longer than
thirty (30) days; provided, the dog has been vaccinated consistent with city
requirements and the owner or person in charge presents proof of such
vaccination upon demand, and further provided that the dog is confined on the
property of the person in charge of it while temporarily in the city.
   (E)   License fees shall not be required for certified seeing eye dogs,
hearing dogs, governmental police dogs or other certified dogs that are trained
to assist the physically handicapped.
   (F)   Upon acceptance of the license application and fee, the licensing
authority shall issue a durable tag stamped with an identifying number. Tags
shall be designed so that they may be conveniently fastened or riveted to the
animal's collar or harness.
   (G)   Dogs must wear identification tags or collars at all times when off
the premises of the owners.
   (H)   The licensing authority shall maintain a record of the identifying
numbers of all tags issued and shall make this record available to the public
at all times.
   (I)   The licensing period shall begin with the date of rabies vaccination
and shall run for one year or three (3) years. A license application must be
made within thirty (30) days of the dog receiving the rabies vaccination.
   (J)   Persons who fail to obtain a license as required within the time
period specified in this section will be subjected to a fine of ten dollars
($10.00).
   (K)   A license shall be issued after payment of fee for neutered and
unneutered dogs in an amount as established by resolution of the city council.
Each license fee shall be paid annually or every three (3) years (according to
the type of license) to the office designated by resolution.
   (L)   A duplicate license may be obtained upon payment of a replacement fee
which will be set by resolution of the city council.
   (M)   No person may use any license for any animal other than the animal for
which it was issued. (Ord. 682-00, 9-5-2000)
 
Notes
1 1. For statute authority see Food & Agric.C. §30501 et seq.
8-2-10: PERMITS:
   (A)   No person, partnership or corporation shall operate a commercial
animal establishment or animal shelter without first obtaining a permit in
compliance with this section.
   (B)   The licensing authority shall promulgate regulations for the issuance
of permits and shall include requirements for humane care of all animals and
for compliance with the provisions of this chapter and other applicable laws.
The licensing authority may amend such regulations, from time to time, as
deemed desirable for public health and welfare and for the protection of
animals.
   (C)   When a permit applicant has shown that he is willing and able to
comply with the regulations promulgated by the licensing authority, a permit
shall be issued upon payment of the applicable fee.
   (D)   The permit period shall begin with the calendar year and shall run for
one year. Renewal applications for permits shall be made thirty (30) days prior
to and up to sixty (60) days after the start of the year. Application for a
permit to establish a new commercial animal establishment under the provisions
of this chapter may be made at any time.
   (E)   No person shall train any dog to be used as a guard or sentry dog
without possessing a valid license. This section shall not apply to the city
government or any of its agencies. The application for a guard or sentry dog
training license shall state the name and address of the owner and trainer,
location of the facility, and the maximum number of dogs to be housed at the
training facility.
   (F)   Annual permits shall be issued upon payment of the applicable fee as
established by resolution of the city council.
   (G)   Every facility regulated by this chapter shall be considered a
separate enterprise requiring an individual permit.
   (H)   Persons operating kennels for the breeding of dogs may elect to
license such animals individually.
   (I)   No fee may be required of any veterinary hospital, animal shelter or
government operated zoological park.
   (J)   Failure to obtain a permit before opening any facility covered in this
section shall result in a fine of two hundred dollars ($200.00).
   (K)   Any person who has a change in the category under which a permit was
issued shall be subject to reclassification and readjustment of the permit fee.
(Ord. 682-00, 9-5-2000)
8-2-11: LICENSE AND PERMIT ISSUANCE AND REVOCATION:
   (A)   After an application is filed, the licensing authority shall inspect
the facility prior to issuing the permit. The licensing authority may revoke
any permit or license if the person holding the permit or license refuses or
fails to comply with this chapter, the regulations promulgated by the licensing
authority, or any law governing the protection and keeping of animals.
   (B)   Any person whose permit or license is revoked shall, within ten (10)
days thereafter, humanely dispose of all animals owned, kept or harbored. No
part of the permit or license fee shall be refunded.
   (C)   It shall be a condition of the issuance of any permit or license that
the licensing authority shall be permitted to inspect all animals and the
premises where animals are kept at any time and shall, if permission for such
inspection is refused, revoke the permit or license of the refusing owner.
   (D)   If the applicant has withheld or falsified any information on the
application, the licensing authority shall refuse to issue a permit or license.
   (E)   No person who has been convicted of cruelty to animals shall be issued
a permit or license to operate a commercial animal establishment.
   (F)   Any person having been denied a license or permit may not reapply for
a period of thirty (30) days. Each reapplication shall be accompanied by a ten
dollar ($10.00) fee. (Ord. 682-00, 9-5-2000)
8-2-12: RESTRAINT:
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the owner of any dog to allow it to be more
than seventy five feet (75') off his property unless it is restrained. In
particular, dogs should be restrained by a leash not longer than six feet (6')
in length and in the immediate control of the handler.
   (B)   No owner shall fail to exercise proper care and control of his animals
to prevent them from becoming a public nuisance as defined in section
8-2-2 of this chapter.
   (C)   Every female dog or cat in heat shall be confined in a building or
secure enclosure in such a manner that such female dog or cat cannot come into
contact with another animal except for planned breeding. (Ord. 682-00, 9-5-
2000)
8-2-13: IMPOUNDMENT AND VIOLATION NOTICE:
   (A)   Unrestrained dogs, unlicensed dogs, and nuisance animals shall be
taken by the animal control officer or his designee, and impounded in an animal
shelter and there confined in a humane manner.
   (B)   Impounded dogs and cats shall be kept for not fewer than five (5)
working days.
   (C)   If, by license tag or other means, the owner of an impounded animal
can be identified, the animal control officer shall, within twenty four (24)
hours of impoundment, notify the owner by telephone or certified mail.
   (D)   An owner reclaiming an impounded animal shall pay all applicable fees
as established by resolution of the city council. Subsequent impounds occurring
within twelve (12) months are charged double.
   (E)   Any animal not reclaimed by its owner within five (5) working days
shall become the property of the local government authority and shall be placed
for adoption in a suitable home or humanely euthanized.
   (F)   In addition to, or in lieu of, impounding an animal found at large,
the animal control officer or his designee may issue to the known owner of such
animal a notice of violation.
   (G)   The owner of an impounded animal may also be proceeded against for
violation of this chapter.
   (H)   The animal control officer shall keep complete and accurate records of
the care, feeding, veterinary treatment and disposition of all animals
impounded at the shelter.
   (I)   Any person who at any time finds any animal at large in violation of
any of the provisions of this section may take up, confine and hold the animal;
provided, that such person shall within four (4) hours thereafter notify the
animal control officer of the fact that he has the animal in his possession and
shall surrender possession of the animal upon demand to the owner or the animal
control officer. If the animal is taken at a time when the animal shelter is
not open for business, the person confining the animal shall within four (4)
hours after the animal shelter reopens, notify the animal control officer that
he has the animal in his possession and shall surrender the animal to the
animal control officer upon demand. (Ord. 682-00, 9-5-2000)
8-2-14: ANIMAL CARE:
Every person within the city who owns any animal or who owns, conducts, manages
or operates any facility for which a permit is issued pursuant to this chapter
shall comply with each of the following conditions:
   (A)   Housing facilities for animals shall be structurally sound and shall
be maintained in good repair, to protect the animals from injury, to contain
the animals, and to restrict the entrance of other animals.
   (B)   No owner shall fail to provide his animals with sufficient wholesome
and nutritious food, water in sufficient quantities, proper air, shelter space
and protection from the weather, veterinary care when needed to prevent
suffering, and humane care and treatment.
   (C)   All animals and animal buildings or enclosures shall be maintained in
a clean and sanitary condition.
   (D)   All animals shall be so maintained as to eliminate excessive nighttime
noise.
   (E)   Every reasonable precaution shall be used to ensure that animals are
not teased, abused, mistreated, annoyed, tormented or in any manner made to
suffer by any person or means.
   (F)   No condition shall be maintained or permitted that is or could be
injurious to the animal.
   (G)   Animal buildings and enclosures shall be so constructed and maintained
as to prevent escape of animals. All reasonable precautions shall be taken to
protect the public from the animals and the animals from the public.
   (H)   No owner of an animal shall abandon such animal.
   (I)   No person shall give away any live animal, fish, reptile or bird as a
prize for, or as an inducement to enter, any contest, game or other
competition, as an inducement to enter a place of amusement or as an incentive
to enter into any business agreement whereby the offer was for the purpose of
attracting trade.
   (J)   Any person who, as the operator of a motor vehicle, strikes a domestic
animal shall stop at once and render such assistance as may be possible and
shall immediately report such injury or death to the animal's owner; in the
event the owner cannot be ascertained and located, such operator shall at once
report the accident to the appropriate law enforcement agency or to the local
humane society.
   (K)   No person shall expose any known poisonous substance, whether mixed
with food or not, so that the same shall be liable to be eaten by any animal.
(Ord. 682-00, 9-5-2000)
8-2-15: LIMIT ON NUMBER OF DOGS KEPT:
It is unlawful to keep, harbor or maintain at any residence, other than a
licensed veterinary facility, more than four (4) dogs subject to license under
this chapter. (Ord. 682-00, 9-5-2000)
8-2-16: KEEPING OF WILD ANIMALS:
   (A)   No person shall own, possess or have custody on his premises any wild
or vicious animal for display, training or exhibition purposes, whether
gratuitously or for a fee. This section shall not be construed to apply to
AAZPA accredited facilities.
   (B)   No person shall keep or maintain any wild, exotic or carnivorous
undomesticated animal unless properly permitted by the California Department of
Fish and Game.
   (C)   The licensing authority shall have the power to release or order the
release of any infant wild animal under temporary permit that is deemed capable
of survival. (Ord. 682-00, 9-5-2000)
8-2-17: PERFORMING ANIMAL EXHIBITIONS:
   (A)   No person may sponsor, promote, train a wild animal to participate in,
contribute to the involvement of a wild animal in, or attend as a spectator any
activity or event in which any wild animal engages in unnatural behavior, is
wrestled, fought, mentally or physically harassed, displayed in such a way that
the animal is abused or stressed mentally or physically or is induced or
encouraged to perform through the use of chemical, mechanical, electrical or
manual devices in a manner that will cause or is likely to cause physical
injury or suffering. This prohibition applies to events and activities taking
place in either public or private facilities or property, and applies
regardless of the purpose of the event or activities and irrespective of
whether or not a fee is charged to spectators.
   (B)   All equipment used on a performing animal shall fit properly and be in
good working condition. (Ord. 682-00, 9-5-2000)
8-2-18: ANIMAL WASTE:
The owner of every animal shall be responsible for the immediate removal of any
excreta deposited by his animal(s) on public walks, recreation areas or private
property other than his own. Animal owners are responsible for the removal of
excreta deposited by their animal(s) on their own private property within
twenty four (24) hours. (Ord. 682-00, 9-5-2000)
8-2-19: STERILIZATION:
No unclaimed dog or cat shall be released for adoption without being sterilized
or without written agreement from the adopter guaranteeing that such animal
will be sterilized within thirty (30) days for adults and specified date in the
contracts for pups and kittens. A deposit fee for cats and dogs will be
established by resolution of the city council and must be paid at the time of
adoption. The deposit is fully refundable after presentation of documented
proof of sterilization of the adopted animal. (Ord. 682-00, 9-5-2000)
8-2-20: DISPOSITION OF INFIRM ANIMALS:
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep, abandon or turn loose
without care any animal suffering from disease, injury, old age or other
infirmity. Any such animal taken up by the animal control officer may be
euthanized.
   (B)   This section shall not apply to persons keeping diseased or old pets
which are under medical care from a veterinarian. (Ord. 682-00, 9-5-2000)
8-2-21: DISPOSITION OF DEAD ANIMALS:
   (A)   The owner of any animal that dies shall bury or otherwise dispose of
such animal in a manner so as not to create a nuisance or health hazard.
Whenever he discovers a dead animal within the incorporated areas of the city
which has not been properly disposed, the animal control officer shall order
its owner to dispose of it properly.
   (B)   If his order is not promptly obeyed, the animal control officer is
authorized to dispose of, or to employ some person to dispose of, the dead
animal and shall charge against and collect from the owner a disposal fee as
set by resolution of the city council.
   (C)   In the event the owner of the animal is unknown, the animal control
officer shall remove or employ some other person to remove and dispose of the
dead animal, the costs of which shall be a charge against the city. (Ord. 682-
00, 9-5-2000)
8-2-22: DISPOSITION OF CATS AND DOGS ON OWNER'S REQUEST:
The animal control officer may, upon the request of the owner of any cat or dog
which is maintained in the city at the time of the request, take up, humanely
destroy and dispose of the same, for which service he shall charge and collect
a fee as set by resolution of the city council. (Ord. 682-00, 9-5-2000)
8-2-23: DISPOSITION OF UNREDEEMED ANIMALS:
   (A)   All impounded and unredeemed live animals other than bovines, horses,
mules, burros and animals with identification markings or tags may be adopted,
released or destroyed by the animal control officer five (5) days after being
impounded.
   (B)   The animal control officer may dispose of dogs and cats with license
or identification tags/tattoos five (5) days after service of written notice to
the person whose name appears on the identification tag or license record.
Written notice may be given by hand delivery, by posting on the premises of
such person at his last known address or by mailing a copy of such notice by
registered or certified mail.
   (C)   The animal control officer shall make an attempt to contact the person
listed on the identification tag or license record by telephone within twenty
four (24) hours of a weekday impounding or on the weekday following a weekend
impounding. (Ord. 682-00, 9-5-2000)
8-2-24: ADOPTION OF UNREDEEMED ANIMALS:
   (A)   Any impounded and unredeemed live animal held the required time and
not suffering from any infectious or communicable disease may be adopted upon
the person meeting the following conditions:
      1.   Dogs may be adopted upon the payment of a placement fee, a rabies
vaccination fee, a license fee, and a spay or neuter fee.
      2.   Cats may be adopted upon payment of a placement fee and compliance
with the provisions of state law dealing with the spaying or neutering of cats.
      3.   All other animals may be adopted upon payment of a placement fee.
   (B)   The animal control officer shall not knowingly make a gift or adopt
out any dog or cat to any person or institution intending to use the animal for
experimental or consumption purposes.
   (C)   The animal control officer shall not adopt out any dog that meets the
definition of a vicious dog. (Ord. 682-00, 9-5-2000)
8-2-25: ENFORCEMENT:
   (A)   The civil and criminal provisions of this chapter shall be enforced by
those persons or agencies designated by municipal authority.
   (B)   No person shall obstruct or interfere with the animal control officer
in the performance of his duties under this chapter or aid and abet others in
so doing.
   (C)   No person shall remove or attempt to remove any animal taken into
custody by the animal control officer without his authorization.
   (D)   No person shall cause or aid the escape of any animal sought for
custody by the animal control officer or aid or abet others in so doing. (Ord.
682-00, 9-5-2000)
8-2-26: PENALTIES:
Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of an
infraction and shall be punished by a fine of not less than fifty dollars
($50.00) and not more than two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00). If a violation
continues, each day's violation shall be deemed a separate violation. If any
person is found guilty by a court of violating this chapter, his permit to own,
keep, harbor or have custody of animals shall be deemed automatically revoked
and no new permit may be issued. (Ord. 694-02, 8-20-2002)
8-2-27: CONFLICTING ORDINANCES:
All other ordinances of the city that are in conflict with this chapter are
hereby repealed to the extent of such conflict. (Ord. 682-00, 9-5-2000)
8-2-28: SEVERABILITY CLAUSE:
If any part of this chapter shall be held invalid, such part shall be deemed
severable and the invalidity thereof shall not affect the remaining parts of
this chapter. (Ord. 682-00, 9-5-2000)
CHAPTER 2.5
VICIOUS DOGS
SECTION:
8-2.5-1: Definition
8-2.5-2: Vicious Dogs
8-2.5-3: Impoundment Of Dogs Involved In Biting/Attacking Incidents
8-2.5-4: Vicious Dog Hearing
8-2.5-5: Penalty
8-2.5-6: Severability Clause
8-2.5-1: DEFINITION:
VICIOUS DOG: Any dog with a propensity, tendency, or disposition to attack
unprovoked, to cause injury or to otherwise endanger the safety of humans or
domestic animals; any dog known to have bitten any person or domestic animal
without provocation; any dog which, because of temperament, conditioning, or
training, has a known propensity to attack, bite or injure human beings or
domestic animals; any dog which endangers the health and safety of any person
or domestic animal. (Ord. 693-02, 6-4-2002)
8-2.5-2: VICIOUS DOGS:
   (A)   No person shall own, harbor, care for, or control a vicious dog within
the city until such dog has been registered at the Taft police department on
such form(s) as prescribed by the chief of police. Said form shall require the
following information: name, address, and telephone number of the dog's owner;
the address where said dog is harbored, if different from owner's address;
dog's sex, color, and other distinguishing physical characteristics of the dog,
city license tag number, as well as proof of current rabies vaccination, and
proof of spay/neuter of the animal. Persons owning, harboring, caring for or
controlling a vicious dog upon the effective date hereof, shall register such
dog as required in this section within sixty (60) days of the effective date
hereof. There shall be no fee for such registration.
   (B)   No person owning or harboring or having the care or custody of a
vicious dog shall permit such dog to go unconfined on the premises of such
person. A vicious dog is "unconfined" as the term is used in this section if
such dog is not securely confined indoors or confined in a securely enclosed
and locked pen or a dog run area upon the premises of such person. Such pen or
dog run area must have sides a maximum of six feet (6') in height with a secure
top, and be located within a fenced yard. If the pen or structure has no bottom
secured to the sides, the sides must be imbedded into the ground no less than
one foot (1').
   (C)   No person owning or harboring or having the care of a vicious dog
shall permit such dog to go beyond the premises of such person unless such dog
is securely muzzled and restrained with a chain having a minimum tensile
strength of three hundred (300) pounds and not exceeding three feet (3') in
length.
   (D)   No person shall own or train, torment, badger, bait or use any dog for
the purpose of causing or encouraging such dog to unprovoked attacks upon
humans or domestic animals.
   (E)   No person shall possess with intent to sell, or offer for sale, breed,
or buy or attempt to buy within the city any vicious dog.
   (F)   In the event that a law enforcement officer or animal control officer
of the city has probable cause to believe that a vicious dog is being harbored
or cared for in violation of any section of this chapter, said officer shall
have the authority summarily and immediately to impound the dog pending the
completion of a hearing for the purpose of determining whether the dog is a
vicious animal as set forth in section 8-2.5-4 of this chapter. (Ord. 693-02,
6-4-2002)
8-2.5-3: IMPOUNDMENT OF DOGS INVOLVED IN BITING/ATTACKING INCIDENTS:
   (A)   A law enforcement officer or animal control officer may summarily and
immediately seize and impound any dog which is alleged to have bitten or
attacked a human being or domestic animal in violation of this chapter, pending
the completion of a hearing for the purpose of determining whether the dog is a
vicious animal as set forth in section 8-2.5-4 of this chapter.
   (B)   Any animal seized and impounded pursuant to this chapter shall be
boarded and housed in an animal shelter or other place which the law
enforcement officer or animal control officer deems equally secure until such
time as the hearing is completed.
   (C)   Whenever it is necessary to make an inspection to enforce any of the
provisions of this chapter, such official may enter private property at all
reasonable times to inspect same or to perform any duty imposed by this
chapter, provided that if such property is occupied, such official shall first
present proper credentials and demand entry. If entry is refused, or if the
owner or other person having control of such property is not present to permit
entry, such official shall have recourse to every remedy provided by law to
secure entry at a later time. (Ord. 693-02, 6-4-2002)
8-2.5-4: VICIOUS DOG HEARING:
   (A)   The chief of police shall appoint a hearing officer who shall conduct
all hearings for the purpose of determining whether a dog is vicious within the
provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   The hearing officer shall provide written notice of the hearing date,
time and location at least five (5) days prior to the hearing.
   (C)   The hearing officer shall provide written notice to the following
persons: the person(s) who owns, harbors, cares for or controls the dog, the
person identified as the owner on any registration form filed with the Taft
police department, any person(s) who allegedly has been bitten or attacked by
the dog, the parent(s) or guardian(s) of any minor(s) who allegedly has been
bitten or is the victim of such an attack, and the owner(s) of any domestic
animal(s) which has allegedly been bitten or attacked by the dog.
   (D)   At any hearing conducted for the purpose of determining whether a dog
is vicious, the owner and any interested person shall be given an opportunity
to present any evidence relevant to the issue.
   (E)   Any dog declared to be a vicious dog may, at the discretion of the
hearing officer, be humanely destroyed. Such humane destruction shall occur no
earlier than ten (10) days following written notice to the owner of such dog of
the intention to destroy the dog.
   (F)   After the hearing, in the event the hearing officer elects not to
destroy the dog, he/she may issue certain rules and regulations pertaining to
the keeping and containing of such animal. If such dog is thereafter determined
to be in violation of any rule or regulation made pursuant to this section,
such dog may be impounded and thereafter subject to summary destruction without
additional hearing no earlier than ten (10) days following notice given to the
owner of intention to destroy. (Ord. 693-02, 6-4-2002)
8-2.5-5: PENALTY:
   (A)   Any person who owns, harbors, cares for, or controls a vicious dog in
violation of this chapter and who fails to surrender the animal upon demand by
the officer shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and subject to a fine of not less
than five hundred dollars ($500.00) and not more than one thousand dollars
($1,000.00), or by imprisonment in the county jail for a period of not more
than six (6) months, or by both fine and imprisonment, for each violation.
   (B)   Any person who owns, controls, harbors or who has custody or control
of a vicious dog in violation of this chapter, or any person who knowingly
permits such animal to violate any rule or regulation set forth pursuant to
this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and subject to a fine of not less
than five hundred dollars ($500.00) and not more than one thousand dollars
($1,000.00), or by imprisonment in the county jail for a period of not more
than six (6) months, or by both fine and imprisonment, for each violation.
(Ord. 694-02, 8-20-2002)
   (C)   Any person who owns, harbors, cares for, or controls a vicious dog
which is impounded pursuant to this chapter shall pay all expenses for
boarding, veterinary expenses necessitated by the seizure of any vicious dog
for the protection of the public, and such other expenses as may be required
for the destruction of such animal.
   (D)   Any vicious dog which attacks a human or domestic animal may be
ordered destroyed when, in a hearing officer's judgment, such vicious dog
represents a continuing threat of serious harm to humans or domestic animals.
   (E)   The provisions of this section shall be in addition to any other
procedures, penalties and/or remedies provided in this chapter or otherwise
available by law. (Ord. 693-02, 6-4-2002)
8-2.5-6: SEVERABILITY CLAUSE:
   (A)   If any part of this chapter shall be held invalid, such part shall be
deemed severable and the invalidity thereof shall not affect the remaining
parts of this chapter. (Ord. 693-02, 6-4-2002)
CHAPTER 3
CURFEW
SECTION:
8-3-1: Restrictions; Penalty
8-3-2: Parent Responsible
8-3-3: Severability
8-3-1: RESTRICTIONS; PENALTY:
   (A)   General Restrictions: It shall be unlawful for any minor under the age
of eighteen (18) years to loiter, idle, wander, stroll, or be in or upon the
public streets, avenues, highways, roads, alleys, sidewalks, parks,
playgrounds, or other public grounds, public places, public buildings, places
of amusement or eating places, parking lots or vacant lots in the city between
the hours of ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. on any day and five o'clock (5:00) A.M.
of the immediately following day. This section does not apply when:
      1.   The minor is accompanied by his or her parent, legal guardian or
other adult person having the legal care or custody of the minor, or by his or
her spouse eighteen (18) years of age or older;
      2.   The minor is on an errand directed by his or her parent or legal
guardian or other adult person having the legal care or custody of the minor,
or by his or her spouse eighteen (18) years of age or older;
      3.   The minor is returning directly home from a public meeting, or a
place of public entertainment, such as a movie, play, sporting event or school
activity; or
      4.   The presence of such minor in said place or places is connected with
or required with respect to a business, trade, profession or occupation in
which the minor is lawfully engaged.
   (B)   During School Hours: It is unlawful for any minor under the age of
eighteen (18) years, who is subject to compulsory education or to compulsory
continuation education, to loiter, idle, wander, stroll or be in or upon the
public streets, avenues, highways, roads, alleys, sidewalks, parks,
playgrounds, or other public grounds, public places, public buildings, places
of amusement or eating places, parking lots or vacant lots in the city during
the minor's school hours. This section does not apply when:
      1.   The minor is accompanied by his or her parent, guardian, or other
adult person having the care or custody of the minor; or
      2.   The minor is on an emergency errand directed by his or her parent or
guardian or other adult person having care or custody of the minor; or
      3.   The minor is going to or coming directly from his or her place of
employment or a medical appointment; or
      4.   The minor is away from the school campus for lunch or has in his or
her possession a valid off campus permit issued by the school for a school
related activity. (Ord. 645-96, 7-18-1996)
   (C)   Violation: Notwithstanding any other provisions of this code, when a
person under the age of eighteen (18) years is charged with a violation of this
section, and a peace officer issues a notice to appear in court to that minor,
the charge shall be deemed an infraction.
   (D)   Penalties For Violation: Any person convicted of wilfully violating
this section is guilty of an infraction punishable by a fine not to exceed
eighty dollars ($80.00) and/or eight (8) hours of community service. Community
service shall be served during a time other than the minor's hours of school
attendance or employment. (Ord. 694-02, 8-20-2002)
8-3-2: PARENT RESPONSIBLE:
   (A)   Generally: It shall be unlawful for any parent, guardian or any adult
person having control, custody or charge of any person under the age of
eighteen (18) years, to permit, allow or let the person idle, wander, stroll,
or be in or upon the public streets, avenues, highways, roads, alleys,
sidewalks, parks, playgrounds, or other amusement or eating places, parking
lots or vacant lots in the city between the hours of ten o'clock (10:00) P.M.
on any day and five o'clock (5:00) A.M. of the immediately following day,
unless the minor is lawfully upon the streets or public places or places of
entertainment or amusement as permitted by subsection
8-3-1(A) of this chapter.
   (B)   During School Hours: It shall be unlawful for any parent, guardian or
any adult person having control, custody or charge of any person under the age
of eighteen (18) years, who is subject to compulsory education or to compulsory
continuation education, to permit, allow or let the person loiter, idle,
wander, stroll or be in or upon the public streets, avenues, highways, roads,
alleys, sidewalks, parks, playgrounds, or other public grounds, public places,
public buildings, places of amusement or eating places, parking lots or vacant
lots in the city during the minor's school hours, unless the minor is lawfully
upon the streets, public places or places of entertainment or amusement as
permitted by subsection
8-3-1(B) of this chapter.
   (C)   Violation: Notwithstanding any other provisions of this code, when a
person is charged with a violation of this section, the charge shall be deemed
an infraction. If the person has been previously convicted of a violation of
this section, subsequent violations shall be deemed a misdemeanor. (Ord. 645-
96, 7-18-1996)
   (D)   Penalties For Violation: Any person convicted of wilfully violating
this section is guilty of an infraction punishable by a fine not to exceed
eighty dollars ($80.00). Any person who, having been previously convicted of a
violation of this section, is charged with a subsequent violation of this
section shall be punished by a fine not to exceed five hundred dollars
($500.00), or by imprisonment in the county jail for a period of not more than
six (6) months, or by both fine and imprisonment. (Ord. 694-02, 8-20-2002)
8-3-3: SEVERABILITY:
If any section, subsection, sentence, clause, phrase or portion of this chapter
is for any reason held to be invalid or unconstitutional by the decision of any
court of competent jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the validity of
the remaining portions of this chapter. The city council hereby declares that
it would have adopted this chapter and each section, subsection, sentence,
clause, phrase, or portion thereof, irrespective of the fact that any one or
more section, subsection, sentence, clause, phrase or portion may be declared
invalid or unconstitutional. (Ord. 645-96, 7-18-1996)
CHAPTER 4
AIR GUNS
SECTION:
8-4-1: Air Guns; Unlawful
8-4-1: AIR GUNS; UNLAWFUL:
Any person who shall carry on his person, or make use of any air gun, sling
shot or instrument, or other thing commonly used or which may be used for
throwing any shot, bullet, rock, stone, pebble, or other missile or discharge
any firearm within the City, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor; provided, that
this Section shall not apply to any adult person when using any of the above
described instruments or things upon premises owned or occupied by the adult
person, in the protection of his property; but such use must be with due regard
to the safety of others. (Ord. 34 N.S., 1-18-1932)
CHAPTER 5
AMPLIFIERS
SECTION:
8-5-1: Amplifiers Unlawful
8-5-1: AMPLIFIERS UNLAWFUL:
It shall be unlawful for any person knowingly or wantonly to use or operate, or
to cause to be used or operated, any mechanical device, machine, apparatus, or
instrument for intensification or amplification of the human voice or any sound
or noise in any public or private place in such manner that the peace and good
order of the neighborhood is disturbed or that persons owning, using, or
occupying property in the neighborhood are disturbed or annoyed. (Ord. 48 N.S.,
5-21-1934)
CHAPTER 6
ELECTRICAL INTERFERENCE
SECTION:
8-6-1: Unlawful Interference
8-6-2: Interstate Commerce; Exemptions From Chapter
8-6-1: UNLAWFUL INTERFERENCE:
It shall be unlawful for any person knowingly or wantonly to operate or cause
to be operated, any machine, device, apparatus or instrument of any kind
whatsoever within the corporate limits at any time, the operation of which
shall cause reasonably preventable electrical interference with radio and
television reception, within the corporate limits; provided, however, that x-
ray pictures, examinations, or treatments may be made at any time if the
machines or apparatus used therefor are properly equipped to avoid all
unnecessary or reasonably preventable interference with radio reception and are
not negligently operated. (Ord. 47 N.S., 5-21-1934)
8-6-2: INTERSTATE COMMERCE; EXEMPTIONS FROM CHAPTER:
This Chapter shall not be held or construed to embrace or cover the regulation
of any transmitting, broadcasting or receiving instrument, apparatus, or device
used or useful in interstate commerce or the operation of which instrument,
apparatus, or device is licensed or authorized by or under the provisions of
any act of Congress. (Ord. 47 N.S., 5-21-1934)
CHAPTER 7
HANDBILLS
SECTION:
8-7-1: Distribution Of Handbills; Unlawful
8-7-2: Posting On Public Property
8-7-1: DISTRIBUTION OF HANDBILLS; UNLAWFUL:
No person shall throw, cast or distribute, or cause to be thrown, cast or
distributed, any handbill, dodger, card circular, newspaper or other
advertising matter, in or upon any street or public place, or in a front yard
or court yard, or on any stoop, or in the vestibule or any hall of any
building, or in a letter box therein; provided, that nothing herein contained
shall be deemed to prohibit or otherwise regulate the delivery of any such
matter by the postal service, or the delivery of newspapers when property
wrapped or tied in such a manner as to avoid fire hazard. (Ord. 27 N.S., 9-2-
1930)
8-7-2: POSTING ON PUBLIC PROPERTY:
It shall be unlawful for any person to attach or cause to be attached to any
post, building, awning or other structure or part thereof, for the purpose of
distribution, any handbill, card, poster, dodger or other advertising matter.
(Ord. 27 N.S., 9-2-1930)
CHAPTER 8
GAMBLING
   (Rep. by Ord. 183, 7-18-1927)
CHAPTER 9
[RESERVED]
 
CHAPTER 10
ANIMALS; FOWL
SECTION:
8-10-1: Nuisance Declared
8-10-2: Fowl; Animals Prohibited
8-10-3: Failure To Abate
8-10-1: NUISANCE DECLARED:
It is hereby declared to be a nuisance and it shall be unlawful for any person
to erect, possess, or maintain at or upon any premises, owned, controlled or
occupied by him, in the city, any chicken or pigeon coop, pen or yard, goat
pens, cow barn, horse stable, manure pile or any buildings or yard or court of
same, any cellar, basement, vault, cesspool, drain, sewer, plumbing fixtures,
garbage or trash receptacle in a foul, obnoxious or filthy condition, that will
contribute to or cause foul odors, breeding of flies, or any filthy condition
that is or may become detrimental to public health, life or safety. (Ord. 685-
01, 6-5-2001)
8-10-2: FOWL; ANIMALS PROHIBITED:
It is hereby declared to be a nuisance and it shall be unlawful for any person
to keep or maintain within the city, in any zone unless specifically permitted
by title VI (planning and zoning) of this code any chicken, turkey or other
fowl; horse, mule, donkey or other equine animal; cow, steer, or other bovine
animal; sheep, goats or other ovine animal; rabbits or other lagomorph mammals,
pigs or other swine, or any other small livestock animal. (Ord. 685-01, 6-5-
2001)
8-10-3: FAILURE TO ABATE:
Failure, neglect or refusal of any person, owner, occupant or agent having
control of such house, premises or other places to comply or abate such
nuisance after notice in writing from the health officer, or any peace officer,
shall be sufficient grounds for summary abatement in addition to the penalties
provided by this code. (Ord. 685-01, 6-5-2001)
CHAPTER 11
DRUG PARAPHERNALIA
SECTION:
8-11-1: Definitions
8-11-2: Display Of Drug Paraphernalia
8-11-3: Distribution Of Drug Paraphernalia
8-11-4: Exceptions
8-11-5: Violations
8-11-6: Public Nuisance
8-11-7: Revocation Of Business License
8-11-8: Intent
8-11-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following terms shall be ascribed the following
meanings:
BUSINESS: A fixed location, whether indoors or outdoors, at which merchandise
is offered for sale at retail.
CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE: Those controlled substances set forth in sections 11054,
11055, 11056, 11057 and 11058 of the California Health And Safety Code,
identified as schedules I through V, inclusive, as said sections now exist or
may hereafter be amended. "Controlled substances" shall also include all
substances otherwise prohibited for display, sale, distribution, consumption,
or possession within the city of Taft by other sections of this code.
DISPLAY: To show to a patron, or place in a manner so as to be available for
viewing or inspection by a patron.
DISTRIBUTE: To transfer ownership or a possessory interest to another, whether
for consideration or as a gratuity, and includes both sales and gifts.
DRUG PARAPHERNALIA: All equipment, products, and materials of any kind which
are used or are intended by a person charged with a violation of this chapter
for use in planting, propagating, cultivating, growing, harvesting,
manufacturing, compounding, converting, producing, processing, preparing,
testing, analyzing, packaging, repacking, storing, containing, concealing,
injecting, ingesting, inhaling, or otherwise introducing into the human body a
controlled substance in violation of any law of the state of California, even
if under some circumstances such activity is permitted under a law of the state
of California, including, but not limited to, the following:
   (A)   Kits used or intended for use in planting, propagating, cultivating,
growing or harvesting of any species of plant which is a controlled substance
or from which a controlled substance can be derived.
   (B)   Kits used or intended for use in manufacturing, compounding,
converting, producing, processing or preparing controlled substances.
   (C)   Isomerization devices used or intended for use in increasing the
potency of any species of plant which is a controlled substance.
   (D)   Testing equipment used or intended for use in identifying or in
analyzing the strength, effectiveness or purity of controlled substances.
   (E)   Scales and balances used or intended for use in weighing or measuring
controlled substances.
   (F)   Diluents and adulterants, such as quinine hydrochloride, mannitol,
mannite, dextrose and lactose, used or intended for use in cutting controlled
substances.
   (G)   Separation gins and sifters used or intended for use in removing twigs
and seeds from, or in otherwise cleaning or refining, marijuana.
   (H)   Blenders, bowls, containers, spoons and mixing devices used or
intended for use in compounding controlled substances.
   (I)   Capsules, balloons, envelopes, and other containers used or intended
for use in packaging small quantities of controlled substances.
   (J)   Containers and other objects used or intended for use in storing or
concealing controlled substances.
   (K)   Objects used or intended for use in ingesting, inhaling or otherwise
introducing marijuana, cocaine, hashish or hashish oil into the human body,
such as:
      1.   Metal, wooden, acrylic, glass, stone, plastic, or ceramic pipes with
or without screens, permanent screens, hashish heads, or punctured metal bowls.
      2.   Water pipes.
      3.   Carburetion tubes and devices.
      4.   Smoking and carburetion masks.
      5.   Metal or decorative clips, commonly known as alligator clips,
tweezers or other devices used or intended to be used to hold marijuana
cigarettes.
      6.   Miniature spoons used or intended to be used to measure cocaine, and
vials used or intended to be used to contain cocaine.
      7.   Chamber pipes.
      8.   Carburetor pipes.
      9.   Air driven pipes.
      10.   Bongs.
In determining whether an object is "drug paraphernalia" as defined herein, a
court or other authority may, but need not, consider, in addition to all other
logically relevant factors, the following: statements by an owner or by anyone
in control of the object concerning its use; the existence of any residue of
controlled substances on the object; direct or circumstantial evidence of the
intent of an owner, or of anyone in control of the object, to deliver to
persons whom he knows or reasonably should know intend to use the object to
facilitate a violation of the laws of the state of California relating to
controlled substances; instructions, oral or written, provided with the object
concerning its use; descriptive materials accompanying the object which explain
or depict its use; the manner in which the object is displayed for sale,
including, without limitation, display in the same business with items
referencing or depicting controlled substances and/or drug paraphernalia;
direct or circumstantial evidence of the ratio of sales of the object or
objects to the total sales of the business enterprise; the existence and scope
of legitimate uses for the object in the community; and expert testimony
concerning its use.
PATRON: A person who enters a business for the purpose of purchasing or viewing
as a shopper, merchandise offered for sale at the business.
PERSON: A natural person or any firm, partnership, association, corporation or
cooperative association. (Ord. 811-15, 5-19-2015)
8-11-2: DISPLAY OF DRUG PARAPHERNALIA:
Notwithstanding any other law, it shall be unlawful for any person to wilfully
maintain or operate any business where drug paraphernalia is displayed at such
business, and it shall be unlawful for any person who is the owner of a
business, an employee thereof, or anyone who works at such business as an agent
of the owner to display drug paraphernalia at such business. Including a
disclaimer in any form or in any location that drug paraphernalia is "for use
for tobacco only", or any similar disclaimer, will not avoid the application of
this section. (Ord. 811-15, 5-19-2015)
8-11-3: DISTRIBUTION OF DRUG PARAPHERNALIA:
Notwithstanding any other law, it shall be unlawful for any person to
distribute to another person drug paraphernalia, whether to plant, propagate,
cultivate, grow, harvest, manufacture, compound, convert, produce, process,
prepare, test, analyze, pack, repack, store, contain, conceal, inject, ingest,
inhale, or otherwise introduce into the human body a controlled substance in
violation of any law of the state of California. (Ord. 811-15, 5-19-2015)
8-11-4: EXCEPTIONS:
No provision of this chapter shall be deemed, whether directly or indirectly,
to authorize any act which is otherwise prohibited by any law of the state of
California, or require any act which is otherwise prohibited by any law of the
state of California. Nor shall any provision of this chapter be deemed, whether
directly or indirectly, to prohibit any act or acts which are prohibited by any
law of the state of California. (Ord. 811-15, 5-19-2015)
8-11-5: VIOLATIONS:
   (A)   Misdemeanor Violation: Failure to comply with any of the requirements
of this chapter is a misdemeanor punishable by imprisonment in the city or
county jail for a period not exceeding six (6) months or by fine not exceeding
one thousand dollars ($1,000.00), or by both, provided that where the city
attorney determines that such action would be in the interest of justice, he or
she may specify in the accusatory pleading that the offense shall be an
infraction.
   (B)   Infraction Violation: Where the city attorney determines that, in the
interest of justice, a violation of this chapter is an infraction, such
infraction is punishable by a fine not exceeding one hundred dollars ($100.00)
for a first violation, a fine not exceeding two hundred dollars ($200.00) for a
second violation of the same provision within one year, and a fine not
exceeding five hundred dollars ($500.00) for each additional infraction
violation of the same provision within one year. An infraction is not
punishable by imprisonment. A person charged with an infraction shall not be
entitled to a trial by jury and shall not be entitled to have the public
defender or other counsel appointed at public expense to represent him or her,
unless he or she is arrested and not released on his or her written promise to
appear, his or her own recognizance or a deposit of bail. However, any person
who has previously been convicted two (2) or more times during any twelve (12)
month period for any violation of this chapter for a crime made punishable as
an infraction may be charged with a misdemeanor upon the third violation.
   (C)   Modification: The fine amounts set forth above may be modified, from
time to time, by city council resolution. In no event shall such fine amounts
exceed the amounts authorized by state law.
   (D)   Separate Violations: Any person violating section
8-11-2 of this chapter shall be deemed to be guilty of a separate offense for
each day, or portion thereof, during which the violation continues. Any person
violating section
8-11-3 of this chapter shall be guilty of a separate offense for each item of
drug paraphernalia which is distributed. (Ord. 811-15, 5-19-2015)
8-11-6: PUBLIC NUISANCE:
   (A)   It is a public nuisance for any person to violate section
8-11-2 or
8-11-3 of this chapter within the city of Taft.
   (B)   In addition to all remedies and penalties described above, violations
of this chapter may be cited and are prosecutable under title I, chapters 1
through 3, inclusive, of this code.
   (C)   Because the display, sale, and/or use of drug paraphernalia is a
public nuisance and can lead to injury and death, any violation of this chapter
presents an immediate threat and grave and imminent danger not only to the
person displaying, possessing, selling, or buying said drug paraphernalia, but
also to the public at large. If the code compliance officer, city manager,
chief of police, police officer, or other designated official, based on the
facts then known, determines that a violation of this chapter presents an
immediate threat, imminent danger or hazard or is imminently injurious to the
public health or safety, then that violation is punishable by the emergency
abatement procedures set forth in section
3-4-11 of this code. (Ord. 811-15, 5-19-2015)
8-11-7: REVOCATION OF BUSINESS LICENSE:
Notwithstanding any provision contained in this code to the contrary, violation
of the provisions of this chapter shall constitute grounds for immediate
revocation of any business license issued pursuant to the provisions of this
code to a business upon the premises of which the violation has occurred. (Ord.
811-15, 5-19-2015)
8-11-8: INTENT:
The city council hereby declares that it would have passed this chapter if any
part hereof is held invalid and that the provisions of this chapter are
severable, and if for any reason any word, sentence, paragraph or part hereof
is held invalid, such decisions shall not affect the validity of the remaining
parts of this chapter. (Ord. 811-15, 5-19-2015)
CHAPTER 12
GRAFFITI PREVENTION AND ABATEMENT
SECTION:
8-12-1: Purpose
8-12-2: Graffiti Defined
8-12-3: Public Nuisance
8-12-4: Display Of Aerosol Spray Paint Containers And Marker Pens
8-12-5: Sale Of Wide Tipped Marker Pens To Minors
8-12-6: Possession Of Aerosol Paint Container Or Wide Tipped Marker Pen
8-12-7: Removal Of Graffiti
8-12-8: Penalty
8-12-9: Severability
8-12-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to prevent graffiti and provide for the prompt
abatement of graffiti from public and private property in the city; to provide
for methods of controlling the sale, use and possession of instruments used in
creating graffiti; and to encourage citizens to report occurrences of graffiti
vandalism within the city. (Ord. 617, 7-5-1994)
8-12-2: GRAFFITI DEFINED:
"Graffiti" means, but is not limited to, an unauthorized inscription, word,
figure, design, writing or picture which is marked, etched, scratched, drawn or
painted upon any public or private property, either real or personal, or any
structure, wall, fence, sidewalk, sign, public utility box, or any structural
component of any building, bridge, structure or any facility in public view to
any person utilizing any public street in the city, including, but not limited
to, any roadway, parkway, sidewalk or alley. (Ord. 617, 7-5-1994)
8-12-3: PUBLIC NUISANCE:
The city hereby declares graffiti to be a public nuisance to be abated pursuant
to the provisions provided in title III, chapter 4 of this code. Nothing in
this or any other chapter shall be deemed to prevent the city from commencing a
civil or criminal proceeding to abate a public nuisance under applicable Civil
or Penal Code provisions as an alternative to the proceedings set forth herein.
(Ord. 617, 7-5-1994)
8-12-4: DISPLAY OF AEROSOL SPRAY PAINT CONTAINERS AND MARKER PENS:
   (A)   Every person who owns, conducts, operates or manages a retail
commercial establishment selling aerosol paint containers or marker pens with
the tip exceeding six millimeters (6 mm) in width, containing anything other
than a solution which can be removed with water after it dries, shall store or
cause such aerosol paint containers or marker pens to be stored, if viewable by
the public, in a manner not accessible to the public in the regular course of
business without employee assistance, pending legal sale or disposition of such
marker pens or paint containers. (Ord. 617, 7-5-1994)
8-12-5: SALE OF WIDE TIPPED MARKER PENS TO MINORS:
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation, except a
parent or legal guardian, to sell or give or in any way furnish any marker pen
with the tip exceeding six millimeters (6 mm) in width, containing anything
other than a solution which can be removed with water when dry, to any person
under the age of eighteen (18) years who is not accompanied by a responsible
adult.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of eighteen (18)
years to purchase a marker pen(s) with the tip exceeding six millimeters (6 mm)
in width, containing anything other than a solution which can be removed with
water when dry.
   (C)   Every retailer selling or offering for sale marker pens with the tip
exceeding six millimeters (6 mm) in width, containing anything other than a
solution which can be removed with water when dry, shall post in a conspicuous
place a sign in letters at least three-eighths inch (3/8") high stating:
ANY PERSON WHO MALICIOUSLY DEFACES REAL OR PERSONAL PROPERTY WITH INK OR OTHER
PERMANENT LIQUIDS IS GUILTY OF VANDALISM, PUNISHABLE BY FINE AND/OR
IMPRISONMENT.
(Ord. 617, 7-5-1994)
8-12-6: POSSESSION OF AEROSOL PAINT CONTAINER OR WIDE TIPPED MARKER PEN:
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person under the age of eighteen (18) years,
who is on private property, without the consent of the owner, tenant or
operator thereon, or who is in a public place, to possess a marker pen with the
tip exceeding six millimeters (6 mm) in width, containing anything other than a
solution which can be removed with water when dry. For purposes of this
section, a "public place" includes, but is not limited to, all public buildings
and facilities, public highway, street, alley or way, regardless of whether
that person is or is not in any automobile, vehicle or other conveyance. This
subsection shall not apply to the possession of a marker pen with the tip
exceeding six millimeters (6 mm) in width, by a minor under the supervision of
a responsible adult.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any individual, who is on private property, without
the consent of the owner, tenant or operator thereon, to possess an aerosol or
pressurized container of paint for the purpose of defacing property. (Ord. 617,
7-5-1994)
8-12-7: REMOVAL OF GRAFFITI:
   (A)   General: Any person applying graffiti to any private or public
property within the city shall have the duty to remove same in a manner
approved by the city and the property owner within a time specified by the city
or its designated representative. Failure of any person to so remove graffiti
as directed shall constitute an additional violation of this chapter.
Consistent with Civil Code section 1714.1, where graffiti is applied by a
minor, the parent or guardian thereof shall be jointly and severally liable
with the minor for any damages resulting therefrom. The application of graffiti
to any private or public property within the city shall be punished as set
forth in Penal Code section 594 or 640.6.
   (B)   Public Property: Whenever the city manager or his designated
representative determines that graffiti exists upon property owned by the city,
the city shall take all reasonable and timely steps to remove same. When the
property is owned by another public entity in the city, the removal of the
graffiti may be authorized by the city or its designated representative, and
removal undertaken by the city only after securing written consent of the
public entity having jurisdiction over the property and such entity executes a
release and waiver approved as to form by the city attorney.
   (C)   Private Property: Where the property is privately owned, the removal
of the graffiti or other inscribed material may be authorized by the city
manager or his designated representative only after securing the consent of the
owner and the owner executes a release and waiver approved as to form by the
city attorney.
   (D)   Restitution: Any individual who is found guilty of violating this
section shall pay restitution to the property owner, in addition to any other
authorized penalty imposed. If the violator is a minor, the parent or guardian
shall be jointly responsible for payment of restitution. If unable to pay, the
juvenile may be permitted to work off his/her payment under the direction of at
least one parent, with the consent of the property owner, by painting out or
other removal of such graffiti. (Ord. 617, 7-5-1994)
8-12-8: PENALTY:
A violation of this chapter, except where otherwise indicated, is an infraction
subject to all penalties set forth in section
1-1-11 of this code. (Ord. 694-02, 8-20-2002)
8-12-9: SEVERABILITY:
It is declared to be the intention of the city council that the subsections,
paragraphs, sentences, clauses and phrases of this section form an interrelated
program for dealing with the problem of graffiti and vandalism within the city,
but that such subsections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses and phrases are
distinct and severable and, in the event that any subsections, paragraphs,
clauses and phrases are declared unconstitutional, invalid or unenforceable by
any court of competent jurisdiction, such unconstitutionality, invalidity or
unenforceability shall not affect any of the remaining subsections, paragraphs,
clauses or phrases of this chapter. (Ord. 617, 7-5-1994)
CHAPTER 13
MILITARY EQUIPMENT USE POLICY
SECTION:
8-13-1: Adoption
8-13-1: ADOPTION:
The City Council hereby makes the following determinations:
   A.   The military equipment identified in Taft Police Department Policy 710
is necessary because there are no reasonable alternatives that can achieve the
same objectives of officer and civilian safety.
   B.   The Military Equipment Use Policy, as set forth in Taft Police
Department Policies and Procedures Policy 710, will safeguard the public's
welfare, safety, civil rights, and civil liberties.
   C.   The Military Equipment Use Policy, as set forth in Taft Police
Department Policy and Procedures Policy 710, is approved and adopted.
   D.   A copy of Taft Police Department Policy 710 may be obtained on the City
of Taft website at Military Equipment Policy - Taft CA (cityoftaft.org), from
the Taft Police Department or from the City Clerk. (Ord. 847-22, 7-19-2022)
CHAPTER 14
REGULATING THE POSSESSION, SALE, AND USE OF FIREWORKS
SECTION:
8-14-1: Declaration Of Policy
8-14-2: Definitions
8-14-3: Possession, Sale, And Use Of Safe And Sane Fireworks Regulations;
Public Nuisance Declared For The Unauthorized Possession, Sale, Or Use Of Safe
And Sane Fireworks
8-14-4: Enforcement For The Unauthorized Possession, Sale, Or Use Of Safe And
Sane Fireworks
8-14-5: General Prohibition Against The Possession, Sale, And Use Of Dangerous
Fireworks; Public Nuisance Declared For The Unauthorized Possession, Sale, Or
Use Of Dangerous Fireworks
8-14-6: Exception To The General Prohibition Against Dangerous Fireworks -
Allowance Of Certain Public Displays And Special Effects Pursuant To State
License And City-Issued Permit
8-14-7: Enforcement For Unauthorized Possession, Sale, Or Use Of Dangerous
Fireworks
8-14-1: DECLARATION OF POLICY:
It is the City's responsibility to promote the health, peace, safety, welfare
and convenience of all persons. The City Council accordingly finds it necessary
to codify the regulatory scheme of the State fireworks law with respect to
"dangerous" fireworks, the possession, sale, and use of which is illegal. The
City Council further finds it desirable to sanction the possession, sale, and
use of non-dangerous, or "safe and sane" fireworks, subject to reasonable
regulations such that this classification of fireworks can be safely possessed,
purchased, and used by the members of the community to celebrate during the
Fourth of July holiday season. (Ord. 852-23, 7-18-2023)
8-14-2: DEFINITIONS:
The following definitions apply to this chapter:
                                        As defined in Health and Safety Code
                                        sections 12505 and 12561 and the
DANGEROUS FIREWORKS:                    relevant sections of title 19, Code of
                                        Regulations, subchapter 6 which are
                                        hereby incorporated by reference.
                                        As defined in section
                                        1-3-3 or any other individual or body
ENFORCEMENT OFFICER:                    appointed by the city manager to
                                        enforce codes and which is authorized
                                        to administer this chapter.
                                        The fire chief of the City by and
                                        through the Kern County Fire Department
FIRE CHIEF:                             for Fire Prevention and Inspection
                                        Services or his or her authorized
                                        representatives.
                                        Any building, counter, or other
FIREWORKS STAND:                        structure of a temporary nature used in
                                        the sale, offering for sale, or display
                                        for sale of safe and sane fireworks.
                                        Any non-profit association, charity or
                                        corporation organized primarily for
                                        veteran, patriotic, welfare, civic
                                        betterment or charitable purposes which
                                        has been issued a tax-exempt
                                        certificate as required under the
                                        Revenue and Taxation Code of the State
                                        of California or a group which is an
                                        integral part of a recognized national
NON-PROFIT ORGANIZATION:                organization having such tax-exempt
                                        status or an organization affiliated
                                        with and officially recognized by an
                                        elementary, junior high and/or high
                                        school and/or school district that
                                        serves, in whole or in part, the
                                        residents of the City or public and/or
                                        private community college, college and/
                                        or university which is located within
                                        the boundaries of the City.
                                        An entertainment feature where the
PUBLIC DISPLAY OF FIREWORKS:            public is admitted or permitted to view
                                        the display or discharge of fireworks.
PYROTECHNIC OPERATOR:                   This term is as defined in Health and
                                        Safety Code section 12527.
                                        Means "safe and sane fireworks" as set
                                        forth in Health and Safety Code
SAFE AND SANE FIREWORKS (a.k.a. "state- sections 12529 and 12562 the relevant
approved fireworks"):                   sections of title 19, Code of
                                        Regulations, subchapter 6 which are
                                        hereby incorporated by reference.
STATE FIRE MARSHAL:                     The California State Fire Marshal.
                                        (Ord. 852-23, 7-18-2023)
 
8-14-3: POSSESSION, SALE, AND USE OF SAFE AND SANE FIREWORKS REGULATIONS;
PUBLIC NUISANCE DECLARED FOR THE UNAUTHORIZED POSSESSION, SALE, OR USE OF SAFE
AND SANE FIREWORKS:
   (A)   Regulation: Any sale of safe and sane fireworks within the City shall
be done in accordance with chapter 13 of title IV and any relevant provision of
this chapter. Any use of safe and sane fireworks is only permitted during the
following time frames: July 1: twelve o’clock (12:00) noon to 12:01 A.M. of the
next day; July 2: nine o’clock (9:00) A.M. to 12:01 A.M. of the next day; July
3: nine o’clock (9:00) A.M. to 12:01 A.M. of the next day; July 4: nine o’clock
(9:00) A.M. to twelve thirty o’clock (12:30) A.M. of the next day. Any
possession and use of safe and sane fireworks must be in accordance with this
code, all applicable laws, and not create danger, harm, or other unlawful
annoyance. The use of safe and sane fireworks in the City shall be limited to
private property except as otherwise provided herein. No safe and sane
fireworks shall be discharged on public, semipublic or private open areas such
as parking lots, vacant property or in public streets or right of ways except
in public parks and those areas approved by the City. No fireworks shall be
discharged in the "high fire hazard areas." It shall be unlawful for any person
to ignite, discharge, project or otherwise fire or use, any safe and sane
fireworks, or permit the ignition, discharge or projection thereof, upon or
over or onto the property of another without his/her consent or to ignite,
discharge, project or otherwise fire or make use of any safe and sane fireworks
within ten feet (10') or any residence, dwelling or other structure used as a
place of habitation by human beings.
   (B)   Nuisance Declared: The City hereby declares the possession, use, or
sale of safe and sane fireworks contrary to chapter 13 of title IV and any
provisions of this chapter to be a public nuisance to be abated pursuant to all
laws applicable to the City for enforcement. (Ord. 852-23, 7-18-2023)
8-14-4: ENFORCEMENT FOR THE UNAUTHORIZED POSSESSION, SALE, OR USE OF SAFE AND
SANE FIREWORKS:
   (A)   Administrative Fines and Penalties: Failure to abide by the
regulations of section
8-14-3 or chapter 13 of title IV is hereby declared a violation of the code and
subject to the City's enforcement. The City may pursue enforcement by all means
authorized by law, including but not limited to penalties listed in chapter 13
of title IV and imposition and payment of an administrative fine or fines as
provided below:
 
Number of Offenses in Amount of                      Total Amount of
1-Year Period         Administrative Disposal Charge Penalty plus Disposal
                      Penalty                        Charge
First                 $250           $75             $325
Second                $500           $150            $650
Third                 $750           $300            $1,050
 
   (B)   Any responsible party issued administrative fines and penalties under
8-14-4 shall comply with the city's administrative citation process pursuant to
chapter 3 of title I.
   (C)   This chapter and chapter 13 of title IV are just some of the methods
of enforcement of violations of the municipal code and other laws the City is
authorized to enforce. It shall supplement and be in addition to the other
regulatory codes, statutes and ordinances heretofore or hereafter enacted by
the City, the state of California, or any other legal entity or agency having
jurisdiction. The City may concurrently, separately, or consecutively utilize
other methods of enforcement for ensuring compliance with applicable laws,
including but not limited to, civil remedies such as injunctions, criminal
remedies such as prosecution, and other administrative remedies available under
applicable law, including nuisance abatement under chapters 4, 4.1, 4.2, 4.3
and 5 of title III. (Ord. 852-23, 7-18-2023)
8-14-5: GENERAL PROHIBITION AGAINST THE POSSESSION, SALE, AND USE OF DANGEROUS
FIREWORKS; PUBLIC NUISANCE DECLARED FOR THE UNAUTHORIZED POSSESSION, SALE, OR
USE OF DANGEROUS FIREWORKS:
   (A)   Regulation: Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, no person
shall possess, sell, use, display, or explode any dangerous fireworks
including, but not limited to, any rocket, firecracker, roman candle, squib,
torpedo, wire core sparkler, wooden core sparkler, black cartridge, aerial
shell, or other combustible device or explosive substance or any kind of
fireworks, by whatsoever name known, or any altered "safe and sane fireworks"
within the City unless such use meets all criteria pursuant to section
8-14-6 of this chapter.
   (B)   Nuisance Declared: The City hereby declares the use of dangerous
fireworks, unless such use is excepted pursuant to section
8-14-6 of this chapter, to be a public nuisance to be abated pursuant to the
provisions provided in title III, chapter 4 of this code. (Ord. 852-23, 7-18-
2023)
8-14-6: EXCEPTION TO THE GENERAL PROHIBITION AGAINST DANGEROUS FIREWORKS -
ALLOWANCE OF CERTAIN PUBLIC DISPLAYS AND SPECIAL EFFECTS PURSUANT TO STATE
LICENSE AND CITY-ISSUED PERMIT:
The general prohibition against the possession, sale, and use of dangerous
fireworks as stated in section 8-14-5 applies unless such possession, sale, or
use is done in connection with a city-issued permit by a state licensed
pyrotechnic operator as provided in this section as follows:
   (A)   State License and City Permits Required: The city fire chief shall
have authority to adopt reasonable rules and regulations for the granting of
permits for those activities contained in section 12640 of the California
Health and Safety Code, including supervised public displays of fireworks by a
jurisdiction, fair association, amusement park, other organization, of for the
use of fireworks by artisans in pursuit of their trade. Each such use or
display shall be handled by a pyrotechnic operator licensed by the state fire
marshal (as defined by section 12527 of the California Health and Safety Code)
in accordance with a city-issued permit, and shall be of such character and so
located, discharged, or fired as in the opinion of the fire chief or his
designee, after proper investigation, will not be hazardous or endanger any
person.
   (B)   All applications for a City permit to conduct certain firework public
displays and special effects shall:
      1.   Provide a current copy of the pyrotechnic operating licensing
obtained from the Office of the State Fire Marshal as required under the laws
of the State.
      2.   Be submitted at least ten (10) days prior to the proposed firework
public display or special effect event date.
      3.   Include a diagram of the grounds on which the display is to be held
showing the point at which the fireworks are to be discharged; the location of
buildings, highways and other lines of communication; the lines behind which
the audience will be restrained; and the location of nearby trees, telegraph or
telephone lines and other overhead obstructions. At the time of permit
application, the fire chief shall be consulted regarding the requirements for
standby fire apparatus.
      4.   Be accompanied with required fees as provided in subsection (C).
      5.   Provide proof of required liability insurance as provided in
subsection (D). A statement indicating that requirements under subsection (D)
were met prior to submitting this application shall accompany the proof of
required liability insurance.
      6.   Include a statement that the applicant agrees to comply strictly
with the terms of any permit granted to it and furnish any additional
information upon request of the fire chief or any enforcement officer.
   (C)   Fees Required: Every application for permit to conduct a public
display of fireworks shall be accompanied by a non-refundable fee as
established by resolution of the City Council. This fee shall be in addition to
any fee or tax imposed by the City Council. Every applicant shall agree to hold
the City, its officers and employees, harmless from any and all claims for
damages or other costs arising out of the activity authorized by the permit.
   (D)   Liability Insurance Required: Any person, firm or corporation applying
for a public display of fireworks city permit shall furnish to the city manager
proof of coverage by a policy of public liability and property damage
insurance. The policy shall provide limits of bodily injury and property damage
liability of not less than five million dollars combined single limits for each
occurrence annually for payments of damages to persons or property which may
result from or be caused by such public display of fireworks, or any negligence
on the part of the licensee or his/her/its agents, servants, employees and/or
subcontractors presenting such public display. No permit shall be issued until
the permittee furnishes the city manager with a certificate of insurance for
each policy required, executed by the company issuing said policy and approved
as to form by the city attorney. Such policies shall contain a provision which
includes the City of Taft as an additional insured and declares said insurance
to be primary and that no other insurance carried by an insured party shall be
called upon for contribution. Such insurance policies shall contain an
endorsement that the company issuing such policy or policies will not allow the
same to be canceled without serving, by first class mail, thirty days' notice
of cancellation upon the city clerk for the City. Notwithstanding any other
provision of this chapter, the failure of the permittee to carry such policy or
policies in force and to properly renew said insurance during the time covered
by such permit shall automatically revoke the permit as of the date of
expiration of such insurance policy or policies. A payment of the full amount
of the permit fee required by this chapter shall be made to the City before any
such revoked permit may be reinstated.
   (E)   Appeal: The decision of the city fire chief acting on an application
for a permit to conduct a public display of fireworks in accordance with the
provision of this chapter shall be final and only subject to appeal to Superior
Court. (Ord. 852-23, 7-18-2023)
8-14-7: ENFORCEMENT FOR UNAUTHORIZED POSSESSION, SALE, OR USE OF DANGEROUS
FIREWORKS:
   (A)   General:
      1.   This chapter authorizes the imposition of administrative fines on
any person who violates any provision of this chapter pursuant to the City's
administrative citation process under chapter 3 of title I.
      2.   This section governs the imposition, enforcement, collection and
administrative review of all administrative fines related to: the possession,
use, storage, sale and/or display of those fireworks classified as dangerous
fireworks in California Health and Safety Code section 12500 et seq., with the
exception of a pyrotechnic licensee when operating pursuant to that license;
and the use of safe and sane fireworks as defined in California Health and
Safety Code section 12500 et seq. on or at dates, times and/or locations other
than those permitted by this chapter, or in any manner contrary to this
chapter. Said administrative fines are imposed under authority of Government
Code section 53069.4, Health and Safety Code section 12557, and the police
power of the City.
      3.   The issuance of citations imposing administrative fines may be
performed at the discretion of the officials of the City authorized hereunder,
and the issuance of a citation to any person constitutes but one remedy of the
City to redress violations of this code by any person. By adopting this
chapter, the City does not intend to limit its authority to employ any other
remedy, civil or criminal, to redress any violation of this code by any person
which this City may otherwise pursue.
      4.   The imposition of fines related to dangerous fireworks under this
chapter shall be limited to persons who possess, sell, use and/or display, or
the seizure of, less than twenty-five (25) pounds (gross weight) of such
dangerous fireworks.
      5.   Fines collected pursuant to this chapter related to dangerous
fireworks shall not be subject to Health and Safety Code section 12706, which
section provides that certain fines collected by a court of the state be
deposited with, and disbursed by, the county treasurer. However, the City shall
provide cost reimbursement to the State Fire Marshal pursuant to regulations to
be adopted by the State Fire Marshal addressing the State Fire Marshal's cost
for the transportation and disposal of dangerous fireworks seized by the City,
which costs will be part of any administrative fine imposed. Unless and until
said regulations have been adopted by the state of California, the City shall
hold in trust two hundred fifty dollars or twenty-five percent (25%) of any
fine collected, whichever is greater, to cover the cost reimbursement to the
State Fire Marshal for said cost of transportation and disposal of the
dangerous fireworks.
      6.   Because of the serious threat of fire or injury posed by the use of
dangerous fireworks that can result from persistent or repeated failures to
comply with the provisions of this code and the effect of such conditions or
activities on the safety and the use and enjoyment of surrounding properties
and to the public health, safety and welfare, this chapter imposes strict civil
liability upon the owners of residential real property for all violations of
this code existing on their residential real property. Each contiguous use,
display and/or possession shall constitute a separate violation and shall be
subject to a separate administrative fine.
   (B)    Issuance Of Administrative Citations: Any person violating any
provision of this chapter may be subject to the assessment of civil fines and
penalties as provided in this chapter and chapter 3 of title I of this code
pursuant to the administrative procedures established in this chapter and
chapter 3 of title I, which are authorized by Government Code section 53069.4.
   (C)   Contents of Administrative Citation: Each administrative citation
issued for violations regarding unauthorized possession, use, or sale of safe
and sane fireworks shall include all information included in section
1-3-11 of title I. Each administrative citation issued for violations regarding
dangerous fireworks shall include all listed in
1-3-11 plus the following:
      1.   The amount of the administrative fine for each violation, including
the required disposal charge, pursuant to subsection (D) of this chapter; and
      2.   The names, addresses, and telephone numbers of any witnesses to the
violation(s).
   (D)   Administrative Fines And Penalties:
      1.   Failure to abide by the regulations of this chapter as it relates to
the possession, use, storage, sale, and/or display of dangerous fireworks is
hereby declared a violation of the code and subject to the City's enforcement.
The City may pursue enforcement by all means authorized by law, including but
not limited to imposition and payment of an administrative fine or fines as
provided below:
 
Number of Offenses in Amount of                      Total Amount of
1-Year Period         Administrative Disposal Charge Penalty plus Disposal
                      Penalty                        Charge
First                 $1,000         $250            $1,250
Second                $2,000         $500            $2,500
Third                 $3,000         $1,000          $4,000
 
      2.   Any responsible party issued administrative fines and penalties
under
8-14-7 for violations of this chapter shall comply with the City's
administrative citation process pursuant to chapter 3 of title I.
   (E)   This chapter is just one of the methods of enforcement of violations
of the municipal code and other laws the City is authorized to enforce. It
shall supplement and be in addition to the other regulatory codes, statutes and
ordinances heretofore or hereafter enacted by the City, the state of
California, or any other legal entity or agency having jurisdiction. The City
may concurrently, separately, or consecutively utilize other methods of
enforcement for ensuring compliance with applicable laws, including but not
limited to, civil remedies such as injunctions, criminal remedies such as
prosecution, and other administrative remedies available under applicable law,
including nuisance abatement under chapters 4, 4.1, 4.2, 4.3 and 5 of title
III. (Ord. 852-23, 7-18-2023)
TITLE IX
VEHICLES AND TRAFFIC
CHAPTER 1
DEFINITIONS 1
SECTION:
9-1-1: Definition Of Words And Phrases
9-1-2: Vehicle Code Definitions To Be Used
9-1-3: Central Traffic District
9-1-4: Coach
9-1-5: Curb
9-1-6: Divisional Island
9-1-7: Holidays
9-1-8: Limited Access Roadway
9-1-9: Loading Zone
9-1-10: Official Time Standard
9-1-11: Parkway
9-1-12: Passenger Loading Zone
9-1-13: Pedestrian
9-1-14: Police Department
9-1-15: Police Officer
9-1-16: Sidewalk Access Ramp
9-1-17: Stop, When Required
9-1-18: Yield
9-1-19: Vehicle Code
 
Notes
1 1. For statutory provisions of words in the Vehicle Code, see Veh. Code §100
  et seq.
9-1-1: DEFINITION OF WORDS AND PHRASES:
The following words and phrases when used in this Title shall, for the purpose
of this Title, have the meanings respectively ascribed to them in this Chapter.
(Ord. 651-97, 2-18-1997)
9-1-2: VEHICLE CODE DEFINITIONS TO BE USED:
Whenever any words or phrases used in this Title are not defined, but are
defined in the Vehicle Code of the State, such definition shall apply. (Ord.
651-97, 2-18-1997)
9-1-3: CENTRAL TRAFFIC DISTRICT:
All streets or portions of streets within the area bounded by the following
streets: all that area bounded by the east right-of-way line of Second Street
on the east; the north right-of-way line of Kern Street on the north; the west
right-of-way line of Tenth Street on the west; and the south right-of-way line
of Main Street on the south. (Ord. 651-97, 2-18-1997)
9-1-4: COACH:
Any motorbus, motor coach, trackless trolley, or passenger stage used as a
common carrier of passengers. (Ord. 651-97, 2-18-1997)
9-1-5: CURB:
The lateral boundary of the roadway whether such curb is marked by curbing
construction, or is not so marked. "Curb" as herein used does not include the
line dividing the roadway of a street from parking strips in the center of a
street, nor from tracks or rights of way or public utility companies. (Ord.
651-97, 2-18-1997)
9-1-6: DIVISIONAL ISLAND:
A raised island located in the roadway and separating opposing or conflicting
streams of traffic. A raised median is a divisional island. (Ord. 651-97, 2-18-
1997)
9-1-7: HOLIDAYS:
Within the meaning of this Title, "holidays" are those dates as described in
the Federal holiday law. (Ord. 651-97, 2-18-1997)
9-1-8: LIMITED ACCESS ROADWAY:
Any arterial or collector street other than local residential streets as
defined and established by resolution of the City Council on the circulation
element of the City General Plan. (Ord. 651-97, 2-18-1997)
9-1-9: LOADING ZONE:
The space adjacent to a curb reserved for the exclusive use of vehicles during
the loading or unloading of passengers or materials. (Ord. 651-97, 2-18-1997)
9-1-10: OFFICIAL TIME STANDARD:
Whenever certain hours are named in this Title they mean standard time or
daylight savings time as may be in current use in the City. (Ord. 651-97, 2-18-
1997)
9-1-11: PARKWAY:
That portion of a street within the right of way other than a roadway or a
sidewalk. (Ord. 651-97, 2-18-1997)
9-1-12: PASSENGER LOADING ZONE:
The space adjacent to a curb reserved for the exclusive use of vehicles during
the loading or unloading of passengers. (Ord. 651-97, 2-18-1997)
9-1-13: PEDESTRIAN:
Any person who is afoot or who is using a means of conveyance propelled by
human power other than a bicycle, including any person who is operating a self-
propelled wheelchair, invalid tricycle, or motorized quadricycle and, by reason
of physical disability, is otherwise unable to move about as a pedestrian, as
specified above. (Ord. 651-97, 2-18-1997)
9-1-14: POLICE DEPARTMENT:
The established Police Department of the City, or if there is none, the law
enforcement agency authorized by law to enforce the provisions of this Title.
(Ord. 651-97, 2-18-1997)
9-1-15: POLICE OFFICER:
Every officer of the Police Department of the City or any officer authorized to
direct or regulate traffic or to make arrests for violations of traffic
regulations. (Ord. 651-97, 2-18-1997)
9-1-16: SIDEWALK ACCESS RAMP:
The adequate and reasonable access for the safe and convenient movement of
physically handicapped persons across curbs at marked or unmarked crosswalks. A
wheelchair ramp is a sidewalk access ramp. (Ord. 651-97, 2-18-1997)
9-1-17: STOP, WHEN REQUIRED:
"Stop", when required, means complete cessation of movement. (Ord. 651-97, 2-
18-1997)
9-1-18: YIELD:
To relinquish right of way to another vehicle. (Ord. 651-97, 2-18-1997)
9-1-19: VEHICLE CODE:
The Vehicle Code of the State of California. (Ord. 651-97, 2-18-1997)
CHAPTER 2
ADMINISTRATION - POLICE 1
SECTION:
9-2-1: Enforcement
9-2-2: Authority
9-2-3: Vehicle Removal From Streets
9-2-4: Traffic Accident Report
9-2-5: Traffic Safety Report
 
Notes
  1. For statutory provisions authorizing cities to adopt rules and regulations
1 for traffic control, see Veh. Code § 21100.
   
9-2-1: ENFORCEMENT:
It shall be the duty of the Chief of Police to enforce the street traffic
regulations of the City and all of the State vehicle laws applicable to street
traffic in the City, to make arrests for traffic violations, to investigate
traffic accidents and to cooperate with the City Engineer and other officers of
the City in the administration of the traffic laws and in developing ways and
means to improve traffic conditions. (Ord. 651-97, 2-18-1997)
9-2-2: AUTHORITY:
Officers of the Police Department and such officers as are assigned by the
Chief of Police are authorized to direct all traffic by voice, hand, audible or
other signal in conformance with traffic laws, except that in the event of a
fire or other emergency or to expedite traffic or to safeguard pedestrians,
officers of the Police Department or members of the Fire Department may direct
traffic as conditions may require, notwithstanding the provisions to the
contrary contained in this Title or the Vehicle Code. (Ord. 651-97, 2-18-1997)
9-2-3: VEHICLE REMOVAL FROM STREETS:
Any regularly employed and salaried officer of the Police Department of the
City may remove or cause to be removed:
   (A)   Any vehicle that has been parked or left standing upon a street or
highway for seventy two (72) or more consecutive hours.
   (B)   Any vehicle which is parked or left standing upon a street or highway
between the hours of seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. and seven o'clock (7:00) P.M.
when such parking or standing is prohibited by ordinance or resolution of the
City and signs are posted giving notice of such removal.
   (C)   Any vehicle which is parked or left standing upon a street or highway
where the use of such street or highway or a portion thereof is necessary for
the cleaning, repair or construction of the street or highway, or for the
installation of underground utilities, or where the use of the street or
highway or any portion thereof is authorized for a purpose other than the
normal flow of traffic, or where the use of the street or highway or any
portion thereof is necessary for the movement of equipment, articles or
structures of unusual size and the parking of such vehicle would prohibit or
interfere with such use or movement; provided, that signs giving notice that
such vehicle may be removed are erected or placed at least twenty four (24)
hours prior to the removal.
   (D)   In the event a vehicle is removed, the Police Department shall
promptly give notice to the legal and registered owner as required by the
California Vehicle Code. Any party claiming an interest in the vehicle shall
have the right to request an immediate hearing before the Chief of Police on
the question of whether or not there are adequate facts to support the removal
of the vehicle. If the seizure of the vehicle is not supported by adequate
facts or if the owner establishes, by affidavit, ownership and inability to pay
the lien charges, the vehicle shall be returned to the owner upon satisfactory
proof of ownership. Any person may, within ten (10) days, appeal the decision
of the Chief of Police to the City Council by a written notice filed with the
City Clerk requesting a hearing before the City Council. (Ord. 651-97, 2-18-
1997)
9-2-4: TRAFFIC ACCIDENT REPORT:
The Chief of Police shall maintain a suitable system of filing traffic accident
reports. Such reports shall be available for the use and information of the
City Engineer. (Ord. 651-97, 2-18-1997)
9-2-5: TRAFFIC SAFETY REPORT:
The Chief of Police shall annually prepare a traffic report which shall be
filed with the City Council. Such a report shall contain information on traffic
matters in the City as follows:
   (A)   The number of traffic accidents, the number of persons killed, the
number of persons injured, and other pertinent traffic accident data;
   (B)   The number of traffic accidents investigated and other pertinent data
on the safety activities of the police;
   (C)   The plans and recommendations of the Police Department for future
traffic safety activities. (Ord. 651-97, 2-18-1997)
CHAPTER 3
ADMINISTRATION - CITY ENGINEER 1
SECTION:
9-3-1: Powers And Duties
9-3-2: Traffic-Control Device Installation And Maintenance
9-3-3: Street Name Sign Installation
9-3-4: Lane Marking
9-3-5: One-Way Sign Installation
9-3-6: Stop Sign Erection
9-3-7: Right-Of-Way Sign Erection
9-3-8: Crosswalk Establishment
9-3-9: Shrubbery Removal
9-3-10: Emergency Sign Duties
9-3-11: Parking Space Markings
 
Notes
  1. For statutory provisions authorizing local authorities to place and
  maintain traffic-control devices as required by statute or as necessary to
1 implement statutes or local ordinances see Veh. Code § 21351 et seq. The term
  "City Engineer" shall refer to the City Engineer or a designated
  representative thereof.
9-3-1: POWERS AND DUTIES:
It shall be the general duty of the City Engineer to recommend to the City
Council the installation and proper timing of traffic- control devices and
signals, to conduct engineering analysis of traffic accidents and to devise
remedial measures, to conduct engineering and traffic investigations of traffic
conditions and to cooperate with other City officials in the development of
ways and means to improve traffic conditions, and to carry out the additional
powers and duties imposed by ordinances of the City. Whenever, by the
provisions of this Title, a power is granted to the City Engineer or a duty
imposed upon him, the power may be exercised or the duty performed by his
deputy or by a person authorized by him. (Ord. 651-97, 2-18-1997)
9-3-2: TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICE INSTALLATION AND MAINTENANCE:
It shall be the duty of the City Engineer to install and maintain such signals,
signs, turning markers, meters, markings and other appropriate devices for the
control of vehicular and pedestrian traffic at such places and in such areas as
shall be designated from time to time by the City Council. (Ord. 651-97, 2-18-
1997)
9-3-3: STREET NAME SIGN INSTALLATION:
Whenever an official traffic signal is installed at any intersection, the City
Engineer shall likewise erect and maintain at such intersection street name
signs clearly visible to traffic approaching from all directions unless such
street name signs have previously been placed and are maintained at any said
intersection. (Ord. 651-97, 2-18-1997)
9-3-4: LANE MARKING:
The City Engineer is authorized to mark center lines and lane lines upon the
surface of the roadway to indicate the course to be traveled by vehicles and
may place signs temporarily designating lanes to be used by traffic moving in a
particular direction, regardless of the center line of the highway. (Ord. 651-
97, 2-18-1997)
9-3-5: ONE-WAY SIGN INSTALLATION:
Whenever any ordinance or resolution of the City designates any one-way street
or alley, the City Engineer shall place and maintain signs giving notice
thereof, and no such regulations shall be effective unless such signs are in
place. Signs indicating the direction of lawful traffic movement shall be
placed at every intersection where movement of traffic in the opposite
direction is prohibited. (Ord. 651-97, 2-18-1997)
9-3-6: STOP SIGN ERECTION:
Whenever any ordinance or resolution of the City designates and describes any
street or portion thereof as a through street, or any intersection at which
vehicles are required to stop at one or more entrances thereto, the City
Engineer shall erect and maintain stop signs as follows:
A stop sign shall be erected on each and every street intersecting such through
street or portion thereof so designated and at those entrances to other
intersections where a stop is required; provided, however, stop signs shall not
be erected or maintained at any entrance to an intersection when such entrance
is controlled by an official traffic-control signal. Every such sign shall
conform with, and shall be placed as provided in, the Vehicle Code. (Ord. 651-
97, 2-18-1997)
9-3-7: RIGHT-OF-WAY SIGN ERECTION:
Whenever any ordinance or resolution of the City designates and describes any
intersection so as to assign the right of way, but where the stop sign is
unduly restrictive, a yield right-of-way sign shall be installed. (Ord. 651-97,
2-18-1997)
9-3-8: CROSSWALK ESTABLISHMENT:
   (A)   The City Engineer may establish, designate and maintain crosswalks at
intersections and other places by appropriate devices, marks or lines upon the
surface of the roadway as follows:
Crosswalks shall be established and maintained at all intersections within the
Central Traffic District and at such intersections outside such District, and
at such other places within or outside said District as the City Council shall
from time to time determine.
   (B)   Other than crosswalks at intersections, no crosswalk shall be
established in any block which is less than four hundred feet (400') in length
and such crosswalk shall be located as nearly as practicable at midblock.
   (C)   The City Engineer may place signs at or adjacent to an intersection in
respect to any crosswalk directing that pedestrians shall not cross in the
crosswalk so indicated. (Ord. 651-97, 2-18-1997)
9-3-9: SHRUBBERY REMOVAL:
Whenever the City Engineer finds that any hedge, shrubbery or tree growing in a
parkway obstructs the view of any intersection or any traffic upon the streets
approaching such intersection, he shall cause the hedge, shrubbery or tree to
be immediately removed or reduced in height. (Ord. 651-97, 2-18-1997)
9-3-10: EMERGENCY SIGN DUTIES:
Whenever the City Engineer determines that an emergency traffic congestion is
likely to result from the holding of public or private assemblages, gatherings,
or functions, or for other reasons, the City Engineer shall have power and
authority to order temporary signs to be erected or posted indicating that the
operation, parking or standing of vehicles is prohibited on such streets and
alleys as the City Engineer shall direct during the time such temporary signs
are in place. Such signs shall remain in place only during the existence of
such emergency and the City Engineer shall cause such signs to be removed
promptly thereafter. (Ord. 651-97, 2-18-1997)
9-3-11: PARKING SPACE MARKINGS:
The City Engineer is authorized to install and maintain parking space markings
to indicate parking spaces adjacent to curbings where authorized parking is
permitted. (Ord. 651-97, 2-18-1997)
CHAPTER 4
OFFICIALS - OBEDIENCE
SECTION:
9-4-1: Compliance To Official Orders
9-4-2: Obstruction Or Interference With Police Or Authorized Officers
9-4-3: Public Employees To Obey Traffic Regulations
9-4-1: COMPLIANCE TO OFFICIAL ORDERS:
No person shall fail or refuse to comply with or to perform any act forbidden
by any lawful order, signal, or direction of a traffic or police officer or a
member of the Fire Department or a person authorized by the Chief of Police or
by law. (Ord. 651-97, 2-18-1997)
9-4-2: OBSTRUCTION OR INTERFERENCE WITH POLICE OR AUTHORIZED OFFICERS:
No person shall interfere with or obstruct in any way any police officer or
other officer or employee of the City in his enforcement of the provisions of
this Title. The removal, obliteration or concealment of any chalk mark or other
distinguishing mark used by any police officer or other employee or officer of
the City in connection with the enforcement of the parking regulations of this
Title, if done for the purpose of evading the provisions of this Title,
constitutes such interference or obstruction. (Ord. 651-97, 2-18-1997)
9-4-3: PUBLIC EMPLOYEES TO OBEY TRAFFIC REGULATIONS:
The provisions of this Title shall apply to the operator of any vehicle owned
by or used in the service of the United States government, the State, any
county or city. It is unlawful for any said operator to violate any of the
provisions of this Title except as otherwise permitted in this Title or by the
Vehicle Code. (Ord. 651-97, 2-18-1997)
CHAPTER 5
REPORTS
SECTION:
9-5-1: Damage To Certain Property - Report Required
9-5-2: Report Contents
9-5-3: Inability To Make Report
9-5-1: DAMAGE TO CERTAIN PROPERTY - REPORT REQUIRED:
The operator of a vehicle or the person in charge of any animal involved in any
accident resulting in damage to any property publicly owned or owned by a
public utility, including, but not limited to, any fire hydrant, lighting post,
telephone pole, electric light or power pole, or resulting in damage to any
tree, traffic-control device or other property of a like nature located in or
along any street, shall within twenty four (24) hours after such accident make
a written report of such accident to the Police Department of the City. (Ord.
651-97, 2-18-1997)
9-5-2: REPORT CONTENTS:
Every such report referred to in Section
9-5-1 of this Chapter shall state the time when and the place where the
accident took place, the name and address of the person owning and of the
person operating or in charge of such vehicle or animal, the license number of
every such vehicle, and shall briefly describe the property damage in such
accident. (Ord. 651-97, 2-18-1997)
9-5-3: INABILITY TO MAKE REPORT:
The operator of any vehicle involved in an accident is not subject to the
requirements or penalties of this Chapter if and during the time he is
physically incapable of making a report, but in such event he shall make a
report as required in Section
9-5-1 of this Chapter within twenty four (24) hours after regaining ability to
make such report. (Ord. 651-97, 2-18-1997)
CHAPTER 6
GENERAL REGULATIONS
SECTION:
9-6-1: Application To Bicycle Or Animal Riders
9-6-2: Traffic-Control Signs Required
9-6-3: Unauthorized Curb Painting
9-6-4: Crosswalk Use Required
9-6-1: APPLICATION TO BICYCLE OR ANIMAL RIDERS:
Every person riding a bicycle or riding or driving an animal upon a highway has
all of the rights and shall be subject to all of the duties applicable to the
driver of a vehicle by this Title, except those provisions which by their very
nature can have no application. (Ord. 651-97, 2-18-1997)
9-6-2: TRAFFIC-CONTROL SIGNS REQUIRED:
No provision of the Vehicle Code or of this Code for which signs are required
shall be enforced against an alleged violator unless appropriate legible signs
are in place giving notice of such provisions of the traffic laws. (Ord. 651-
97, 2-18-1997)
9-6-3: UNAUTHORIZED CURB PAINTING:
No person, unless authorized by the City, shall paint any street or curb
surface; provided, however, that this Section shall not apply to the painting
of numbers on a curb surface by any person who has complied with the provisions
of any resolution or ordinance of the City pertaining thereto. (Ord. 651-97, 2-
18-1997)
9-6-4: CROSSWALK USE REQUIRED:
   (A)   When within a business district, no pedestrian shall cross a roadway
other than by a crosswalk.
   (B)   Outside of a business district no pedestrian shall cross a roadway
other than by route at right angles to the curb and when crossing at any place
other than a crosswalk, shall yield the right of way to all vehicles upon the
roadway.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to be in any roadway other than in
a safety zone or crosswalk, provided that this provision shall not be construed
to prevent the necessary use of a roadway by a pedestrian.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any person to stand in a roadway for the
purpose of or while soliciting a ride from the operator of any vehicle. (Ord.
651-97, 2-18-1997)
CHAPTER 7
VEHICLE REGULATIONS
SECTION:
9-7-1: Right Turn Against Red Light
9-7-2: Emerging From Alley, Driveway Or Building
9-7-3: Yield Sign Compliance
9-7-4: Obstructing Traffic
9-7-5: Commercial Vehicles Using Private Driveways (Rep. by Ord. 652-97, 3-18-
1997)
9-7-6: Riding Or Driving On Sidewalk
9-7-7: Driving Through Funeral Procession Or Parade
9-7-8: Clinging To Moving Vehicle
9-7-9: Driving Over New Pavement And Markings
9-7-10: Obedience To Barriers And Signs
9-7-11: Limited Access
9-7-12: Certain Vehicles Prohibited In Central Traffic District
9-7-13: Advertising Vehicles
9-7-14: Animaldrawn Vehicles (Rep. by Ord. 652-97, 3-18-1997)
9-7-15: Motor Vehicles On Public Property
9-7-16: Exemption Of Certain Vehicles
9-7-17: Operation Of Vehicles On Certain Public Property Prohibited
9-7-18: Operating Vehicles On Private Property Prohibited
9-7-19: Spark Arrester(s) And Muffler(s) Required
9-7-20: Operating As A Nuisance
9-7-21: Angle Parking
9-7-22: Truck Routes Established
9-7-1: RIGHT TURN AGAINST RED LIGHT:
No driver of a vehicle shall make a right turn against a red or stop signal at
any intersection which is sign posted giving notice of such restriction. (Ord.
651-97, 2-18-1997)
9-7-2: EMERGING FROM ALLEY, DRIVEWAY OR BUILDING:
The driver of a vehicle emerging from an alley, driveway or building shall stop
such vehicle immediately prior to driving onto a sidewalk or into the sidewalk
area extending across any alleyway or driveway. (Ord. 651-97, 2-18-1997)
9-7-3: YIELD SIGN COMPLIANCE:
A driver approaching a yield sign may proceed across the intersection,
providing no traffic is approaching on the cross street close enough to
constitute a hazard. (Ord. 651-97, 2-18-1997)
9-7-4: OBSTRUCTING TRAFFIC:
No operator of any vehicle shall enter any intersection or a marked crosswalk
unless there is sufficient space on the other side of the intersection or
crosswalk to accommodate the vehicle he is operating without obstructing the
passage of other vehicles or pedestrians, notwithstanding any traffic control
signal indication to proceed. (Ord. 651-97, 2-18-1997)
9-7-5: COMMERCIAL VEHICLES USING PRIVATE DRIVEWAYS:
(Rep. by Ord. 652-97, 3-18-1997)
9-7-6: RIDING OR DRIVING ON SIDEWALK:
No person shall ride, drive, propel, or cause to be propelled any vehicle or
animal across or upon any sidewalk excepting over permanently constructed
driveways and excepting when it is necessary for any temporary purpose to drive
a loaded vehicle across a sidewalk, provided further, that said sidewalk area
is substantially protected by wooden planks two inches (2") thick, and written
permission is previously obtained from the city engineer. Such wooden planks
shall not be permitted to remain upon such sidewalk area during the hours from
six o'clock (6:00) P.M. to six o'clock (6:00) A.M. (Ord. 651-97, 2-18-1997)
9-7-7: DRIVING THROUGH FUNERAL PROCESSION OR PARADE:
No operator of any vehicle shall drive between the vehicles comprising a
funeral procession or a parade, provided that such vehicles are conspicuously
so designated. The directing of all vehicles and traffic on any street over
which such funeral procession or parade wishes to pass shall be subject to the
orders of the police department. (Ord. 651-97, 2-18-1997)
9-7-8: CLINGING TO MOVING VEHICLE:
No person shall attach himself with his hands, or catch on, or hold on to with
his hands or by other means, to any moving vehicle or train for the purpose of
receiving motive power therefrom. (Ord. 651-97, 2-18-1997)
9-7-9: DRIVING OVER NEW PAVEMENT AND MARKINGS:
No person shall ride or drive any animal or any vehicle over or across any
newly made pavement or freshly painted markings in any street when a barrier
sign, cone marker or other warning device is in place warning persons not to
drive over or across such pavement or marking, or when any such device is in
place indicating that the street or any portion thereof is closed. (Ord. 651-
97, 2-18-1997)
9-7-10: OBEDIENCE TO BARRIERS AND SIGNS:
No person, public utility or department in the City shall erect or place any
barrier or sign on any street unless of a type approved by the City Engineer or
disobey the instructions, remove, tamper with or destroy any barrier or sign
lawfully placed on any street by any person, public utility or by any
department of the City. (Ord. 651-97, 2-18-1997)
9-7-11: LIMITED ACCESS:
No person shall drive a vehicle onto or from any limited access roadway except
at such entrances and exits as are lawfully established. (Ord. 651-97, 2-18-
1997)
9-7-12: CERTAIN VEHICLES PROHIBITED IN CENTRAL TRAFFIC DISTRICT:
   (A)   No person shall operate any of the following vehicles in the Central
Traffic District between the hours of seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. and six o'clock
(6:00) P.M. of any day:
      1.   Any freight vehicle more than eight and one-half feet (81/2') in
width, with load, or any freight vehicle so loaded that any part of its load
extends more than twenty feet (20') to the front or rear of said vehicle;
      2.   Any vehicle carrying building material that has not been loaded, or
is not to be unloaded, for some point within the Central Traffic District;
   (B)   Provided that the City Engineer may by written permit charged in the
Master Fee Schedule authorize the operation of any such vehicle for the purpose
of making necessary emergency deliveries to or from points within the Central
Traffic District. (Ord. 651-97, 2-18-1997)
9-7-13: ADVERTISING VEHICLES:
No person shall operate or drive any vehicle used for advertising purposes or
any advertising vehicle equipped with a sound- amplifying or loudspeaking
device upon any street or alley within the Central Traffic District without a
permit listed in the Master Fee Schedule from the City Engineer. (Ord. 651-97,
2-18-1997)
9-7-14: ANIMAL-DRAWN VEHICLES:
(Rep. by Ord. 652-97, 3-18-1997)
9-7-15: MOTOR VEHICLES ON PUBLIC PROPERTY:
   (A)   Prohibited: Except as excluded herein, no person shall drive any self-
propelled motor vehicle on any public property within the City unless such
property has been improved or designated for the specific purpose of providing
for the passage or parking of self-propelled motor vehicles.
"Public property" as used in this Section means any property owned by the
United States of America, the State, the County, or the City or of any
department or division thereof.
   (B)   Exceptions: The provisions of this Section do not apply to any vehicle
owned by any governmental agency or of any public utility corporation when such
vehicle is being used to carry out the regular duties of such agency or
utility, and do not apply to golf carts when being used on a public golf
course. (Ord. 651-97, 2-18-1997)
9-7-16: EXEMPTION OF CERTAIN VEHICLES:
   (A)   The provisions of this Title regulating the operation, parking and
standing of vehicles shall not apply to vehicles operated by the Police or Fire
Department, any public ambulance or any public utility vehicle or any private
ambulance, which public utility vehicle or private ambulance has qualified as
an authorized emergency vehicle, when any vehicle mentioned in this Section is
operated in the manner specified by the Vehicle Code in response to an
emergency call.
   (B)   The foregoing exemptions shall not, however, relieve the operator of
any such vehicle from obligation to exercise due care for the safety of others
or the consequences of his wilful disregard of the safety of others.
   (C)   The provisions of this title regulating the parking or standing of
vehicles shall not apply to any vehicle of a city department or public utility
while necessarily in use for construction or repair work or any vehicle owned
or operated by the United States post office department while in use for the
collection, transportation or delivery of United States mail. (Ord. 651-97, 2-
18-1997)
9-7-17: OPERATION OF VEHICLES ON CERTAIN PUBLIC PROPERTY PROHIBITED:
No person shall operate or drive a motor vehicle, motorcycle, minibike, trail
bike, dune buggy, motor scooter, jeep or other form of powered transportation
upon any public property which is not held open to the public for vehicular use
and which is not subject to the provisions of the Vehicle Code except for
emergency vehicles, the vehicles of governmental agencies and public utilities
and the vehicles of persons holding a written permit from the city manager or
his designated representative. Such permits will be specific in identifying
approved dates and hours of operation within the authorized period to include
an exact expiration date. The permit will also contain any additional
instructions deemed appropriate for the property or area being authorized by
the city manager. (Ord. 651-97, 2-18-1997)
9-7-18: OPERATING VEHICLES ON PRIVATE PROPERTY PROHIBITED:
No person shall operate or drive a motor vehicle, motorcycle, minibike, trail
bike, dune buggy, motor scooter, jeep or other form of powered transportation
upon the private property of another which is not held open to the public for
vehicular use, and which is not subject to the provisions of the Vehicle Code
except for emergency vehicles, the vehicles of governmental agencies or public
utilities and to persons or vehicles driving upon such property without the
written consent of the owner or person in lawful possession of such property.
Such written consent shall be displayed upon request of a peace officer and
shall contain as a minimum: the name and address of person to whom permit is
issued; any restrictions as to days or hours of operation; designation of a
definite expiration date, which will be automatically six (6) months from date
of issue if none is so designated; and signature of property owner or person in
lawful possession of such property. (Ord. 651-97, 2-18-1997)
9-7-19: SPARK ARRESTER(S) AND MUFFLER(S) REQUIRED:
No person shall operate or drive a motor vehicle, motorcycle, minibike, trail
bike, dune buggy, motor scooter, jeep or other form of powered transportation
upon any vacant lot, parking lot, vacant property or acreage within the city
unless such vehicle is at all times equipped with an adequate spark arrester(s)
and muffler(s) in constant operation and properly maintained so as to meet the
requirements of the Vehicle Code (section 38280) of the state, as the same now
exists or may hereafter be amended, and no muffler(s) or exhaust system(s)
shall be equipped with a cutout, bypass, or similar device. (Ord. 651-97, 2-18-
1997)
9-7-20: OPERATING AS A NUISANCE:
No person shall operate or drive a motor vehicle, motorcycle, minibike, trail
bike, dune buggy, motor scooter, jeep or other form of powered transportation
in such a manner as to disturb the peace and quiet of any neighborhood or
person by noise, dust, smoke, fumes or other cause arising out of the operation
of such vehicle. (Ord. 651-97, 2-18-1997)
9-7-21: ANGLE PARKING:
The city may, by ordinance or resolution, designate alleys, streets, or
portions thereof, where angle parking is permitted. No such designation shall
be effective until such time as parking space markings are installed pursuant
to section
9-3-11 of this title. (Ord. 651-97, 2-18-1997)
9-7-22: TRUCK ROUTES ESTABLISHED:
   (A)   There are established through traffic routes for the movement of
vehicles having a manufacturer's gross vehicle rating of eleven thousand five
hundred (11,500) pounds or more designed for carrying merchandise, freight or
material, as follows:
"A" Street
Highway 33
Highway 119
Sixth Street
10th Street
   (B)   Points of beginning and of termination of the above named vehicle
routes are descriptive only and not indicative of direction of travel.
   (C)   When such truck routes are designated by appropriate signs, the
operator of any vehicle having a manufacturer's gross vehicle weight rating of
eleven thousand five hundred (11,500) pounds or over shall drive on such routes
and none other, except when necessary to traverse another street or streets to
destinations for the purpose of loading or unloading merchandise, freight or
materials, but then only by such deviation from the nearest truck route as is
reasonably necessary. The operator or owner of any such vehicle shall not park
or permit such vehicle to be parked along any street within the city, including
designated truck routes, except when necessary to park for the purpose of
loading or unloading merchandise, freight or materials, and then only to the
extent such parking is reasonably necessary.
   (D)   This section shall have no application to any vehicle which is subject
to sections 1031 to 1036, inclusive, of the Public Utilities Code of the state;
or to vehicles operated by the federal government or the state, or any agency,
department, political subdivision or municipal corporation thereof; or to
vehicles of a public utility while necessarily in use in the construction,
installation or repair of any public utility.
   (E)   The provisions of this section shall not be effective with respect to
recreational vehicles or any recreational trailers accessing or leaving places
of residence. (Ord. 706-03, 8-19-2003)
CHAPTER 8
SPEED LIMITS
SECTION:
9-8-1: Streets Designated
9-8-1: STREETS DESIGNATED:
The prima facie speed limit shall be as set forth in this Section on those
streets or portions thereof designated in this Section when signs are erected
giving notice thereof.
                      Speed Limit    (mph)
Street    Location
                                                       Speed Limit    (mph)
Street                Location
                   South City limits to Main Street   35
4th Street                                            
                   Kern Street to Ash Street          30
6th Street         Oak Street to Ash Street              35
10th Street        A Street to Ash Street                35
Kern Street        State Highway 119 to Airport Road     35
Airport Road       Kern Street to 230 feet east of       35
                   Woodrow Street
Gardner Field Road State Highway 119 to 300 feet east    35
                   of Industrial Way
                   State Highway 119 to 2nd Street       35
Main Street                                           
                   2nd Street to 10th Street             25
(Ord. 651-97, 2-18-1997)
CHAPTER 9
STOPPING, STANDING OR PARKING 1
SECTION:
9-9-1: Title Application
9-9-2: In Parkways
9-9-3: No Parking Areas
9-9-4: Parking In Alleys Prohibited
9-9-5: Prohibited Area, Designation
9-9-6: Limited Time Parking
9-9-7: Seventy Two Hour Parking Limitation
9-9-8: Parking To Sell Vehicle
9-9-9: Repairing Or Greasing Vehicles On Public Streets
9-9-10: Parking On Grades
9-9-11: Display Of Warning Devices - When Commercial Vehicle Disabled
9-9-12: Parking Space Markings
9-9-13: Curb Markings
9-9-14: Effect Of Permission To Load Or Unload
9-9-15: Standing For Loading Or Unloading Only
9-9-16: In Passenger Loading Zone
9-9-17: In Alley
9-9-18: For A Limited Time
9-9-19: Parking On One-Way Streets
9-9-20: Angle Parking
9-9-21: Stopping Prohibited In Designated Areas
9-9-22: All Night Parking Prohibited
9-9-23: Truck Parking Zone Established
 
Notes
1 1. Veh.C. § 22500 et seq.
9-9-1: TITLE APPLICATION:
   (A)   The provisions of this title prohibiting the stopping, standing or
parking of a vehicle shall apply at all times or at those times specified in
this title, except when it is necessary to stop a vehicle to avoid conflict
with other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a police officer or
official traffic control device.
   (B)   The provisions of this title imposing a time limit on standing or
parking shall not relieve any person from the duty to observe other and more
restrictive provisions of the Vehicle Code or the ordinances of the city
prohibiting or limiting the standing or parking of vehicles in specified places
or at specified times. (Ord. 651-97, 2-18-1997)
9-9-2: IN PARKWAYS:
No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle within any parkway. (Ord. 651-97,
2-18-1997)
9-9-3: NO PARKING AREAS:
No operator of any vehicle shall stop, stand, park, or leave standing such
vehicle in any of the following places, except when necessary to avoid conflict
with other traffic or in compliance with the direction of a police officer or
other authorized officer, or traffic sign or signal:
   (A)   Within any divisional island unless authorized and clearly indicated
with appropriate signs or markings;
   (B)   On either side of any street between the projected property lines of
any public walk, public steps, street, or thoroughfare terminating at such
street, when such area is indicated by appropriate signs or by red paint upon
the curb surface;
   (C)   In an area duly established as a no parking area, when such area is
indicated by appropriate signs or by red paint upon the curb surface;
   (D)   In any area where the parking or stopping of any vehicle would
constitute a traffic hazard or would endanger life or property;
   (E)   On any street or highway where the use of such street or highway or a
portion thereof is necessary for the cleaning, repair or construction of the
street or highway, or the installation of underground utilities, or where the
use of the street or highway or any portion thereof is authorized for a purpose
other than the normal flow of traffic, or where the use of the street or
highway or any portion thereof is necessary for the movement of equipment
articles or structures of unusual size and the parking of such vehicle would
prohibit or interfere with such use of movement, provided that signs giving
notice of such no parking are erected or placed at least twenty four (24) hours
prior to the effective time of such no parking;
   (F)   At any place within twenty feet (20') of a point on the curb
immediately opposite the mid-block end of a safety zone, when such place is
indicated by appropriate signs or by red paint upon the curb surface;
   (G)   At any place within twenty feet (20') of a crosswalk at an
intersection (in the central traffic district or) in any business district when
such place is indicated by appropriate signs or by red paint upon the curb
surface except that a bus may stop at a designated bus stop;
   (H)   Within twenty feet (20') of the approach to any traffic signal,
boulevard stop sign, or official electric flashing device; (Ord. 651-97, 2-18-
1997)
   (I)   Within five feet (5') on either side of a fire hydrant when measured
along the curb or edge of the street when such distance is indicated by signs
or marking except as follows:
      1.   If the vehicle is attended by a licensed driver who is seated in the
front seat and who can immediately move such vehicle in case of necessity.
      2.   If the vehicle is owned or operated by a fire department or police
department or sheriff's department and is clearly marked as a fire, police, or
sheriff's department vehicle. (Ord. 672-99, 10-5-1999)
9-9-4: PARKING IN ALLEYS PROHIBITED:
Vehicles shall not be parked in public alleys; provided, that commercial
vehicles may be parked in public alleys not longer than necessary to load and
unload, and when so parked, such vehicle shall be as close to one side of such
alley as possible so as to permit other vehicles to pass. Double-parking is
hereby prohibited on any alley 1 . (Ord. 651-97, 2-18-1997)
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  9-9-17 of this chapter.
9-9-5: PROHIBITED AREA, DESIGNATION:
No person shall stop, stand, or park any vehicle on any publicly owned property
where stopping, standing, or parking in any such area is prohibited or
restricted by resolution of the city council. The city council may from time to
time by resolution determine when stopping, standing, or parking of any vehicle
on any publicly owned property is prohibited. The director of public works
shall erect and maintain signs as provided by law in such areas and for such
hours where stopping, standing, or parking of a vehicle is prohibited or
restricted by resolution. (Ord. 651-97, 2-18-1997)
9-9-6: LIMITED-TIME PARKING:
The city council may, from time to time, by resolution of the majority of the
entire council, designate limited-time parking on any street and on any public
property of the city. (Ord. 651-97, 2-18-1997)
9-9-7: SEVENTY TWO HOUR PARKING LIMITATION:
No person who owns or has possession, custody or control of any vehicle or any
recreational vehicle or any recreational trailer shall park or leave such
vehicle standing upon any street or alley for more than a consecutive period of
seventy two (72) hours except as provided in subsection (D) of this section or
for a cumulative total of more than ninety six (96) hours in any thirty (30)
consecutive day period.
The driving or moving of any vehicle or any recreational vehicle or any
recreational trailer from one parking space to another in the same time-
restricted street, alley or portion thereof, or other street or alley in the
city within two thousand feet (2,000') of the location where the vehicle had
been parked shall not be deemed a defense to the time limitations imposed by
this code. This section is intended to prevent persons who own or have
possession, custody or control of any vehicle or any recreational vehicle or
any recreational trailer from periodically moving the vehicle from space to
space on the same street or alley, or to a space on a street or alley within a
two thousand foot (2,000') radius of where the vehicle or recreational vehicle
or recreational trailer had been parked or standing, thus defeating the purpose
and intent of the timed parking restrictions in this code, which are to prevent
the long-term storage of vehicles on streets and alleys within the city.
   (A)   No vehicle or "recreational vehicle" or "recreational trailer", as
defined in this section, shall be parked or left standing upon a city street
for seventy two (72) or more consecutive hours except as provided in subsection
(D) of this section or for a cumulative total of more than ninety six (96)
hours in any thirty (30) consecutive day period. The city police are hereafter
authorized to cite any vehicle or recreational vehicle or recreational trailer
parked or left standing in violation hereof to carry out the provisions of and
the intent of this section.
In the event that a vehicle is not moved within seventy two (72) hours after
notice has been given by the police department to move the vehicle, the police
department may tow and store the vehicle at the expense of the owner of said
vehicle pursuant to section 22651(k) of the California Vehicle Code.
   (B)   "Recreational vehicle" means any vehicle maintained for the use as a
conveyance upon the highway, capable of being propelled, carried or towed from
one place to another, so designed and constructed as to permit the use thereof
as a temporary dwelling or sleeping place for one or more persons, with built-
in cooking facilities, having no foundation other than wheels, jacks or
temporary supports. "Recreational vehicle" includes pickups with self-contained
or slide-on campers, but does not include pickups with mounted camper shells.
   (C)   "Recreational trailer" means any camping trailer and any trailer
designed for transporting boats, motorcycles, horses or other livestock, tents
and any other recreational equipment.
   (D)   Where a resident within the city has a visitor from an area other than
the city, and that visitor arrives with a recreational vehicle or recreational
trailer, the visitor may park the recreational vehicle or recreational trailer
in the street adjacent to the host residence for not more than seven (7)
consecutive days, providing that the parking room is available there, that
parking the recreational vehicle or trailer does not constitute a safety
hazard, and that the police department has been notified.
   (E)   Should notification not be provided to the police department as set
forth in subsection (D) of this section, then the recreational vehicle shall
comply with the provisions of subsection (A) of this section. (Ord. 683-01, 3-
20-2001)
9-9-8: PARKING TO SELL VEHICLE:
No operator of any vehicle shall park the vehicle upon any street in the city
for the principal purpose of advertising or displaying it for sale, unless
authorized by resolution of the Council. (Ord. 651-97, 2-18-1997)
9-9-9: REPAIRING OR GREASING VEHICLES ON PUBLIC STREETS:
No person shall construct or cause to be constructed, repair or cause to be
repaired, grease or cause to be greased, dismantle or cause to be dismantled
any vehicle or any part thereof upon any public street in the City except for
minor repairs such as changing tires and changing spark plugs. Temporary
emergency repairs may be made upon a public street.
For the purposes of this Section, an "emergency repair" is defined as the
minimum repair necessary to cause a disabled vehicle to be removed from the
right of way under its own power without endangering the safety of the driver,
passengers or members of the public, and without creating a danger of further
damage to the vehicle. In all instances, disabled vehicles shall be removed
from the right of way within twenty four (24) hours. (Ord. 651-97, 2-18-1997)
9-9-10: PARKING ON GRADES:
No person shall park or leave standing any vehicle unattended on a highway when
upon any grade exceeding three percent (3%) within any business or residence
district without blocking the wheels of the vehicle by turning them against the
curb or by other means. (Ord. 651-97, 2-18-1997)
9-9-11: DISPLAY OF WARNING DEVICES - WHEN COMMERCIAL VEHICLE DISABLED:
Every motor truck having an unladen weight of four thousand (4,000) pounds or
more, and every truck tractor irrespective of weight when operated upon any
street or highway during darkness shall be equipped with and carry at least two
(2) flares or two (2) red lanterns or two (2) warning lights or reflectors. The
reflectors shall be a type approved by the Department of California Highway
Patrol. When any such vehicle or any trailer or semi-trailer is disabled upon
streets or highways outside of any business or residence district within the
City and upon which street or highway there is insufficient street lighting to
reveal a vehicle at a distance of two hundred feet (200') during darkness, a
warning signal of the character indicated in this Section shall be immediately
placed at a distance of approximately one hundred feet (100') in advance of,
and one hundred feet (100') to the rear of, such disabled vehicle by the driver
thereof. The continuous flashing of at least four (4) approved class A-type I
turn signal lamps, at least two (2) toward the front and at least two (2)
toward the rear of the vehicle, shall be considered to meet the requirements of
this Section until the devices mentioned above can be placed in the required
locations. The warning signals herein mentioned shall be displayed continuously
during darkness while such vehicle remains disabled upon such street or
highway. (Ord. 651-97, 2-18-1997)
9-9-12: PARKING SPACE MARKINGS:
When parking space markings are placed on the highway, subject to other and
more restrictive limitations, no vehicle shall be stopped, left standing or
parked other than within a single space unless the size or shape of such
vehicle makes compliance impossible. (Ord. 651-97, 2-18-1997)
9-9-13: CURB MARKINGS:
The City Engineer is authorized, subject to the provisions and limitations of
this Title, to place, and when required herein shall place, the following curb
markings to indicate parking or standing regulations, and the curb markings
shall have the meanings as set forth in this Section:
   (A)   Red means no stopping, standing or parking at any time except as
permitted by the Vehicle Code, and except that a bus may stop in a red zone
marked or signed as a bus zone.
   (B)   Yellow means no stopping, standing or parking at any time between nine
o'clock (9:00) A.M. and six o'clock (6:00) P.M. of any day except Sundays and
holidays for any purpose other than the loading or unloading of passengers or
materials; provided that the loading or unloading of passengers shall not
consume more than three (3) minutes nor the loading or unloading of materials
more than twenty (20) minutes.
   (C)   White means no stopping, standing or parking for any purpose other
than loading or unloading of passengers, or for the purpose of depositing mail
in an adjacent mail box, which shall not exceed three (3) minutes and such
restrictions shall apply between nine o'clock (9:00) A.M. and six o'clock (6:
00) P.M. of any day except Sundays and holidays and except as follows:
      1.   When such zone is in front of a hotel or in front of a mailbox the
restrictions shall apply at all times;
      2.   When such zone is in front of a theater the restrictions shall apply
at all times except when such theater is closed.
   (D)   Green curb marking means no standing or parking for a period of time
longer than twenty four (24) minutes at any time between nine o'clock (9:00)
A.M. and six o'clock (6:00) P.M. on any day except Sundays and holidays. (Ord.
651-97, 2-18-1997)
9-9-14: EFFECT OF PERMISSION TO LOAD OR UNLOAD:
   (A)   Permission granted in this Chapter to stop or stand a vehicle for
purposes of loading or unloading of materials applies only to commercial
vehicles and does not extend beyond the time necessary therefor, and in no
event for more than twenty (20) minutes.
   (B)   The loading or unloading of materials applies only to commercial
deliveries, also the delivery or pickup of express and parcel post packages and
United States mail.
   (C)   Permission granted in this Chapter to stop or park for purposes of
loading or unloading passengers includes the loading or unloading of personal
baggage but does not extend beyond the time necessary therefor and in no event
for more than three (3) minutes.
   (D)   Within the total time limits specified in this Section the provisions
of this Section shall be enforced so as to accommodate necessary and reasonable
loading or unloading but without permitting abuse of the privileges hereby
granted. (Ord. 651-97, 2-18-1997)
9-9-15: STANDING FOR LOADING OR UNLOADING ONLY:
No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle in any yellow loading zone for
any purpose other than loading or unloading passengers or material for such
time as is permitted in subsection
9-9-13(B) of this Chapter. (Ord. 651-97, 2-18-1997)
9-9-16: IN PASSENGER LOADING ZONE:
No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle in any passenger loading zone for
any purpose other than the loading or unloading of passengers for such time as
is specified in subsection
9-9-13(C) of this Chapter. (Ord. 651-97, 2-18-1997)
9-9-17: IN ALLEY:
No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle for any purpose other than the
loading or unloading of persons or materials in any alley 1 . (Ord. 651-97, 2-
18-1997)
 
Notes
1 1. See Section
  9-9-4 of this Chapter.
9-9-18: FOR A LIMITED TIME:
When authorized signs or curb markings are in place giving notice that parking
in a given area is restricted to a limited period of time, no operator of any
vehicle shall stop, stand or park said vehicle between the hours of nine
o'clock (9:00) A.M. and six o'clock (6:00) P.M. of any day except Sundays and
holidays, for a period of time longer than that designated. (Ord. 651-97, 2-18-
1997)
9-9-19: PARKING ON ONE-WAY STREETS:
   (A)   Subject to other and more restrictive limitations, a vehicle may be
stopped or parked within eighteen inches (18") of the left-hand curb facing in
the direction of traffic movement upon any one-way street unless signs are in
place prohibiting such stopping or standing.
   (B)   In the event a highway includes two (2) or more separate roadways and
traffic is restricted to one direction upon any such roadway, no person shall
stand or park a vehicle upon the left- hand side of such one-way roadway unless
signs are in place permitting such standing or parking.
   (C)   The requirement of parallel parking imposed by this Section shall not
apply in the event any commercial vehicle is actually engaged in the process of
loading or unloading freight or goods, in which case such vehicle may be backed
up to the curb; provided that such vehicle does not extend beyond the center
line of the street and does not block traffic thereby. (Ord. 651-97, 2-18-1997)
9-9-20: ANGLE PARKING:
On any of the streets or portions of streets established by resolution of the
Council as angle parking zones, when signs or pavement markings are in place
indicating such angle parking, it is unlawful for the operator of any vehicle
to park said vehicle except:
   (A)   At the angle to the curb indicated by signs or pavement markings
allotting space to parked vehicles and entirely within the limits of said
allotted space;
   (B)   With the front wheel nearest the curb within six inches (6") of said
curb.
The provisions of this section shall not apply when such vehicle is actually
engaged in the process of loading or unloading passengers, freight or goods, in
which event the provisions applicable in section
9-9-13 of this chapter shall be complied with. (Ord. 651-97, 2-18-1997)
9-9-21: STOPPING PROHIBITED IN DESIGNATED AREAS:
When authorized signs are in place giving notice that stopping of vehicles is
prohibited in a designated area and indicating the hours and days when stopping
is prohibited, it is unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to stop the
vehicle in any such area during the hours and days designated on such signs.
(Ord. 651-97, 2-18-1997)
9-9-22: ALL NIGHT PARKING PROHIBITED:
No person shall park a vehicle on any street within the central traffic
district between the hours of two thirty o'clock (2:30) A.M. and five thirty
o'clock (5:30) A.M. of any day, where indicated by appropriate signs. (Ord.
651-97, 2-18-1997)
9-9-23: TRUCK PARKING ZONE ESTABLISHED:
Notwithstanding the provisions under section
9-9-7 of this chapter, no person shall park or leave standing any commercial
vehicle, having a gross vehicle weight rating of eleven thousand five hundred
(11,500) pounds or more, in or adjacent to any of the streets within the city,
except on Supply Row, between 6th Street and 10th Street. The provisions of
this section shall not be effective with respect to: a) any commercial vehicle
making a pick up or delivery of goods, wares, to or from residential areas; or
b) delivery of merchandise from or to any property, building or structure
located in the city for the purpose of delivering materials to be used in the
actual repair, alteration, remodeling or construction of any building or
structure; or c) any recreational vehicle or any recreational trailer.
Notwithstanding section
9-9-7 of this chapter, no person shall stop, stand or park a commercial trailer
or semitrailer which is uncoupled from a motor vehicle, except when actively
loading or unloading the trailer, and where unloading requires uncoupling of
the motor vehicle. (Ord. 706-03, 8-19-2003)
CHAPTER 10
RESTRICTIONS ON STATE HIGHWAYS 1
SECTION:
9-10-1: Withdrawal Of Approval Of Department Of Public Works
9-10-2: Authority Of Official Requires Approval Of Department Of Public Works
 
Notes
  1. For statutory provisions requiring submission of all local regulations
1 concerning stopping or standing of vehicles on State highways to the
  Department of Public Works, see Veh. Code §22506.
9-10-1: WITHDRAWAL OF APPROVAL OF DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS:
Any provision of this Title which regulates traffic or delegates the
regulations of traffic upon State highways in any way for which the approval of
the Department of Public Works is required by State law, shall cease to be
operative six (6) months after receipt by the City Council of written notice of
withdrawal of approval of the Department of Public Works. (Ord. 651-97, 2-18-
1997)
9-10-2: AUTHORITY OF OFFICIAL REQUIRES APPROVAL OF DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS:
Whenever this Title delegates authority to a City officer, or authorizes action
by the City Council to regulate traffic upon a State highway in any way which
by State law requires the prior approval of the California Department of
Transportation (CALTRANS), no such officer shall exercise such authority nor
shall such action by the City Council be effective with respect to any State
highway without the prior approval in writing of the California Department of
Transportation when and to the extent required by the Vehicle Code. (Ord. 651-
97, 2-18-1997)
CHAPTER 11
BICYCLES
SECTION:
9-11-1: Definitions
9-11-2: Operation Of Bicycles
9-11-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this Chapter the words set out in this Section are defined
as follows:
BICYCLE: A device upon which any person may ride, propelled exclusively by
human power through a belt, chain or gears, and having two (2) or more wheels.
The provisions of this Code are applicable to motorized bicycles.
MOTORIZED BICYCLE: Any two (2) wheeled or three (3) wheeled device having fully
operative pedals for propulsion by human power, or having no pedals if powered
solely by electrical energy, and an automatic transmission and a motor which
produces less than two (2) gross brake horsepower and is capable of propelling
the device at a maximum speed of not more than thirty (30) miles per hour on
level ground. (Ord. 651-97, 2-18-1997)
9-11-2: OPERATION OF BICYCLES:
   (A)   Equipment Requirements:
      1.   No person shall operate a bicycle on a roadway unless it is equipped
with a brake which will enable the operator to make one braked wheel skid on
dry, level, clean pavement.
      2.   No person shall operate on the highway any bicycle equipped with
handlebars so raised that the operator must elevate his hands above the level
of his shoulders in order to grasp the normal steering grip area.
      3.   No person shall operate upon any highway a bicycle which is of such
a size as to prevent the operator from safely stopping the bicycle, supporting
it in an upright position with at least one foot on the ground, and restarting
it in a safe manner.
      4.   Every bicycle operated upon any street during darkness shall be
equipped:
         (a)   With a lamp emitting a white light which, while the bicycle is
in motion, illuminates the street in front of the bicyclist and is visible from
a distance of three hundred feet (300') in front and from the sides of the
bicycle;
         (b)   With a red reflector on the rear which shall be visible from a
distance of five hundred feet (500') to the rear when directly in front of
lawful upper beams of headlamps on a motor vehicle;
         (c)   With a white or yellow reflector on each pedal visible from the
front and rear of the bicycle from a distance of two hundred feet (200'); and
         (d)   With a white or yellow reflector on each side forward of the
center of the bicycle, and with a white or red reflector on each side to the
rear of the center of the bicycle, except that bicycles which are equipped with
reflectorized tires on the front and the rear need not be equipped with these
side reflectors.
      5.   A lamp or lamp combination, emitting a white light, attached to the
operator and visible from a distance of three hundred feet (300') in front and
from the sides of the bicycle, may be used in lieu of the lamp required by
subsection (A)4(a) of this Section.
   (B)   Bicycle Not Equipped Or Unsafe: It is unlawful to operate any bicycle
which is in an unsafe condition, which is not equipped as required by this
Code, or which is not safely loaded.
   (C)   Destroying Number: No person shall wilfully or maliciously remove,
destroy, mutilate or alter the number of any bicycle frame licensed pursuant to
this Chapter.
   (D)   Destroying License Plate, Seal, Etc.: No person shall remove, destroy,
mutilate or alter any license plate, seal or registration card during the time
in which such license plate, seal or registration card is operative, provided,
however, that nothing in this subsection shall prohibit the Police Department
from stamping numbers on the frames of bicycles on which no serial number can
be found, or on which number is illegible or insufficient for identification
purposes.
   (E)   Clinging To Moving Vehicles Prohibited: No person traveling upon any
bicycle, motorcycle or any toy vehicle shall cling to or attach himself or his
vehicle to any other moving vehicle upon any roadway.
   (F)   Bicycle Riding Restricted: No person shall ride a bicycle upon any
sidewalk. The rider of a bicycle upon any roadway shall ride as nearly as
practicable within five feet (5') of the right- hand curb or edge of the
roadway, except when passing a standing or other vehicle or making a left-hand
turn at an intersection.
   (G)   Riding On Handlebars Prohibited: No operator of any bicycle or
motorcycle when upon a street shall carry any other person upon the bar,
handle, or tank of any such vehicle nor shall any person so ride on any such
bicycle or motorcycle.
   (H)   Unlawful To Drive Through Funeral Procession: No operator of any
bicycle shall drive between vehicles comprising a funeral procession.
   (I)   Operation On Roadway: Any person operating a bicycle upon a roadway at
a speed less than normal speed of traffic moving in the same direction at such
time shall ride as close as practicable to the right-hand curb or edge of the
roadway except under any of the following situations:
      1.   When overtaking and passing another bicycle or vehicle proceeding in
the same direction;
      2.   When preparing for a left turn at an intersection or into a private
road or driveway;
      3.   When reasonably necessary to avoid conditions (including, but not
limited to, fixed or moving objects, vehicles, bicycles, pedestrians, animals,
surface hazards, or substandard width lanes) that make it unsafe to continue
along the right-hand curb or edge. For purposes of this Section, a "substandard
width lane" is a lane that is too narrow for a bicycle and a vehicle to travel
safely side by side within the lane;
      4.   Any person operating a bicycle upon a roadway of this City which
roadway carries traffic in one direction only and has two (2) or more marked
traffic lanes, may ride as near the left-hand curb or edge of such roadway as
practicable.
   (J)   Carrying Articles: No person operating a bicycle shall carry any
package, bundle or article which prevents the operator from keeping at least
one hand upon the handlebars.
   (K)   Permitted Movements From Bicycle Lanes: Whenever a bicycle lane has
been established on a roadway any person operating a bicycle upon the roadway
at a speed less than the normal speed of traffic moving in the same direction
shall ride within the bicycle lane, except that such person may move out of the
lane under any of the following situations:
      1.   When overtaking and passing another bicycle, vehicle, or pedestrian
within the lane or about to enter the lane if such overtaking and passing
cannot be done safely within the lane;
      2.   When preparing for a left turn at an intersection or into a private
road or driveway;
      3.   When reasonably necessary to leave the bicycle lane to avoid debris
or other hazardous conditions. No person operating a bicycle shall leave a
bicycle lane until the movement can be made with reasonable safety and then
only after giving an appropriate signal.
   (L)   Turning Movements And Required Signals: No person shall turn a bicycle
from a direct course or move right or left upon a roadway until such movement
can be made with reasonable safety and then only after the giving of an
appropriate signal in the event any vehicle may be affected by the movement.
   (M)   Duration Of Signal: Any signal of intention to turn right or left
shall be given continuously during the last one hundred feet (100') traveled by
the bicycle before turning.
   (N)   Signal When Stopping: No person shall stop or suddenly decrease the
speed of a bicycle on a roadway without first giving an appropriate signal to
the driver of any vehicle immediately to the rear when there is opportunity to
give the signal.
   (O)   Method Of Signaling: The signals required by this Section shall be
given either by means of the hand and arm or by a signal lamp.
   (P)   Stop Requirements:
      1.   The driver of any bicycle approaching a stop sign at the entrance
to, or within, an intersection, shall stop at a limit line, if marked,
otherwise before entering the crosswalk on the near side of the intersection.
      2.   If there is no limit line or crosswalk, the driver shall stop at the
entrance to the intersection roadway.
   (Q)   Speed: No person shall ride a bicycle upon a roadway at a speed
greater than is reasonable or prudent having due regard for weather,
visibility, the traffic on, and the surface and width of, the highway, and in
no event at a speed which endangers the safety of persons or property.
   (R)   Obedience To Traffic-Control Signals: The rider of any bicycle shall
obey the instructions of any official traffic signal applicable to him and
placed as provided by law, unless otherwise directed by a police or traffic
officer or when it is necessary for the purpose of avoiding a collision or in
case of other emergency.
   (S)   Reckless Operation: No person shall ride any bicycle upon any roadway
or public property in a wilful or wanton disregard for the safety of persons or
property.
   (T)   Intoxicated Operation:
      1.   It is unlawful for any person who is under the influence of
intoxicating liquor and/or any drug, to ride a bicycle upon any roadway.
      2.   It is unlawful for any person who is under the influence of
intoxicating liquor and/or any drug, to ride a bicycle upon other than a
roadway.
   (U)   Bicycle Parking: No person shall leave a bicycle lying on its side on
any sidewalk, or shall park a bicycle on a sidewalk in any other position, so
that there is not an adequate path for pedestrian traffic. (Ord. 651-97, 2-18-
1997)
CHAPTER 12
VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES
SECTION:
9-12-1: Infraction
9-12-1: INFRACTION:
   (A)   Any person who is convicted of violation of any provision of this
title shall be guilty of an infraction punishable by:
      1.   A fine not exceeding fifty dollars ($50.00) for the first violation;
      2.   A fine not exceeding one hundred dollars ($100.00) for a second
violation of the same ordinance within one year;
      3.   A fine not exceeding two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) for each
additional violation of the same ordinance within one year. (Ord. 651-97, 2-18-
1997)
CHAPTER 13
SKATING OR COASTING DEVICES
SECTION:
9-13-1: Definitions
9-13-2: Nuisance
9-13-3: Prohibited
9-13-4: Bicycles In The Skatepark Prohibited
9-13-5: Permitted
9-13-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply:
NUISANCE: Any activity which:
   (A)   Threatens injury to person or property;
   (B)   Creates an obstruction or presents a hazard to the free use of public
or private property by pedestrians or motorists; or
   (C)   Generates loud or unreasonable noise.
SKATING OR COASTING DEVICE: Includes any skateboard, roller skate, rollerblade,
scooter, coaster or other rolling or wheeled device self-propelled by human,
motor or wind power. (Ord. 654-97, 7-1-1997)
9-13-2: NUISANCE:
No person shall use a skating or coasting device in a manner which creates a
"nuisance" as defined in section
9-13-1 of this chapter. (Ord. 654-97, 7-1-1997)
9-13-3: PROHIBITED:
No person shall operate or use any skating or coasting device while:
   (A)   Upon any roadway, alley or sidewalk in any business district within
the city, whether public or private, and all other property owned by the city
and upon private property for which a request for the application of this
chapter has been established by resolution of the council;
   (B)   In any public park, playground or recreation area, except where the
city or recreation and park district has posted signs permitting the use of the
device;
   (C)   Upon any public sidewalk;
   (D)   Upon any city owned or operated parking facility;
   (E)   Upon the civic center complex; (Ord. 654-97, 7-1-1997)
   (F)   Skating at the west side recreation and park district skatepark
located at 500 Cascade Place, Taft, California, without wearing a skate helmet
that fulfills certification for CE safety standard requirements, elbow pads and
kneepads. (Ord. 708-03, 12-2-2003)
9-13-4: BICYCLES IN THE SKATEPARK PROHIBITED:
Bicycles are strictly prohibited from the interior of the skatepark located at
500 Cascade Place.
   (A)   Signs shall be erected indicating it is a violation of Taft city
ordinances to have a bicycle inside of the skatepark. The signs shall be posted
at the entrance(s) to the skatepark and have at least one inch (1") lettering.
   (B)   The fine for a violation of this section is fifty dollars ($50.00) for
the first offense, one hundred dollars ($100.00) for the second offense, and
two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) for third and all subsequent offenses.
   (C)   If a bicycle is seized as prima facie evidence of the violation, it
may be held as evidence until such time as the case has been closed either
through payment of the fine or hearing disposition. (Ord. 800-13, 7-16-2013)
9-13-5: PERMITTED:
The city council, may from time to time, designate certain areas for skating or
coasting devices as described. Such areas shall be designated by resolution of
the city council and posted with signs which are consistent with the standards
for signs utilized by the department of public works. (Ord. 654-97, 7-1-1997)
CHAPTER 14
TRAFFIC COMMITTEE
SECTION:
9-14-1: Established
9-14-2: Duties
9-14-1: ESTABLISHED:
There is established a Traffic Committee to serve without compensation,
consisting of the City Engineer or his representative, the Chief of Police of
the City or his designated representative, the District Traffic Engineer of the
California Department of Transportation (CalTrans) District 6 or his
representative, the Captain of the California Highway Patrol having
jurisdiction within the City or his representative, one member of the public
appointed by the City Council, one member of the City Council, and one member
of the Planning Commission. The chairman of the Traffic Committee shall be the
City Council member. (Ord. 680-2000, 4-4-2000)
9-14-2: DUTIES:
It shall be the duty of the Traffic Committee to suggest the most practicable
means for coordinating the activities of all officers and agencies of this City
having authority with respect to administration or enforcement of traffic
regulation; to stimulate and assist in the preparation and publication of
traffic reports; to receive complaints having to do with traffic matters; to
recommend to the legislative body of this City and to the City Engineer and
other City officials ways and means for improving traffic conditions; and to
exercise such other duties as provided in this Code. (Ord. 680-2000, 4-4-2000)
TITLE X
SUBDIVISIONS
CHAPTER 1
TITLE AND PURPOSE
SECTION:
10-1-1: Short Title
10-1-2: Purpose
10-1-3: Application
10-1-1: SHORT TITLE:
This Title shall be known as the Subdivision Ordinance of the City of Taft.
(Ord. 839-20, 10-20-2020)
10-1-2: PURPOSE:
The Subdivision Ordinance of the City is adopted to preserve, protect and
promote the public health, safety, convenience, prosperity and general welfare.
More specifically this title is adopted in order to achieve the following
objectives:
   (A)   To implement the General Plan of the City and its elements thereof, as
adopted, and revised from time to time, by the Council.
   (B)   To provide lots of sufficient size and appropriate design for the
purposes for which they are to be used.
   (C)   To provide streets of adequate capacity for the anticipated traffic
which would utilize them to ensure that they are designed to promote a safe
traffic circulation system.
   (D)   To accommodate new development in a manner that will preserve and
enhance the City’s living environment through skilled subdivision design.
   (E)   To provide for water supply, sewage disposal, storm drainage and other
utilities and facilities which are required by conditions to enhance the City’s
urban environment.
   (F)   To ensure that the cost of providing rights-of-way, street
improvements, utilities and public areas and facilities needed to serve new
developments are borne fairly and equitably by the subdivider rather than by
property owners of the City at large.
   (G)   To protect and enhance real property values. (Ord. 839-20, 10-20-2020)
10-1-3: APPLICATION:
Pursuant to the provisions of the Subdivision Map Act of the State of
California, being division 2 of title 7 (commencing with section 66410 of the
Government Code), referred to herein as the Map Act, and in addition to any
other regulations provided by law, the regulations of this Title shall apply to
all subdivisions, parcel maps, divisions, and mergers of land within the limits
of the City. The provisions of this title are supplemental to the provisions of
the Map Act, and except as otherwise provided, all terms used herein which are
defined in the Map Act shall have the same meaning as described in the Map Act,
and as the Map Act may hereinafter be amended. (Ord. 839-20, 10-20-2020)
CHAPTER 2
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
10-2-1: Definitions
10-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this title, certain words and terms used herein are defined
as follows:
 
ALLEY:                     A public way permanently dedicated or reserved as a
                           secondary means of access to abutting property.
                           The Project Assistance Team (PAT), as defined in
                           Chapter 1, title VI of the Taft Municipal Code,
                           shall make recommendations to the Commission on all
                           divisions and mergers of real property. The
                           Commission shall be the official body charged with
                           approval of lot line adjustments, lot mergers,
                           certificates of compliance, parcel map waivers, and
                           approval, conditional approval or denial of a
                           tentative parcel map, where the parcel map contains
                           four (4) parcels or less. The Commission shall
ADVISORY AGENCY:           further be charged with the duty of making
                           investigations and reports on the design and
                           improvement of tentative parcel map, where the
                           parcel map contains five (5) or more parcels, and
                           for tentative subdivision maps; and shall make
                           recommendations to approve, conditionally approve or
                           deny such tentative parcel maps and subdivision maps
                           to the Council. The Council shall have the final
                           authority to approve, conditionally approve, or
                           disapprove all such tentative parcel maps and
                           subdivision maps and shall take final action on all
                           final maps and parcel maps.
CERTIFICATE OF COMPLIANCE: Refer to section 66499.35 of the Map Act.
 
CITY:                      City of Taft.
CITY ENGINEER:             Refer to section 66416.5 of the Map Act.
COMMISSION:                The Planning Commission of the City of Taft.
COUNCIL:                   The City Council of the City of Taft.
DESIGN:                    Refer to section 66418 of the Map Act.
ENVIRONMENTAL SUBDIVISION: Refer to section 66418.2 of the Map Act.
                           The General Plan of the City of Taft as adopted by
GENERAL PLAN:              the Council and defined in Section 65300 et seq. of
                           the Government Code.
IMPROVEMENT:               Refer to section 66419 of the Map Act.
                           The Kern County Engineering Development Standards
                           and any other standards, resolutions or ordinances
                           as adopted and amended from time to time by the
                           Council and any other requirements set forth in the
IMPROVEMENT STANDARDS:     Map Act all of which pertain to the design and
                           installation of subdivision improvements. However,
                           whenever a conflict occurs between City adopted
                           standards and the Map Act, the Map Act shall
                           prevail.
                           The Subdivision Map Act of the State of California,
MAP ACT:                   being Division 2 of title 7 (sections 66410-
                           66499.58) of the Government Code.
MUNICIPAL CODE:            The Municipal Code of the City of Taft.
STREETS & HIGHWAYS
                           Per the Taft General Plan, Arterials serve as the
                           primary network for cross-town traffic flow.
                           Arterials connect areas of major traffic generation
                           within the urban areas and connect with important
                           county roads and state highways. Arterials also
                           provide for the distribution and collection of
                           through traffic to and from collector and local
   ARTERIAL STREET:     streets serving residential, commercial, and
                           industrial areas. Access to abutting uses should be
                           limited, where possible, to facilitate traffic flow
                           and reduce potential traffic conflicts and hazards.
                           Arterials should not be located adjacent to
                           sensitive land uses nor bisect neighborhoods.
                           Arterials are typically developed with a 110-foot
                           right-of-way and two to three travel lanes in each
                           direction.
 
 
                Per the Taft General Plan, Collectors provide for traffic movement between
   COLLECTOR arterial and local streets, traffic movement within and between neighborhoods and
STREET:         major activity centers, and limited direct access to abutting properties.
                Collectors are typically developed with a 90-foot right-of-way and one to two
                travel lanes in each direction.
                A street having only one outlet for vehicular traffic with a turnaround at the
   CUL-DE-SACopposite end which is not intended to be extended or continued to serve future
                subdivisions or adjacent lands.
                Per the Taft General Plan, Local Streets provide for direct access to abutting
   LOCAL     properties and for localized traffic movements within residential, commercial,
STREET:         and industrial areas. Local streets are typically developed with a minimum 56-
                foot right-of-way and one travel lane in each direction.
SUBDIVIDER:     Refer to section 66423 of the Map Act.
SUBDIVISION:    Refer to section 66424 of the Map Act.
                Refer to section 66424.5 of the Map Act. When the term “tentative parcel map” is
                used herein, it shall refer to the tentative map required for divisions of land
                falling within section a, b, c, d, e, and f of section 66426 of the Map Act and
TENTATIVE MAP:  for division of land into four (4) or less parcels; when the term tentative tract
                map is used, it shall refer to the tentative map required for divisions of land
                creating (5) or more parcels except in cases provided for in subsections a, b, c,
                d, e and f of section 66426 of the Map Act.
VESTING MAP:    Refer to Chapter 11 (Vesting Tentative Maps) of this Title and to section 66424.5
                of the Map Act. (Ord. 839-20, 10-20-2020)
 
CHAPTER 3
GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
10-3-1: Advisory Agency And Staff Responsibility
10-3-2: Fees
10-3-3: Parcel Map Waiver Procedure
10-3-4: Tentative Map Requirement
10-3-5: Tentative Map Extensions
10-3-6: Dedications
10-3-7: Public Reservations
10-3-8: Drainage And Sanitary Sewer Facilities
10-3-9: Supplemental Size Of Improvements
10-3-10: Environmental Impact
10-3-11: Grading And Erosion Control
10-3-12: Modifications
10-3-13: Severability
10-3-14: Model Homes
10-3-15: Parks
10-3-16: Appeals
10-3-17: Subdivider Indemnification Of City
10-3-1: ADVISORY AGENCY AND STAFF RESPONSIBILITY:
The Planning Director is charged with the review and approval of certificates
of compliance, lot line adjustments and lot mergers of real property. The
Project Assistance Team (PAT) as defined in
Chapter 1, title VI  of the Municipal Code shall make recommendations to the
Commission on all divisions of real property. The Commission shall be the
official body charged with approval of parcel map waivers, and approval,
conditional approval, or denial of tentative parcel maps. The Commission shall
further be charged with the duty of making investigations and reports on the
design and improvements of proposed tentative subdivision maps and to approve,
conditionally approve, or deny such tentative subdivision maps. The Council
shall have the final authority to approve, conditionally approve, or disapprove
all tentative subdivision maps and shall take final action on all final maps
and parcel maps. (Ord. 839-20, 10-20-2020)
10-3-2: FEES:
Fees for filing, checking and processing of any map or other papers, diagrams
or documents required under this Title; fees for preparation and filing of any
certificate of compliance, and fees for any appeal authorized hereunder shall
be in the amount prescribed by resolution of the Council. (Ord. 839-20, 10-20-
2020)
10-3-3: PARCEL MAP WAIVER PROCEDURE:
Except where required by the Map Act, the Commission may waive the requirements
of recordation of a parcel map if the Commission determines that (i) the filing
of a parcel map would serve no substantial public purpose, (ii) it finds that
such division complies with requirements as to improvements and design,
floodwater drainage control, appropriate improved public roads, sanitary
disposal facilities, water supply availability, and environmental protection,
and (iii) if finds that the waiver meets the requirements of section 66428 of
the Map Act. The commission is authorized to require the subdivider to furnish
a tentative map or such information as it deems necessary with respect to
matters to be considered. In case of waiver, the commission shall issue a
certificate of compliance under section 66499.35 of the Map Act. (Ord. 839-20,
10-20-2020)
10-3-4: TENTATIVE MAP REQUIREMENT:
A tentative map shall be required for all subdivisions unless waived by the
Commission consistent with the provision of section
10-3-3  above. (Ord. 839-20, 10-20-2020)
10-3-5: TENTATIVE MAP EXTENSIONS:
A subdivider filing a tentative map may request an extension of the tentative
map approval or conditional approval by written application to the Commission
for either granting said extension or, where consistent with the provisions of
this Title, as a recommendation to the Council for such determination. Such
application, stating the reasons for requesting an extension, is to be filed at
least thirty (30) days before the approval or conditional approval is due to
expire. The approved or conditionally approved map may be extended for an
additional time consistent with the provisions set forth in section 66463.5 of
the Map Act. (Ord. 839-20, 10-20-2020)
10-3-6: DEDICATIONS:
Pursuance to section 66475 of the Map Act, as a condition of approval of a
tentative map, the subdivider shall dedicate or make an irrevocable offer of
dedication of real property within the subdivision that is deemed necessary for
streets, alleys, including access rights and abutter’s rights, drainage, public
utility easements and other public easements. Such irrevocable offers may be
terminated as provided in section 66477.2 of the Map Act. (Ord. 839-20, 10-20-
2020)
10-3-7: PUBLIC RESERVATIONS:
Pursuant to section 66479 of the Map Act, as a condition of approval of a
tentative map, the subdivider shall reserve sites, appropriate in area a
location for parks, recreational facilities, fire stations, libraries or other
public uses subject to the requirements set forth in section 66479 including
subsection (a), (b), (c), and (d) of the Map Act. (Ord. 839-20, 10-20-2020)
10-3-8: DRAINAGE AND SANITARY SEWER FACILITIES:
Pursuant to section 66483 of the Map Act, as a condition of approval of a
tentative map, the subdivider shall pay fees for purposes of defraying the
actual or estimated costs of constructing planned drainage facilities for the
removal of surface and storm waters from local or neighborhood drainage areas
and of constructing planned sanitary sewer facilities for local sanitary sewer
areas subject to subsection (a) through (f) of section 66483 of the Map Act.
(Ord. 839-20, 10-20-2020)
10-3-9: SUPPLEMENTAL SIZE OF IMPROVEMENTS:
Pursuant to section 66485 of the Map Act, as a condition of approval of a
tentative map, improvements installed by the subdivider for the benefit of the
subdivision shall contain supplemental size, capacity of number for the benefit
of property not within the subdivision, and that such improvements be dedicated
to the public. (Ord. 839-20, 10-20-2020)
10-3-10: ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT:
No tentative map filed pursuant to this Title shall be approved until an
environmental impact analysis is prepared, processed and considered by the
Advisory Agency in accordance with the provisions of the California
Environmental Quality Act (CEQA). The subdivider shall provide such additional
data and information which may be required to adequately consider the
environmental impacts the subdivision may have upon the environment and to make
a deposit and pay such fees as may be required for the preparation and
processing of any such required environmental documents associated with the
tentative map. (Ord. 839-20, 10-20-2020)
10-3-11: GRADING AND EROSION CONTROL:
Every tentative map approved pursuant to the Title shall be conditioned on the
prevention of sedimentation or damage to off-site property, as set forth in the
California Building Code adopted by the Council. (Ord. 839-20, 10-20-2020)
10-3-12: MODIFICATIONS:
Whenever the Advisory Agency finds that the real property involved in a
tentative map is of such size, shape, topographical condition of location is
not consistent to such title limitations or it is to be devoted to such use
that it is impossible or impractical in that particular case to fully conform
to the regulations contain in this Title, the Advisory Agency may (i) make such
modifications thereof as is reasonably necessary or expedient, (ii) shall find
that the modification is consistent with the City’s General Plan and (iii) make
findings that the modification is in conformity with the spirit and purpose of
this Title and the Map Act. No such modification may be made to the
requirements for adequate water, sewage facilities, fire hydrants, and any
requirements of the Map Act. (Ord. 839-20, 10-20-2020)
10-3-13: SEVERABILITY:
If any section, subsection, subpart, paragraph, sentence, clause, phrase,
portion or provision; or the application thereof to any person, property or
circumstance of this Title is, for any reason, held to be unconstitutional or
invalid, such decision shall not be deemed to affect the validity of the
remaining section, subsection, subpart, paragraph, sentence, clause, phrase,
portion of provision; or the application thereof to any person property or
circumstance of this title, which remaining portions the Council declares it
would have adopted, notwithstanding. (Ord. 839-20, 10-20-2020)
10-3-14: MODEL HOMES:
A real estate tract sales office and model homes are allowed prior to
recordation of the final map provided they are in compliance with section
66499.30 of the Map Act with conditions as follows:
   (A)   Each tentatively approved subdivision or a particular phase of each
tentatively approved subdivision is permitted a maximum of ten (10) model
homes, one of which may include a tract sales office.
   (B)   Model homes may be constructed prior to recordation of the final map;
however, no such home shall be sold, leased, rented, or financed until the
final map has been recorded with the Kern County Recorder’s Office pursuant to
this Title and a final inspection has been approved by the City’s Building
Official.
   (C)   Sales offices shall only be used during the original sales of the lots
or homes within the tentatively approved subdivision in which they are located.
   (D)   A sales office may be located in a model home; however, a separate
temporary office, which may include a commercial coach or mobile home, is
permitted for a period of time not to exceed ninety (90) days prior to
completion of the model home in which the sales office is to be located. Any
sales office located in the garage portion of a model home shall be removed and
converted to a garage prior to the issuance of an approved final inspection by
the City Building Official.
   (E)   The vehicular route leading to and in front of any sales office and
any model home shall be paved from an existing improved public street prior to
the public being invited to the office for the sale of lots or homes or for a
tour of any model home by the public. (Ord. 839-20, 10-20-2020)
10-3-15: PARKS:
The subdivider shall be required to dedicate real property or pay fees in lieu
thereof, or a combination of both for park or recreational purposes as a
condition to an approved tentative map or parcel map, of all of the
subdivisions of section 66477(a) through (g) inclusive of the Map Act are met.
(Ord. 839-20, 10-20-2020)
10-3-16: APPEALS:
   (A)   APPEAL OF ACTION: Any subdivider may appeal a decision of the
Commission to the Council where the Commission’s decision would otherwise be
final.
   (B)   FILING OF APPEALS: Appeal application forms shall be made available at
the office of the Planning Department to any subdivider wishing to appeal an
action included in this Title. Appeal applications shall be filed with the
Planning Department within ten (10) days, in accordance with section 66452.5 of
the Map Act, following the date of action for which an appeal is made unless
otherwise provided in this Title. If the last day to file falls on a holiday, a
Saturday or a Sunday, the following business day shall be deemed the last day
to act. Appeals requiring Council consideration will be forwarded to the City
Clerk by the Planning Director.
   (C)   APPEAL HEARINGS: Public notice of an appeal hearing shall be given in
the manner in which the original notice was given. In the case of an appeal of
a Commission decision, notice shall be given pursuant to Section
6-2-19  of Title VI of the Municipal Code.
   (D)   EFFECTIVE DATE OF APPEAL ACTIONS: Except as otherwise provided for in
this Title, an action that has been appealed shall not become effective until a
final determination is made by the Council. (Ord. 839-20, 10-20-2020)
10-3-17: SUBDIVIDER INDEMNIFICATION OF CITY:
As provided in section 66474.9(b) of the Map Act, the City shall require, as a
condition for a tentative parcel or final map application or approval, that the
subdivider defend, indemnify, and hold harmless the City, its agents, officers,
or employees from any claim, action, or proceeding against the City, its
agents, officers, or employees to attack, set aside, void, or annul an approval
by the City concerning a subdivision which action is brought within the time
period provided for in section 66499.37 of the Map Act. (Ord. 839-20, 10-20-
2020)
CHAPTER 4
TENTATIVE MAPS
SECTION:
10-4-1: Pre-Filing
10-4-2: Application Submittal
10-4-3: Public Hearings And Notices
10-4-4: Transmittal To Public Agencies And Utilities
10-4-5: Notice To Subdivider
10-4-6: Findings
10-4-1: PRE-FILING:
   (A)   The subdivider is encouraged to request a meeting, through the
Planning Department, with the Project Assistance Team (PAT) and any interested
public or private agencies that may be affected by the proposed subdivision.
The purpose of the meeting will be informational in content and will be focused
on discussions related to issues that may affect the design and conditions of
the proposed subdivision.
   (B)   Every subdivider submitting a tentative map shall pay a processing fee
in an amount prescribed by resolution of the Council. (Ord. 839-20, 10-20-2020)
10-4-2: APPLICATION SUBMITTAL:
The following items are required for filing a tentative parcel map or
subdivision map with the City. Said map shall be prepared by or under the
direction of a registered civil engineer or a license land surveyor and shall
be as follows:
   (A)   Eight (8) copies of tentative maps no less than eighteen (18) inches
by twenty-four (24) inches in size, and to a scale of note less than one (1)
inch equals one hundred (100) feet, or one (1) centimeter equals ten (10)
meters, unless otherwise approved by the City Engineer on his finding that an
alternate scale will permit presentation of map data of acceptable completeness
and clarity. Tentative maps are required to be prepared by a registered civil
engineer or licensed land surveyor.
   (B)   Each application must be accompanied by a tentative map number (map
numbers are issued by the Kern County Public Works Department). A tentative map
shall contain the following information:
      1.   A site location or vicinity map indicating the location of the
property to be divided.
      2.   The subdivision or parcel map number, name (if any), date, north
arrow, scale and sufficient description to define the location and boundaries
of the proposed map.
      3.   The name, address, and Assessor Parcel Number(s) of all property
owners and mineral rights owners of the property to be subdivided.
      4.   Name, business address and phone number of the registered civil
engineer or licensed land surveyor, who prepared the map.
      5.   The locations, names, widths, approximate grade and curve radii of
all roads, streets, highways, and ways proposed and existing within the
property and along its boundaries.
      6.   Sufficient elevations at contour intervals of two (2) feet unless
otherwise approved by the City Engineer.
      7.   The location and character of all existing and proposed public
utilities on the property or on adjoining and contiguous highways, streets, and
ways, and the appropriate widths, location and identification of all existing
or proposed easements.
      8.   Approximate lot layout, lot numbers, and approximate dimensions and
square footage of each lot.
      9.   Boundary line and size of property.
      10.   Location of City Boundary lines and boundary lines of any other
public district which lie within five hundred (500) feet of the exterior
boundary lines of the proposed subdivision.
      11.   A key map showing the reposed subdivision and surrounding
subdivisions and streets located within one-quarter (1/4) mile of the
boundaries of the proposed subdivision.
      12.   Preliminary roadway cut and fill slope areas.
      13.   Approximate areas subject to inundation or storm water overflow and
the approximate location, width, and direction of flow of all water courses.
      14.   Approximate locations of existing structures, wells, irrigation
ditches, pipelines, sewage disposal systems, test wells, percolation holes and
sufficiently flagged reference points for use by appropriate public agencies
for field check purposes. Any existing features which are to remain in place
shall be so noted.
      15.   Copy of Deed of Record.
      16.   Locations and approximate dimensions of proposed public areas, if
any.
      17.   A tentative drainage plan, including provisions for the disposal of
storm water.
      18.   Proposed street tree plantings, landscaping, if any.
      19.   Proposed phasing, if applicable.
   Note: If the information to be shown as set forth in the foregoing section
cannot all be placed on the tentative map, then a report containing the
material shall be submitted with the map.
   (C)   A subdivider’s statement shall be submitted with each tentative map.
The subdivider’s statement required shall contain the following information:
      1.   Existing use of the property.
      2.   Zoning and General Plan Land Use Designation on the property.
      3.   Proposed use of the property. If the property is proposed to be used
for more than one purpose, the area of lot(s) proposed for each type of use
shall be shown on the tentative map.
      4.   Descriptive information on the following:
         (a)   Proposed domestic water supply and sewage disposal systems.
         (b)   Proposed street, surface drainage, grading, fire protection, and
other improvements.
   (D)   The following documents shall be submitted with each tentative map:
      1.   Current preliminary title report.
      2.   A letter describing and setting forth the reasons for any exception
requested to the provisions of the Subdivision Ordinance and for any re-zoning,
use permit, or zoning variance which may be necessary to permit proposed uses
of land and structures within the property and which will be applied for by the
applicant.
      3.   A legible copy of the current owner’s grant deed or contract of
sale.
      4.   A map and copies of deeds of all other property owned by the
applicant that is contiguous to the subject real property.
      5.   A list of all special districts in which the proposed subdivision
lies and the boundary of the special district if it divides the proposed
subdivision.
   (E)   Soil Report and Percolation Test.
      1.   The City Engineer may, when based on knowledge of soil qualities of
the site, require a preliminary soil report or a statement by a registered
civil engineer as to the feasibility of the proposed development, in relation
to geologic and soil characteristics, to be submitted prior to review of the
tentative map by the Commission.
      2.   The City Engineer may, on the basis of such engineer’s statement, or
preliminary soil report, require a soil investigation of any or all lots.
      3.   On lots whose locations and/or topography create conditions
impractical for sewer hookup, the City Engineer shall require a percolation
test for the purpose of private sewage disposal design. In such cases a review
for waiver of sewer hookup will be required.
      4.   An environmental analysis completed pursuant to the provisions of
the California Environmental Quality Act and the policies and guidelines
adopted by City of Taft shall be submitted with each Tentative Map. (Ord. 839-
20, 10-20-2020)
10-4-3: PUBLIC HEARING AND NOTICE:
   (A)   The secretary of the Commission shall set a date for a public hearing
for consideration of the tentative map by the Commission, which date shall be
within fifty (50) days after the map is filed, in accordance with section
66452.1(b) of the Map Act. Notwithstanding section 66452.1(b), the time period
specified above shall commence after certification of an environmental impact
report, adoption of a negative declaration, or a determination by the City that
the project is exempt from the requirements of Division 13 (commencing with
Section 21000) of the Public Resources Code as set forth in section 66452.1(c)
of the Map Act. A further time extension for the City to set a date for public
hearing may be granted upon mutual agreement of the Commission and the
subdivider.
   (B)   PUBLIC HEARINGS AND NOTICES: Notice of public hearings of a tentative
subdivision indicating the time and place thereof, and a general description of
the subdivision location shall be published by law by all of the following
methods:
      1.   Publication in a newspaper of general circulation within the City at
least ten (10) calendar days prior to the public hearing;
      2.   Mailing at least ten (10) calendar days prior to the public hearing,
to all owners of property within a distance of three hundred (300) feet from
the exterior boundaries of the property involved in the application. For this
purpose, the last known name and address of each property owner as contained in
the records of the latest equalized Kern County Assessor rolls shall be used;
      3.   Mailing at least ten (10) calendar days prior to the public hearing,
or delivering at least ten (10) calendar days prior to the public hearing, to
each local agency expected to provide essential services or facilities to the
project whose ability to provide those facilities and services may be
significantly affected;
      4.   Mailing at least ten (10) calendar days prior to the public hearing,
or delivering at least ten (10) calendar days prior to the public hearing, to
the owner of the subject real property or to the owner’s duly authorized agent,
and to the project applicant and the applicant’s authorized representative, if
any;
      5.   Mailing at least ten (10 calendar days prior to the public hearing,
to any person who has filed a written request with the City Clerk and has
provided the City Clerk with a self-addressed stamped envelope for that
purpose.
      6.   Any other means prescribed by law, or desired by the City. (Ord.
839-20, 10-20-2020)
10-4-4: TRANSMITTAL TO PUBLIC AGENCIES AND UTILITIES:
   (A)   When the tentative map is received and filed under the provisions of
this chapter the Secretary of the Commission shall, within five (5) working
days thereafter, transmit the tentative map to requesting agencies, as set
forth in section 66453(b) of the Map Act.
   (B)   Within fifteen (15) days of receiving a copy of a tentative map, the
requesting agencies may submit recommendation to the City Planning Department.
The Advisory Agency shall consider these recommendations before acting on the
tentative map as set forth in section 66453(c) of the Map Act.
   (C)   The department of the City to which a tentative map is transmitted
shall, within the jurisdiction of such department, respond to the Planning
Department staff, in writing, within ten (10) working days of receipt thereof
setting forth its recommendations for map approval to make such map conform to
the requirements of the City’s Municipal Code and the Map Act. (Ord. 839-20,
10-20-2020)
10-4-5: NOTICE TO SUBDIVIDERS:
Planning Staff shall make a written report with recommendations on the
tentative map and a copy thereof served on the subdivider at least three (3)
days prior to any action on such map by the Commission. Service may be in
person, by mail, or electronic delivery. Service shall be deemed complete on
personal delivery to the subdivider or two (2) days after depositing such
report and recommendations in the U.S. mail. (Ord. 839-20, 10-20-2020)
10-4-6: FINDINGS:
The responsibilities of the Council under the provisions of section 66473.5,
66474, 66474.1, and 66474.6 of the Map Act are assigned to the Commission under
authority of section 66474.7 of the Map Act. (Ord. 839-20, 10-20-2020)
CHAPTER 5
STANDARDS AND DESIGN
SECTION:
10-5-1: Access
10-5-2: Streets And Highways
10-5-3: Local And Collector Streets; Widths
10-5-4: Boundary Line Streets
10-5-5: Intersection Angle And Block Cutoff
10-5-6: Curve Radius
10-5-7: Alleys
10-5-8: Street Names
10-5-9: Easements
10-5-10: Block Lengths And Widths
10-5-11: Lots
10-5-12: Pedestrian Way
10-5-13: Underground Utilities
10-5-14: Waiver Of Preliminary Soils Report
10-5-15: Mailboxes In Public Right-Of-Way
10-5-1: ACCESS:
Each lot of parcel of a subdivision shall be provided with vehicular access to
a street or highway improved and maintained by (i) either a public agency or
(ii) in the case of a private street maintained as set forth in a homeowner
association, or other mechanism to guarantee continued maintenance of the
street or highway, both of which shall be connected thereto directly or
indirectly by means of vehicular access which has been approved by the
Commission or Council, whichever is applicable. (Ord. 839-20, 10-20-2020)
10-5-2: STREETS AND HIGHWAYS:
All streets, as far as practicable, shall be designed to eliminate traffic
hazards and shall ensure an efficient and practical flow of traffic. The
streets shall also conform in width and alignment to those designated on the
Circulation Element of the City’s General Plan and to the Kern County
Engineering Development Standards. If any street in the subdivision is a
continuation, or approximately a continuation of an existing street, the
conformity of the amount of nonconformity of such a street, to such existing
street shall be accurately shown. Whenever the County surveyor or the City of
Engineer has established the center line of a street or alley, the date shall
be shown on the final subdivision map. (Ord. 839-20, 10-20-2020)
10-5-3: LOCAL AND COLLECTOR STREETS; WIDTHS:
All collector and local streets shall have a right-of-way width consistent with
the standards and specifications set forth in the Kern County Engineering
Development Standards except as provided in Sections
10-5-4 ,
10-5-5 , and
10-5-6  below. (Ord. 839-20, 10-20-2020)
10-5-4: BOUNDARY LINE STREETS:
Any land intended to be a part of the ultimate width of a highway or street,
lying along and adjacent to any such boundary, shall have a width consistent
with the standards and specifications set forth in the Kern County Engineering
Development Standards. (Ord. 839-20, 10-20-2020)
10-5-5: INTERSECTION ANGLE AND BLOCK CUTOFF:
Any highway or street intersecting any other highway or street shall intersect
at an angle as near a right angle as is practicable as set forth in the Kern
County Engineering Development Standards. (Ord. 839-20, 10-20-2020)
10-5-6: CURVE RADIUS:
The centerline curve radii on all streets and highways shall conform to
accepted engineering standards of design and shall be subject to approval by
the City Engineer. (Ord. 839-20, 10-20-2020)
10-5-7: ALLEYS:
Alleys may be provided at the rear of each lot and shall be not less than
twenty feet (20') in width. Where two (2) alleys intersect, a corner cutoff of
not less than ten feet (10') measured from the point of intersection along the
sideline of the alley shall be required. In the rear of all lots used or
intended to be used for commercial, industrial, or high density residential
alleys at least thirty feet (30') in width or other adequate off street loading
facilities shall be provided. (Ord. 839-20, 10-20-2020)
10-5-8: STREET NAMES:
Each street or way which is dedicated and is a continuation of or approximately
the continuation of any existing dedicated street or way shall be shown on the
tentative map and shall be given the same name as such existing street or way.
The proposed name of each other street or way shown on the tentative map shall
be submitted to the Planning Department for approval, and if such name is
appropriate for a street name, such name shall be approved. The words “avenue”,
“boulevard”, “place” or other designation of any such street or way shall be
spelled out in full on the final subdivision map and such terms shall be
approved by the Planning Department. (Ord. 839-20, 10-20-2020)
10-5-9: EASEMENTS:
   (A)   Unless otherwise permitted by the Municipal Code, the Kern County
Engineering Development Standards, or other City standards, or a utility
company or other agency being affected, utility distribution lines shall be
placed underground within the public right-of-way, and a six foot (6') by six
foot (6') public utility easement for equipment enclosure shall be required
adjacent to lot sideline and street right-of-way line intersection, excepting
corner lots.
   (B)   The sidelines of all easements shall be shown by fine dotted lines. If
any easement already of record cannot be definitely located, a statement of the
existence, the nature thereof and its recorded reference must appear on the
title sheet. Distances and bearing on the sidelines of lots which are cute by
an easement must be arrowed or so shown that the map will indicate clearly the
actual lengths of the lot lines. The widths of all easements and sufficient
ties thereto definitely to locate the same with respect to a tract map must be
shown. For parcel maps, easements shall be shown substantially in the correct
location in relation to the corners of the property being divided, however when
such easement is not being dedicated the ties to the easement need not be shown
on the map. A recorded reference must be given for all easements shown on the
map if already of record. If an easement is being dedicated by the map, it
shall be set out in the owner’s certificate of dedication. All notes and
figures pertaining to easements shall be considerably smaller and lighter than
those relating to the subdivision itself.
   (C)   The City shall prohibit the approval of any parcel map, final map, or
project which shows potentially conflicting easements and/or rights-of-way,
except on condition that the City’s street use easement/right-of-way is deemed
to be first in time and first in priority with respect to any potentially
conflicting easement and/or right-of-way.
   (D)   The City shall not accept any dedication of property and/or off-site
public improvements in which a previous easement exists, in conjunction with
any parcel map, final map, or project which shows potentially conflicting
easements and/or rights-of-way, except on condition that the City’s street use
easement/right-of-way is deemed to be first in time and first in priority with
respect to any potentially conflicting easement and/or right-of-way. (Ord. 839-
20, 10-20-2020)
10-5-10: BLOCK LENGTHS AND WIDTHS:
   (A)   Blocks shall not exceed seven hundred feet (700') in length between
street lines, except where previous adjacent streets by nature of the alignment
of those streets, requires longer blocks or when resubdivisions justify or
require, by finding of the Council, a variation from this requirement.
   (B)   The width of each block shall be sufficient for a layout of at least
two (2) tiers of lots including alleys, provided however, that the surrounding
layout lines of ownership justify or make necessary a variation from this
requirement. (Ord. 839-20, 10-20-2020)
10-5-11: LOTS:
   (A)   Lots Sizes: All lots or parcels shall be of such size and dimension as
required by the Land Use Classification of the General Plan, Specific Plan, or
zoning district in which they are located. Consideration may be given for a
topographical location and other physical conditions of the proposed
subdivision by the Advisory Agency.
   (B)   Lot Lines: The street side lot lines of all corner lots, so far as
possible, shall be at right angles to the street(s) which the lot faces, or
radial or approximately radial if the street is curved.
   (C)   Divided Lots: No lot shall be divided by the city boundary line. Each
such boundary line shall be made a lot line.
   (D)   Double Frontage Lots: Double frontage lots shall not be approved
except where the conditions permit no other reasonable form of platting. Where
land abuts a major or secondary street, double frontage lots may be permitted
when the Advisory Agency deems it to be reasonable due to such controlling
factors as traffic, safety, appearance and setback. (Ord. 839-20, 10-20-2020)
10-5-12: PEDESTRIAN WAY:
Except in the case of any reversion to acreage map, or boundary map, a
transverse pedestrian-way of adequate width may be required through the
approximately middle of each block having a length of more than seven hundred
feet (700'). (Ord. 839-20, 10-20-2020)
10-5-13: UNDERGROUND UTILITIES:
All utility distribution facilities (including, but not limited to, electric,
communication and cable television lines) installed in and for the purpose of
supplying service to any residential or commercial subdivision shall be placed
underground except equipment appurtenant to underground facilities. The
subdivider is responsible for complying with the requirements of this
subsection, and shall make the necessary arrangements with the utility
companies involved for the installation of said facilities. Industrial
subdivisions may be excluded from the provisions of this section upon a showing
that such under grounding is not financially feasible. Services from public
utilities shall be made in such a manner to eliminate, as much as possible, the
necessity for disturbing the street pavement, gutter, culvert and curb. (Ord.
839-20, 10-20-2020)
10-5-14: WAIVER OF PRELIMINARY SOILS REPORT:
A preliminary soils report requirement may be waived, when the City Engineer
finds that due to the knowledge the City has as to the soil qualities of the
soils in the subdivision, no preliminary analysis is necessary. (Ord. 839-20,
10-20-2020)
10-5-15: MAILBOXES IN PUBLIC RIGHT OF WAY:
When post office regulations prohibit delivery of mail to mailboxes which are
not located adjacent to curb lines, the subdivider shall install, as a part of
the required improvements, mailboxes for each individual dwelling unit to be
located within the subdivision. Wherever possible, the subdivider shall install
uniformly designed mailboxes no closer than six inches (6") from the face of
the curb and at a height of four feet (4') above the curb. The supports shall
be of durable material, either concrete, brick, or metal set into the ground a
minimum of twenty four inches (24"), and secured with concrete. The box should
be wood or metal. Colors, design, and material of the mail boxes should reflect
the character of the development and shall be subject to approval by the
Postmaster and the Project Assistance Team. Where post office requirements
dictate the installation of collective mail boxes in centralized locations, the
design and location of said collective mail boxes shall be subject to approval
by the Project Assistance Team and the Postmaster prior to issuance of a final
inspection by the Building Official. (Ord. 839-20, 10-20-2020)
CHAPTER 6
IMPROVEMENTS
SECTION:
10-6-1: Completion Of Improvements
10-6-2: Improvement Security
10-6-3: Form Of Bonds
10-6-4: Amount Of Improvement Security
10-6-5: Release Of Improvement Security
10-6-6: Forfeiture Of Improvement Security
10-6-7: Improvements Within Subdivisions
10-6-8: Plans And Profiles; Filing
10-6-9: Wye Branch Map
10-6-10: Survey Requirements; Monuments
10-6-11: Subdivision Standards
10-6-1: COMPLETION OF IMPROVEMENTS:
Improvements required as a condition of approval shall be completed at the
subdivider’s expense prior to filing of a final map with the Kern County
Recorder unless an improvement agreement on terms mutually agreeable to the
Council and the subdivider has been entered into and the improvement security
has been posted as provided in this chapter. (Ord. 839-20, 10-20-2020)
10-6-2: IMPROVEMENT SECURITY:
The improvement agreement referred to in Section
10-6-1  shall be secured by one of the following:
   (A)   A bond or bonds by one or more duly authorized corporate sureties.
   (B)   A deposit, either with the City or a responsible escrow agent or trust
company selected by the City, or cash, negotiable bonds or letter of credit of
the kind approved for securing deposits of public moneys.
   (C)   An irrevocable instrument of credit from one or more responsible
financial institutions regulated by the state or federal government and
pledging the funds are on deposit and guaranteed for payment on demand by the
City. (Ord. 839-20, 10-20-2020)
10-6-3: FORM OF BONDS:
   (A)   The form of bond to secure the faithful performance of the improvement
agreement shall be in substantially the same form as provided for in section
66499.1 of the Government Code of the State, except the City may add other
provisions if it so desires.
   (B)   The form of bond for the security of laborers and material men shall
be substantially the same form as provided for in section 66499.2 of the
Government Code of the State except the City may add other provisions if it so
desires.
   (C)   Appropriate modifications shall be made in such form if the bond is
being furnished for the performance of an act not provided for by agreement.
(Ord. 839-20, 10-20-2020)
10-6-4: AMOUNT OF IMPROVEMENT SECURITY:
Security to guarantee the performance on any act or agreement shall be in the
following amounts:
   (A)   One hundred percent (100%) of the total estimated cost of the
improvement or act to be performed conditioned upon the faithful performance of
the act or agreement.
   (B)   An additional amount of fifty percent (50%) of the total estimated
cost of the improvement or act to be performed securing payment to the
contractor, the subcontractors and to person furnishing labor, materials or
equipment to them for the improvement of the performance of the required act.
   (C)   The amount determined by the City Engineer necessary to guarantee or
warranty the work for a period of one year following completion or acceptance
thereof against any defective work or labor done, or defective materials
furnished.
   (D)   If the improvement security is other than a bond or bonds furnished by
duly authorized corporate surety, an additional amount shall be included as
determined by the City Engineer as necessary to cover the cost, reasonable
expenses and fees, including reasonable attorney’s fees, which may be incurred
by the City in successfully enforcing the obligation secured. The improvement
shall also secure the faithful performance of any changes or alterations in the
work to the extent that such changes or alterations do not exceed ten percent
(10%) of the original estimated cost of the improvement. (Ord. 839-20, 10-20-
2020)
10-6-5: RELEASE OF IMPROVEMENT SECURITY:
The security furnished by the subdivider shall be released in whole or in part
in the following manner:
   (A)   Security given for faithful performance of any act or agreement shall
be released, upon the final completion and acceptance of the required act or
work, by the Council subject to the provisions of subsection (B) thereof.
   (B)   The City Engineer may release a portion of the security in conjunction
with the acceptance of the performance of the required act or work as it
progresses upon application therefore by the subdivider; provided, however,
that no such release shall be for an amount more than ninety percent (90%) of
the total improvement security given for faithful performance of the act or
work and that the security shall not be reduced to an amount less than ten
percent (10%) of the total improvement security given for faithful performance
until final completion of the required act or work and acceptance of the
required act or work by the Council. In no event shall the Council authorize a
release of improvement security which would reduce such security to an amount
below that required to guarantee the completion of the act or work and any
other obligation imposed by this chapter, the Map Act or the improvement
agreement.
   (C)   Security given to secure payment to the contractor, his subcontractors
and to persons furnishing labor, materials or equipment, shall, six (6) months
after the completion of the required act or work and acceptance of said
required act or work by the Council, be reduced to an amount equal to the
amount of all claims therefore filed and of which notice has been given to the
Council, plus an amount reasonably determined by the City Engineer to be
required to assure the performance of any other obligations secured thereby.
The balance of the security shall be released upon the settlement of all such
claims and obligations for which the security was given.
   (D)   No security given for the guaranty of warranty of a required act or
work shall be released until the expiration of the period thereof. (Ord. 839-
20, 10-20-2020)
10-6-6: FORFEITURE OF IMPROVEMENT SECURITY:
Upon the failure of the subdivider to complete any improvement, acts or
obligations within the time specified, the Council may, upon notice in writing
of not less than ten (10) days served upon the person responsible for the
performance thereof or upon notice in writing of not less than twenty (20)
days, served certified mail addressed to the last known address of such person,
determine that the subdivider is in default and may cause the improvement
security or such portion thereof as is necessary to complete the required work
or act or any other obligations of the subdivider secured thereby to be
forfeited to the City. (Ord. 839-20, 10-20-2020)
10-6-7: IMPROVEMENTS WITHIN SUBDIVISIONS:
   (A)   The Council in its determination to require or not require any of such
improvements within parcel maps shall consider the following factors:
      1.   Whether the installation of any such improvements would be premature
in relation to the public needs of the present and the immediate future.
      2.   Whether the omission of all or any part of such improvements would
materially detrimental to the public welfare, safety, health or convenience.
      3.   Whether the omission of all or any part of such improvements would
be injurious to property or improvements in the area.
      4.   The extent to which the improvements are desirable to fulfill public
needs emanating from the subdivider’s proposed use or possible use.
      5.   The extent to which the community may need protection against
potentially bad effects of the proposed use or possible use.
   (B)   Improvement required in a subdivision for which a final map is
required shall be installed to permanent line and grade to the satisfaction of
the City Engineer in accordance with the Kern County Engineering Development
Standards and in accordance with all applicable provisions of
Chapter 5  of this Title entitled Standards and Design.
   (C)   The following improvements may be required by the Commission for all
parcel maps and tentative subdivision maps and if so required, shall be
furnished at the subdivider’s expense; all to be constructed in accordance with
the Kern County Engineering Development Standards.
      1.   Grading, curbs and gutters, drainage and drainage structures
necessary to the proper use and drainage of streets, highways, alleys and ways
and to the public safety.
      2.   Installation and surfacing of streets, highways, alleys and ways.
      3.   Sidewalks.
      4.   Sanitary sewer facilities and connections for each parcel or lot
created.
      5.   Water system with mains of sufficient number of outlets to furnish
adequate domestic water supply for each parcel or lot created and to provide
adequate fire protection to meet local neighborhood needs.
      6.   Street trees of a type, size, spacing and planting at the time
specified by the Commission or Council as may be appropriate.
      7.   Street name signs.
      8.   A fence or wall six fee (6') in height between any subdivision and
the right of way line of any irrigation canal or natural drainage channel.
      9.   Street lighting where and as required by the Commission or Council
as may be appropriate. (Ord. 839-20, 10-20-2020)
10-6-8: PLANS AND PROFILES; FILING:
Plans, specifications and profiles of all improvements required under the
provisions of this Chapter, as well as other improvements proposed to be
installed and constructed by the subdivider in , over, or under any street or
right of way, easement, lot or parcel of land where improvements are required
or proposed, shall be filed with the Public Works Director. (Ord. 839-20, 10-
20-2020)
10-6-9: WYE BRANCH MAP:
Prior to the time of filing of the notice of completion and acceptance of
sewers with the subdivisions, the subdivider shall file with the Public Works
Director an as-built map drawn to a scale of one inch (1") equal to one hundred
feet (100'), showing the location of all wye branches or house lateral sewers
constructed or to be constructed in the subdivision. The subdivider shall
furnish to the City two (2) copies of the as-built map. (Ord. 839-20, 10-20-
2020)
10-6-10: SURVEY REQUIREMENTS AND MONUMENTS:
   (A)   In all cases where a parcel map is required, such map shall be based
upon a field survey made in conformity with the Land Surveyors Act or be
compiled from recorded or filed data when sufficient survey information exists
on filed maps to locate and retrace the exterior boundary lines of the parcel
map if the location or at least one of these boundary lines can be established
from an existing monument line.
   (B)   In all cases where a final map is required, such map shall be based
upon a survey. All survey and mathematical information and date necessary to
locate all monuments and to locate and retrace any interior and exterior
boundary lines appearing thereupon shall be shown, including bearings and
distances of straight lines and radii, the central angle and arc length for all
curves, and such information as may be necessary to determine the location of
the centers of curves and ties to existing monuments used to establish the
subdivision boundaries.
   (C)   At the time of making the survey for the final subdivision map, the
engineer or surveyor shall set sufficient durable monuments so that another
engineer or surveyor may readily retrace the survey.
   (D)   Such engineer or surveyor shall set the following monuments as
follows:
      1.   Set City standard monuments where practical at all angle and curve
points on the exterior boundary and all intersections of street centerlines,
the beginning and ending of all curves on street centerlines within a
subdivision, except the exterior boundary of parcel maps compiled from recorded
data. Where standard monuments are not set, two (2) inch iron pipe (minimum
length 24 inches) shall be substituted, mortar filled and with the
identification tag centered. No wood filling will be permitted.
      2.   Such monuments will be so set as to ensure an unobstructed sight
between adjacent monuments, whenever feasible, and in no case shall the
distance between such monuments exceed one thousand (1,000) feet, unless prior
approval is obtained from the city engineer.
      3.   All such monuments are to be permanently marked with the certificate
number of the engineer or surveyor setting it, preceded by letters, “R.E.” or
“L.S.” respectively, as the case may be.
      4.   Pre-case concrete monuments shall be set on all new streets, alleys,
or public ways which are to have a permanent type of pavement. The pre-cast
concrete monuments shall be set in a standard monument encasement with frame
and cover. All other monuments may be two (2) inch pipe.
      5.   Precast concrete monuments shall be set no less than eight (8)
inches or more than twelve (12) inches below finished grade and iron pipe
monuments shall be set not less than six (6) inches or more than eighteen (18)
inches below finished grade.
      6.   When any of the above described boundary points fall in a concrete
sidewalk, cube, wall, coping, etc., such points shall be marked with a lead
plug, copper or brass nail and a metal tag marked with the certificate number
as described above for concrete monuments.
      7.   On all curved streets a sufficient number of monuments shall be set
forth so that the connecting chords shall be wholly within the street roadway
between the curb lines.
      8.   The character, type and positions of all monuments and covers shall
be noted on the final subdivision map. If any shortage or excess of distance is
found on the ground between existing monuments, compared with the original
record, division of the total must bear its proportion of such shortage or
excess.
      9.   A traverse of the boundaries of the tract, and of all lots and
blocks must close within a limit of error not in excess of one (1) foot in ten
thousand (10,000) feet.
      10.   All distances must be expressed on the map to the nearest one-
hundredth (0.01) of a foot, except that when the sum of a series must equal an
overall distance, each distance in the series may be expressed to the third
decimal place.
      11.   The engineer or surveyor making the survey for any subdivision for
which a final map is required shall set a durable monument at each angle and
curve point on the boundary of each lot, which angle and curve point is not
covered above. Such monument shall consist of a two (2) inch by two (2) inch
redwood stake, eighteen (18) inches in length, centered with copper or brass
nail and metal tag properly marked as previously described; provided that
whenever a point marking any of the above described lot locations occurs in
improved area, such as concrete sidewalk, curb, wall, coping, etc., such points
shall be marked with lead plug, copper or brass nail and said metal tag
properly described. A cross cut shall be placed on top of the curb on the
extension of side lot lines for each lot in a subdivision.
      12.   If in the opinion of the City Engineer any of those points which
are mentioned in subsection (D).11 of this section are inaccessible, then
reference point shall be set in a manner which will comply with the intent of
said subsection (D).11 of this section.
      13.   After all surface improvements have been completed, the engineer or
surveyor shall arrange with the City Engineer for an inspection of the work as
provided for. The engineer or surveyor or representative of said engineer or
surveyor, doing said work shall be present during the time of said inspection.
All monuments and stakes as required by this section shall be exposed and
plainly visible at the time of inspection, or if not exposed, the engineer or
surveyor shall file a certification with the City Engineer that all monuments
and stakes have been installed as required by this section.
      14.   Any monuments or stakes disturbed by the improvements shall be
reset. Where no streets are to be improved, the subdivider shall post a
faithful performance bond to guarantee the setting of all the above stakes and
monuments.
      15.   Vertical datum for all improvements within a subdivision shall be
based on U.S. cost and geodetic survey data and at least two (2) permanent
bench marks shall be established within the boundaries of a subdivision and
within public right-of-way. (Ord. 839-20, 10-20-2020)
10-6-11: SUBDIVISION STANDARDS:
Subdivision improvement standards shall be in accordance with the Kern County
Engineering Development Standards, adopted by resolution of the Council, and
with any other City adopted ordinances, resolutions, or standards that are
consistent with section 66462(b) of the Government Code. (Ord. 839-20, 10-20-
2020)
CHAPTER 7
OPTIONAL DESIGN AND IMPROVEMENT STANDARDS
SECTION:
10-7-1: Subdividers Intent
10-7-2: Letter Of Justification
10-7-3: Improved Design Based On Density Control
10-7-4: Exception In Lot Size
10-7-5: Review And Decision
10-7-6: Maintenance Of Undedicated Improvements
10-7-7: Requirements
10-7-1: SUBDIVIDERS INTENT:
Where a subdivider signifies his intent to enhance the livability, convenience
and appearance of modern site planning techniques in the arrangements of lots,
circulation pattern and in the provision of permanent open space and
appropriate means of access to blocks, schools, shopping centers and other
uses, which do not comply with the requirements of these subdivision
regulations but which serve to facilitate the ultimate development of the land
in the manner that will be commensurate with contemporary living patterns and
technological progress, that subdivider may be permitted exceptions provided
the subdivision complies with the provisions of the following sections of this
Chapter. (Ord. 839-20, 10-20-2020)
10-7-2: LETTER OF JUSTIFICATION:
At a time no later than the time of filing of the tentative map with the City,
the subdivider, in order to qualify for the optional design provisions of this
chapter, shall, by a memorandum in writing, supported and accompanied by
tentative plans, justify the exercise of such option by showing that:
   (A)   The plan of development has been devised to make a better use of
undeveloped property than that which would result from proceeding on a lot-to-
lot basis and thereby produce a more desirable and livable community than would
be effected by compliance with all standards and requirements.
   (B)   The reservation of green or open spaces in a manner differing from the
conventional front or back yard for detached single family dwellings that is
part of a planned development as set forth in Section
6-3-1 , Chapter 3, Title VI of the Municipal Code, will result in more
efficient and aesthetic use of the property than would be possible if
inflexible rules were applied to individual lots.
   (C)   The buildings, structures and landscaping will be in harmony with
other structures and improvements in the general area.
   (D)   The control of density in the development will substantially comply
with the Land Use Element of the City’s General Plan. (Ord. 839-20, 10-20-2020)
10-7-3: IMPROVISED DESIGN BASED ON DENSITY CONTROL:
As incentive to creating better overall communities and to producing an
environment of stable, desirable character, the standards and requirements set
forth in Chapters 5 and 6 of this title, may be varied, consistent with the
provision of Title VI (Zoning Ordinance of the Municipal Code). (Ord. 839-20,
10-20-2020)
10-7-4: EXCEPTION IN LOT SIZE:
The Commission or the Council, whichever may apply, may authorize exceptions in
lot size consistent with the provisions set forth in Title VI (Zoning
Ordinance) of the Municipal Code. (Ord. 839-20, 10-20-2020)
10-7-5: REVIEW AND DECISION:
The Commission shall review any letter of justification, as set forth in
Section
10-7-2  of this Chapter, as it relates to a proposed subdivision, at the same
time it reviews the tentative map and the recommendations of City staff, and
shall transmit to the subdivider its decision and findings no later than the
time when the tentative map is transmitted to the Commission. (Ord. 839-20, 10-
20-2020)
10-7-6: MAINTENANCE OF UNDEDICATED IMPROVEMENTS:
Where a residential subdivision has been approved by the Commission under the
provisions of this Title, full and adequate provisions acceptable to the City
shall be made for the preservation and maintenance of all commonly owned land,
improvements and facilities which are not dedicated to and accepted by the City
for public use. Such provisions may be satisfied by a Declaration of Covenants,
Conditions and Restrictions duly signed and acknowledged by the owner, with
articles of incorporation, forming a homeowner’s association, maintenance
district, or some other legal entity, which shall include provisions empowering
the entity created to own and maintain all the properties within its
jurisdiction and to exercise the power and duties of the entity to be set forth
in the Declaration. Bylaws shall be established setting forth rules of
membership, fees and assessments, and forms of deeds incorporating the
Declaration by reference to its recording data. All documents must be referred
to the City Attorney for review and have the approval of the Council as to
their sufficiency to accomplish their purpose. The owners of the individual
lots shall, as a condition of ownership of said lots, be required to
participate in the legal entity so formed and be responsible to said legally
formed entity for the cost of performing the necessary maintenance. Any failure
to so maintain shall be, and the same is hereby declared to be unlawful and a
public nuisance endangering the health, safety, and general welfare of the
public. (Ord. 839-20, 10-20-2020)
10-7-7: REQUIREMENTS:
When a subdivision has been approved by the Commission under the provisions of
this title, then such approved building sites, coverage and yards under such
subdivision shall be considered as the requirement of this chapter. (Ord. 839-
20, 10-20-2020)
CHAPTER 8
FINAL SUBDIVISION MAP
SECTION:
10-8-1: Filing With Council
10-8-2: Improvement Agreement
10-8-3: Title Sheet
10-8-4: Information Of Final Subdivision Maps
10-8-5: Commission Review Of Final Subdivision
10-8-6: Maps; City Engineer Review Of Final
10-8-7: Subdivision Maps; Filing Of Final Map
10-8-8: Maps
10-8-9: Taxes And Assessments
10-8-1: FILING WITH COUNCIL:
The subdivider shall file with the City Clerk three (3) complete sets of black
and white or blue line prints of the final or parcel map. Within three (3)
working days after the filing of the final map, the City Clerk shall transmit
two (2) prints thereof to the City Engineering and one print to the Secretary
of the Commission. A copy of the deed restrictions applicable to the
subdivision shall be filed with the City Clerk at the time of the filing the
final map. (Ord. 839-20, 10-20-2020)
10-8-2: IMPROVEMENT AGREEMENT:
Agreement: If, at the time of approval of a final map by the Council, any
public improvements required by the City pursuant to the provisions of this
Title have not been completed and accepted in accordance with standards
established herein, applicable at the time of the approval or conditional
approval of the tentative map, the Council, as a condition precedent to the
approval of the final map, shall require the subdivider to enter into an
improvement agreement upon mutually agreeable terms to thereafter complete such
improvements at the subdivider’s expense. The City shall require that
performance of such agreement be guaranteed by the security specified in
Chapter 6 of this Title. (Ord. 839-20, 10-20-2020)
10-8-3: TITLE SHEET:
   (A)   The map number and the tract name, if any, shall comprise the title.
   (B)   Below the title shall be a subtitle consisting of a general
description of all the property being subdivided, by reference to subdivisions
or to section surveys.
   (C)   References to subdivisions shall be worded identically with original
records, with references to the books and pages if the subdivisions are
recorded.
   (D)   Affidavits, certificates, acknowledgements, endorsements, acceptances
or dedication and notary’s seals required by law and by this chapter shall
appear on the title sheet.
   (E)   The title sheet shall show the basis of bearings.
   (F)   A key map showing the proposed subdivision and its relationship to the
closest surrounding subdivisions and streets in all directions together with
the area encompassed by each sheet of the final subdivision map shall appear on
the title sheet.
   (G)   Where the size of the subdivision permits, in lieu of a title sheet,
the information prescribed in subsections (A) through (F) of this section may
be shown on the same sheet as the final subdivision map. (Ord. 839-20, 10-20-
2020)
10-8-4: INFORMATION ON FINAL SUBDIVISION MAPS:
The final map shall show the following:
   (A)   The tract number and the tract name, if any, or parcel map number,
date of preparation, north arrow and scale.
   (B)   The scale of the map shall be a minimum of the one inch (1") equals
one hundred feet (100') or as approved by City Engineer.
   (C)   The locations and names of streets, without abbreviations, the width
of the portion of the street being dedicated and the width of existing
dedication, if any.
   (D)   The locations and widths of pedestrian ways.
   (E)   The locations and dimensions of public areas and the net acreage, to
the nearest one-hundredth (1/100) of an acre, if more than one acre, or in
square feet if less than an acre.
   (F)   The center lines, widths and side lines of all easements, clearly
labeled, to which the lots are subject, the date on which the easement was
created, and the book and page number of the County Recorder’s Records in which
the easement appears. If the easement is not definitely located of record, a
statement as to the easement shall be made. Easements for storm drains, sewers
and other similar purposes shall be denoted by broken lines. Easements being
dedicated shall be so indicated in the certificate of dedication. For parcel
maps, easements shall be shown substantially in the correct location in
relation to the corners of the property being divided, however, when such
easement is not being dedicated the ties to the easement need not be shown on
the map.
   (G)   Locations and width of drainage channels.
   (H)   Locations and widths of utilities rights-of-way.
   (I)   Locations and widths of railroad rights-of-way.
   (J)   Limitations on rights or access to and from streets and lots and other
parcels of land.
   (K)   Locations of City boundary lines within five hundred (500) feet.
   (L)   The net dimensions of each lot. No ditto marks shall be used.
   (M)   Sufficient data shall be shown to determine readily the bearing and
length of each lot line. The final subdivision map shall show net acreage to
the nearest one-hundredth (1/100) of an acre, if more than one (1) acre and in
square feet if less than one (1) acre.
   N)   The following surveying data:
      1.   A complete and accurate survey of the land to be subdivided by a
civil engineer or surveyor registered to practice in the State in accordance
with the standard practices of land surveying.
      2.   The traverse of the exterior boundaries of a proposed subdivision
and of each block and lot with an error of closure before adjustment not
exceeding one (1) in ten thousand (10,000) except by permission of the City
Engineer when extreme terrain makes such accuracy unusually difficult to
obtain. Traverse sheets shall be provided showing closure of the perimeter and
centerline of streets, and an irregular lots.
      3.   All sources of information shown or used on plat shall be noted on
plat. If a recorded course is different from a field course, both should be
noted in proper notation.
      4.   Dimensions in feet and decimals of a foot to the nearest one-
hundredth (1/100) of a foot, and bearings to the nearest second of all lot
lines, subdivision perimeters, and of the centerline of streets. If a course is
a curve, the radius, length of curb, tangent distance and central angle shall
be shown. If the ends of a curve are not tangent to the preceding or following
course, the radial of the end of the curve with its bearing shall be shown. No
ditto marks will be allowed. The width of each street right of way shall be
shown, indicating the widths on each side of the centerline. The width of the
original right of way and the right of way offered for dedication.
      5.   Suitable primary control points including section corners and
monuments existing outside the proposed subdivision.
      6.   The location of all permanent monuments within the proposed
subdivision.
      7.   Ties to and names of adjacent subdivisions.
      8.   Ties to any city and county boundary lines involved.
   (O)   Building line setbacks for each lot in the subdivision used for
residential, commercial, or industrial uses.
   (P)   Basis of bearing shall be taken from a line between two (2) monuments.
An assumed basis of bearings may not be used. The bearing shall be obtained
from one of the following sources:
      1.   A record map or record of survey.
      2.   County surveyor’s records.
      3.   An astronomical observation.
      4.   California Coordinate System. (Ord. 839-20, 10-20-2020)
10-8-5: COMMISSION REVIEW OF FINAL SUBDIVISION MAPS:
   (A)   If the map conforms to the tentative map as approved by the Commission
and no changes have been made which have not been approved by the Commission,
the secretary of the Commission shall certify the original tracing of the map
on behalf of the Commission. If the map does not so conform, the secretary of
the Commission shall report such fact and the nature of the nonconforming
features to the City Engineer and the secretary of the Commission shall not
certify the map on behalf of the Commission until the Commission specifically
authorizes him to do so.
   (B)   The secretary shall certify:
      1.   The Commission approved or conditionally approved the tentative map
and the date such action was taken.
      2.   The subdivision, as shown on the map, is substantially the same as
it appeared on the tentative map and in accordance with any conditions approved
by the Commission. (Ord. 839-20, 10-20-2020)
10-8-6: CITY ENGINEER REVIEW OF FINAL SUBDIVISION MAPS:
   (A)   The City Engineer shall examine the print of the map and determine the
sufficiency of affidavits and acknowledgments, the correctness of surveying
data, mathematical data and computations, and determine whether the provisions
of the Map Act and this title have been complied with. One copy of the map
shall be returned to the subdivider with notations as to errors or omissions or
a statement by the City Engineer that the map is correct.
   (B)   The subdivider shall provide traverse sheets and work sheets, accurate
and complete electronic computation, or method approved by the City Engineer,
showing the closure of the exterior boundaries of the subdivision and of all
lots, blocks and centerlines of streets.
   (C)   Plans, profiles and specifications of proposed improvements shall be
submitted to the City Engineer for approval at the time the prints of the map
are submitted for checking. Such plans and profiles shall show the full details
of the proposed improvements, and the improvements shall comply with standards
and specification of the Kern County Engineering Development Standards as
approved by the City Engineer and Council.
   (D)   If the map is found to be correct, the matters shown thereon are
sufficient and all applicable provisions of the Map Act and this title have
been complied with, the City Engineer shall certify his approval of the final
subdivision map. (Ord. 839-20, 10-20-2020)
10-8-7: FILING OF FINAL SUBDIVISION MAPS:
After the final map has been checked and approved, as provided in sections
10-8-5  and
10-8-6  of this Chapter, and when all the certificates which appear on the
final subdivision map, except the approval certificates of the Council and the
Kern County Recorder, have been signed and, where necessary acknowledged, the
City Engineer shall file the final map with the City Clerk for Council
approval. (Ord. 839-20, 10-20-2020)
10-8-8: TAXES AND ASSESSMENTS:
Prior to the filing of the final map with the Council, the subdivider shall
file such certificates and such security and make such payments as are required
by section 66493 and 66494 of the Map Act and shall comply fully with such
provisions of law. (Ord. 839-20, 10-20-2020)
10-8-9: ACTION BY COUNCIL:
At its first regular meeting following the filing of the final map with the
City Clerk, the Council shall consider said map, the plan of subdivision and
the offers of dedication in accordance with the requirements of this Title. The
Council may reject any or all offers of dedication. If Council determines that
said map is in conformity with the requirements of this Title, it shall approve
said map. When the subdivider shall have filed with the City Clerk the
completion agreement and improvement security described in Section
10-6-2  of this Title, and when such completion agreement and improvement
security shall have been approved by the City Attorney as to form and by the
City Engineer and Council as to sufficiency, the City Clerk shall transmit the
map to the Kern County Recorder. If the Council shall determine that said map
is not in conformity with the requirements of this Title, it shall disapprove
said map specifying its reason or reasons for such disapproval. Within thirty
(30) days after the Council has disapproved any map, the subdivider may file
with the City Engineer a map altered to meet the approval of Council. In such
case, the subdivider shall conform to all the requirements imposed upon him by
this Title when filing of the first final map with the City Engineer. No map
shall have any force or effect until the same has been approved by the Council
and no title to any property described in any offer of dedication shall pass
until the recordation of the final subdivision map. (Ord. 839-20, 10-20-2020)
CHAPTER 9
SCHOOL SITE DEDICATION
SECTION:
10-9-1: Requirements
10-9-2: Procedure
10-9-3: Payment To Subdivider For School Site Dedication
10-9-4: Exemptions
10-9-1: REQUIREMENTS:
As a condition of approval of a final map, a subdivider who develops or
completes the development of one or more subdivisions within the City, may be
required to dedicate to the affected school district such lands as the Advisory
Agency shall deem to be necessary for the purpose of construction thereon
schools necessary to assure the residents of the subdivision adequate school
service; provided, however, that the Council has adopted an ordinance to do so
consistent with the provisions of section 66478 of the Map Act. (Ord. 839-20,
10-20-2020)
10-9-2: PROCEDURE:
The requirement of dedication shall be imposed at the time of approval of the
tentative map. If within thirty (30) days after the requirement of dedication
is imposed by the City and the school district does not offer to enter into a
binding commitment with the subdivider to accept the dedication, the
requirement shall become void. The required dedication may be made any time
before, concurrently with, or up to sixty (60) days after the filing of the
final subdivision map on any portion of the subdivision. (Ord. 839-20, 10-20-
2020)
10-9-3: PAYMENT TO SUBDIVIDER FOR SCHOOL SITE DEDICATION:
The school district shall, if it accepts the dedication, repay to the
subdivider or their successors the original cost to the subdivider of the
dedicated land, plus a sum equal to the total of the following amounts:
   (A)   The cost of any improvements to the dedicated land since acquisition
by the subdivider.
   (B)   The taxes assessed against the dedicated land from the date of the
school district’s offer to enter into the binding commitment to accept the
dedication.
   (C)   Any other cost incurred by the subdivider in maintenance of such
dedicated land, including interest costs incurred on any loan covering such
land. (Ord. 839-20, 10-20-2020)
10-9-4: EXEMPTIONS:
The provisions of this Chapter shall not be applicable to a subdivider who has
owned the land subdivided for more than ten (10) years prior to the filing of
the tentative maps. (Ord. 839-20, 10-20-2020)
CHAPTER 10
VESTING TENTATIVE MAPS
SECTION:
10-10-1: Citation And Authority
10-10-2: Purpose And Intent
10-10-3: Consistency
10-10-4: Definition
10-10-5: Application
10-10-6: Filing And Processing
10-10-7: Fees
10-10-8: Expiration
10-10-9: Vesting On Approval Of Vesting Tentative Map
10-10-10: Development Inconsistent With Zoning
10-10-11: Applications Inconsistent With Current Policies
10-10-1: CITATION AND AUTHORITY:
This chapter is enacted pursuant to the authority granted by Sections 66498.1
through 66498.9 of the Map Act. (Ord. 839-20, 10-20-2020)
10-10-2: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
It is the purpose of this chapter to establish procedures necessary for the
implementation of the vesting tentative map statute, and to supplement the
provisions of the Map Act and this title. Except as otherwise set forth in the
provisions of this title, the provisions of this chapter shall apply to vesting
tentative maps. To accomplish this purpose, the regulations outlined in this
chapter are determined to be necessary for the preservation of the public
health, safety and general welfare, and for the promotion of orderly growth and
development. (Ord. 839-20, 10-20-2020)
10-10-3: CONSISTENCY:
No land shall be subdivided and developed pursuant to a vesting tentative map
for any purpose which is inconsistent with the general plan, any applicable
specific plan, or zoning regulations, or is not permitted by this title or any
other applicable provisions of this code. (Ord. 839-20, 10-20-2020)
10-10-4: DEFINITION:
VESTING TENTATIVE MAP: A tentative map for any subdivision that shall have
printed conspicuously on its face the words “Vesting Tentative Map” at the time
it is filed in accordance with section
10-10-6  of this chapter consistent with section 66498.1 of the Map Act, and is
thereafter processed in accordance with the provisions hereof. (Ord. 839-20,
10-20-2020)
10-10-5: APPLICATION:
Whenever a provision of the subdivision map act, as implemented and
supplemented by this title, requires the filing of a tentative map or tentative
parcel map, a vesting tentative map may instead be filed, in accordance with
the provisions hereof. If a subdivider does not seek the rights conferred by
the vesting tentative map statute, the filing of a vesting tentative map shall
not be a prerequisite to any approval for any proposed subdivision, permit for
construction, or work preparatory to construction. (Ord. 839-20, 10-20-2020)
10-10-6: FILING AND PROCESSING:
A vesting tentative map shall be filed in the same form and have the same
contents, accompanying data and reports and shall be processed in the same
manner as set forth in this title for a tentative map except as hereinafter
provided:
   (A)   At the time a vesting tentative map is filed, it shall have printed
conspicuously on its face the words “Vesting Tentative Map”.
   (B)   At the time a vesting tentative map is filed, a subdivider shall also
supply the following information:
      1.   Boundary survey map prepared by a registered land surveyor;
      2.   A site development plan showing in general the height, size, and
location of buildings, number of dwelling units, number and location of parking
spaces, landscape areas, and park sites, if any;
      3.   A statement as to the uses to which the buildings will be put;
      4.   Preliminary soils report;
      5.   Detailed improvement plans for all roads, streets, highways, and
ways in the proposed subdivision including the location, names, exact widths,
curve radii and grades, typical sections, and an indication as to whether the
facility is intended to be public or private. Details of curbs, gutters,
sidewalks and other improvements shall be shown and shall be of such scale as
to show clearly all details thereof;
      6.   Precise drainage and flood control plans. All lot drainage,
including easements required for lot to lot drainage and off site drainage
shall be addressed. Additionally, all proposed erosion control measures shall
be included;
      7.   Precise sewerage plans and a capacity study of the downstream
collector sewer;
      8.   Precise water improvement plans;
      9.   Final grading plans, showing existing and proposed grades, the
extent of cut and fill, slope angle of all banks, spot elevations at the top of
cuts and toe of fills for all grading, any existing or proposed retaining
walls, and sections at lot lines and subdivision boundaries. (Ord. 839-20, 10-
20-2020)
10-10-7: FEES:
Upon filing a vesting tentative map, the subdivider shall pay the fees as set
forth by resolution of the city council. (Ord. 839-20, 10-20-2020)
10-10-8: EXPIRATION:
The approval or conditional approval of a vesting tentative map shall expire at
the end of the same time period, and shall be subject to the same extensions,
established by this title for the expiration of the approval or conditional
approval of a tentative map. (Ord. 839-20, 10-20-2020)
10-10-9: VESTING ON APPROVAL OF VESTING TENTATIVE MAP:
   (A)   The approval or conditional approval of a vesting tentative map shall
confer a vested right to proceed with development in substantial compliance
with the ordinances, policies, and standards described in Government Code
section 66474.2.
   (B)   If section 66474.2 of the Government Code is repealed, the approval or
conditional approval of a vesting tentative map shall confer a vested right to
proceed with development in substantial compliance with the ordinances,
policies, and standards in effect at the time the vesting tentative map is
approved or conditionally approved.
   (C)   Fees required, as set forth by resolution of the city council that are
contained in the approved conditions of approval of a vesting tentative map,
shall be such fees that are in effect as of the date of filing of the final
map, except that whenever a subdivider elects to defer payment of any such fees
until development or issuance of a building permit, such fees shall be those in
effect as of such later date.
   (D)   Notwithstanding subsection (A) of this section, a permit, approval,
extension, or entitlement may be made conditional or denied if any of the
following are determined:
      1.   A failure to do so would place the residents of the subdivision or
the immediate community, or both, in a condition dangerous to their health or
safety, or both.
      2.   The condition or denial is required in order to comply with state or
federal law.
   (E)   The rights referred to herein shall expire if a final map is not
approved prior to expiration of the vesting tentative map as provided in
section
10-10-8  of this chapter. If the final map is approved, these rights shall last
for the following periods of time:
      1.   An initial time period of twelve (12) months. Where several final
maps are recorded on various phases of a project covered by a single vesting
tentative map, this initial time period shall begin for each phase when the
final map for that phase is recorded.
      2.   The initial time period set forth in subsection (E)1 of this section
shall be automatically extended by any time used for processing a complete
application for a grading permit or for design or architectural review, if such
processing exceeds thirty (30) days, from the date a complete application is
filed.
      3.   A subdivider may apply for a one year extension at any time before
the initial time period set forth in subsection (E)1 of this section expires.
If the extension is denied, the subdivider may appeal that denial to the
Council within fifteen (15) days.
      4.   If the subdivider submits a complete application for a building
permit during the periods of time specified in subsections (E)1 through (E)3 of
this section, the rights referred to herein shall continue until the expiration
of that permit, or any extension of that permit. (Ord. 839-20, 10-20-2020)
10-10-10: DEVELOPMENT INCONSISTENT WITH ZONING:
Whenever a subdivider files a vesting tentative map for a subdivision whose
intended development is inconsistent with the zoning ordinance in existence at
that time, that inconsistency shall be noted on the map. The city shall deny
such a vesting tentative map or approve it conditioned on the subdivider, or
his or her designee, to obtain the necessary change in the zoning ordinance to
eliminate the inconsistency. If the change in the zoning ordinance is obtained,
the approved or conditionally approved vesting tentative map shall,
notwithstanding subsection
10-10-9 (A) of this chapter, shall confer the vested right to proceed with the
development in substantial compliance with the change in the zoning ordinance
and the map, as approved. The rights conferred by this section shall be for the
time periods set forth in subsection
10-10-9 (E) of this chapter. (Ord. 839-20, 10-20-2020)
10-10-11: APPLICATIONS INCONSISTENT WITH CURRENT POLICIES:
Notwithstanding any provision of this chapter, a property owner or his or her
designee may seek approvals or permits for development which depart from the
ordinances, policies, and standards described in subsection
10-10-9 (A) and section
10-10-10  of this chapter, and the city may grant these approvals or issue
these permits to the extent that the departures are authorized under applicable
law. (Ord. 839-20, 10-20-2020)
CHAPTER 11
QUIMBY ACT
SECTION:
10-11-1: Purpose And Intent
10-11-2: Definitions
10-11-3: Exemptions
10-11-4: Adoption/Amendment Parks And Recreation Plans
10-11-5: Land Dedication And Fee Requirements
10-11-6: Land Dedication And Fee Determinations
10-11-7: Acceptance/Rejection Of Offers Of Dedication
10-11-8: Rejected Offers To Remain Open; Termination Of Rejected Offers
10-11-9: Annual Reports
10-11-1: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
The purpose of this chapter is to provide the city with the authority to
require developers of subdivisions of land, for residential uses, to dedicate
land or pay fees in lieu thereof, or a combination of both, for park or
recreational purposes as a condition to the approval of a tentative map filed
after thirty (30) days of the adoption of this chapter and to provide definite
standards for determining the proportion of a subdivision to be dedicated and
the amount of any fee to be paid in lieu thereof. The park and recreational
purposes for which dedication of land and/or payment of a fee is required by
this chapter are in accordance with the open space and conservation element of
the city’s general plan within the territorial boundaries of the city, subject
to the provisions of section 66477 et seq., of the Map Act, and with any
amendments adopted thereto by the city from time to time. (Ord. 839-20, 10-20-
2020)
10-11-2: DEFINITIONS:
BOARD: The park trust fund board; members comprised of both the city council of
the city of Taft and board members of the West Side Park and Recreation
District.
CITY: The City of Taft.
COUNCIL: The City Council of the City of Taft.
DISTRICT: The West Side Recreation and Park District.
DWELLING UNIT: A structure designed for residential occupancy. For the purposes
of this section, the number of dwelling units created by a land division shall
be as follows: one dwelling unit per lot created in a single-family residential
zone, one dwelling per unit approved in a multi-family residential zone; and
where the number of units to be built in a multi-family residential zone is
unknown, the maximum number of dwelling units allowed under that zone district.
For a condominium project, the number of dwelling units created shall be the
number of condominium units approved.
PARK: A parcel or parcels of land, exclusive of natural open space, which is
open and available for use by the general public and which serves the
recreational needs of the public.
PARKS AND RECREATION PLAN: A plan for park and recreational facilities adopted
by the city of Taft or as adopted by the West Side Recreation and Park District
which describes current and planned facilities and services. (Ord. 839-20, 10-
20-2020)
10-11-3: EXEMPTIONS:
   (A)   This section shall not apply to the following land divisions:
      1.   Commercial or industrial;
      2.   Condominium projects or stock cooperatives which consist of the
subdivision of airspace in an existing apartment building which is more than
five (5) years old and no new dwelling units area added; and
      3.   Subdivisions containing less than five (5) parcels and not used for
residential purposes; provided, however, that a condition of approval shall be
placed on those maps that if a building permit is requested for the
construction of a residential structure or structures on one or more of the
parcels within four (4) years, the fee may be required to be paid by the owner
of each parcel as a condition to issuance of such permit. (Ord. 839-20, 10-20-
2020)
10-11-4: ADOPTION/AMENDMENT PARKS AND RECREATION PLANS:
   (A)   Prior to requiring a subdivider to dedicate land or pay a fee, or a
combination of both, either the City or the District shall have adopted a parks
and recreation plan which shall be used to plan and direct park and recreation
services within the boundaries of the city.
   (B)   The City or the District may amend an approved parks and recreation
plan at any time to reflect the needs of the City or the District when there
are pertinent changes in the City’s boundaries or when a proposed subdivision
is of such size as to require modification of an existing parks and recreation
plan.
   (C)   A parks and recreation plan shall contain an applicable statement of
goals, policies, programs, standards, and proposed location and development or
rehabilitation of recreational facilities and services such as natural
reservations, parks, parkways, playgrounds, recreational community gardens, and
other recreational areas. (Ord. 839-20, 10-20-2020)
10-11-5: LAND DEDICATION AND FEE REQUIREMENTS:
   (A)   Whenever a tentative map, which is subject to the provisions of this
chapter, is submitted to the city, it shall be accompanied by a written
statement from the subdivider stating whether the subdivider intends to
dedicate land, pay fees in lieu thereof, or a combination of both for park and
recreational purposes. Should the subdivider intend to dedicate land for this
purpose, consultation with the board as to the appropriateness of the area to
be dedicated shall be determined prior to its being shown on the tentative map
being submitted.
   (B)   The conditions of approval of a tentative map, subject to the
provisions of this chapter, shall require the dedication of land, the payment
of fees in lieu thereof, or a combination of both for park and recreational
purposes to serve the future inhabitants of the subdivision. If the land is to
be dedicated, the proposed dedication shall be shown on the approved tentative
map. If fees are to be paid, the provisions of subsection 10-11-6(K) of this
chapter shall apply.
   (C)   The amount and location of land to be dedicated and/or the fees to be
paid shall bear a reasonable relationship to the use of the park and
recreational facilities by the future inhabitants of the proposed subdivision.
   (D)   All land dedicated, fees paid, or a combination of both, are to be
used for the purpose of purchase of land or developing and/or rehabilitating
existing neighborhood or community park and recreational facilities that serve
the residents of the subdivision.
   (E)   The amount of property to be dedicated and the amount of any fees to
be paid shall be as set forth in section
10-11-7  of this chapter.
   (F)   Whenever subsequent development occurs on property for which fees have
been paid or land dedicated, no additional fees or dedications shall be
required except as to any additional lots or dwelling units which were not
subject to a prior fee or dedication requirement.
   (G)   Land shall be conveyed in a fee simple to either the City or the
District, whichever may apply, as may be determined by the Board, free and
clear of all encumbrances except those which will not interfere with the use of
the property for its intended purposes and which the City or District agrees to
accept. All deeds shall be delivered to the City or the District before
approval of the final map. If the final map is disapproved, or if it is
withdrawn by the subdivider, the deeds shall be returned to the subdivider. If
the final map is approved, the deeds shall be recorded by the City or the
District at the time the final map is recorded. No deed for dedication of land
shall be accepted unless it is accompanied by a policy of title insurance,
secured by the subdivider, in an amount equal to the value of the land
dedicated.
   (H)   Whenever land has been conveyed or fees have been paid and no final
map is recorded or, if recorded, is reverted to acreage, the city or district,
whichever may apply, shall, at its option, either reconvey all land dedicated
to it, repay all fees paid without interest, allow the developer a credit for
any land dedicated or fees paid to be applied only to a new subdivision on the
same property, or make other arrangements agreeable to both the Board and the
subdivider.
   (I)   Land which has been dedicated and accepted may be sold by the City or
District, whichever may apply, if the subdivider has not begun substantial
construction on the subdivision and the Board determines that another site
would be more suitable for a park or recreational facilities. The proceeds from
the sale of the land must then be used for the purchase of the more suitable
site.
   (J)   Where a proposed subdivision lies within an unincorporated area, but
application has been made to annex said land into the city, the subdivider
shall dedicate land, pay a fee in lieu thereof, or a combination of both, in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
   (K)   Whenever fees are to be paid, the fees shall be paid at such time as
agreed upon by the subdivider and the City or District, whichever may apply,
through the conditions of approval of the tentative map. Payment may be
required prior to recordation of the final map if the fees are to reimburse the
City or the District for expenditures previously made or if the City or
District determines that the fees will be collected for park and recreation
facilities for which an account has been established and funds appropriated and
for which the City or the District has adopted a proposed construction schedule
or plan. Payment may be deferred to the date of the issuance of building
permits, or the date of final inspection or the date the certificate of
occupancy is issued, whichever occurs last. If the payment of fees is deferred,
the City or District may determine whether the fees shall be paid on a pro rata
basis for each dwelling unit when it received its final inspection or
certificate of occupancy, on a pro rata basis when certain percentages of the
dwelling units have received their final inspections or certificates of
occupancy, or on a lump sum basis when the last dwelling in the development
receives its final inspection or certificate of occupancy.
   (L)   Whenever fees are paid pursuant to this chapter, the City or the
District, whichever may apply, shall deposit them into a separate subdivision
park trust fund.
   (M)   All fees paid shall be used only for the purpose of developing new or
rehabilitating existing neighborhood or community park and recreational
facilities to serve the residents of the subdivision. The development of new
park and recreational facilities includes, but is not limited to, the
acquisition of land for neighborhood or community parks for recreational
purposes.
   (N)   Fees paid pursuant to this chapter shall be expended for use only
within the boundaries of the city and as specified herein and the City and
District shall maintain appropriate records to reflect such expenditures;
except as provided in subsection (J) of this section.
   (O)   All fees collected pursuant to this chapter shall be committed by the
city or the district, whichever may apply, for a specific project to serve
residents of the subdivision in a budgetary year either within five (5) years
of receipt of said fees or five (5) years after the issuance of building
permits on one-half (½) of the lots created by the subdivision, whichever
occurs later. If the fees are not so committed, the fees received shall be
distributed to the then record owners of the subdivision in the same proportion
that the size of their lot bears to the total area of all lots in the
subdivision. (Ord. 839-20, 10-20-2020)
10-11-6: LAND DEDICATION AND FEE DETERMINATIONS:
   (A)   Whether the conditions of approval for a land division shall require
the dedication of land, the payment of fees, or both, shall be based on the
following:
      1.   The natural features of the area; topography; geology; available
access; the location; size and shape of the subdivision; the land available for
dedication; the feasibility of dedication; the location of existing and
proposed park sites and trailways; suitability for patrol, supervision and
maintenance; and the compatibility of dedication with the City’s general plan
and other plans pertaining to parks and recreation adopted by the City or the
District.
      2.   For subdivisions containing fifty (50) parcels or less, only the
payment of fees may be required, however, nothing in this section shall prevent
the city or the district from accepting the voluntary dedication of land by a
subdivider for a subdivision containing less than fifty (50) parcels if the
dedication meets the other requirements of this chapter.
      3.   Whenever the actual amount of land to be dedicated is less than the
amount of land required to be dedicated, the subdivider shall pay fees for the
value of any additional land that otherwise would have been required to be
dedicated.
   (B)   The average number of persons per unit (density) for calculating the
amount of land to be dedicated or the amount of fee to be paid, or a
combination of both, shall be calculated by the most recent available federal
census data.
   (C)   The amount of land to be dedicated shall be based on the number of
units in the subdivision multiplied by the number of persons per dwelling (as
determined pursuant to subsection (B) of this section) multiplied by five (5)
acres per one thousand (1,000) city inhabitants (section 66477 of the
subdivision map act):
      1.   Whenever land is dedicated, the subdivider shall, without credit,
provide the following for the benefit of the land dedicated:
         (a)   Completion of street improvements and utility connections
including, but not limited to, street paving, curbs, gutters, sidewalks, and
any required relocation of existing public utility facilities, traffic control
devices, street trees, to the dedicated land;
         (b)   Fencing, if required, along the property lines of the
subdivision which are contiguous to the park;
         (c)   Provision of minimal physical improvements, not including
recreational facilities, building, or equipment, which the City determines
necessary for acceptance of the land for park and recreational purposes;
         (d)   Provision of access from the park and/or recreational facilities
to an existing or proposed public street, unless the City determines that such
access is unnecessary for maintenance of the park area or use of the park by
the residents of the area;
         (e)   Improvements of water, sewer, grading and drainage in addition
to those grading, drainage, irrigation and planting improvements required under
other City ordinances, resolutions, or development standards. All land to be
dedicated and improvements to be made shall be approved by the City as part of
the conditions of approval of any subdivision;
         (f)   All grading plans for land to be dedicated shall be reviewed and
approved by the City Engineer for conformance with the City’s development
standards, resolutions, and ordinances. No grading, drainage, irrigation,
planting, street or utility improvements required under this section shall be
eligible for a credit against the land to be dedicated or fees paid under the
provisions of this chapter.
   (D)   In the case where a subdivider is to pay an in-lieu fee, that fee
shall be calculated as follows:
      1.   The amount of land to be dedicated, as computed in subsection (C) of
this section shall be multiplied by the fair market value (as set forth in
subsection (D)3 of this section). The resultant figure will equate to the in-
lieu fee to be paid.
      2.   Whenever a fee is to be paid in lieu of the dedication of land, the
following provisions of subsection below shall apply.
      3.   The per acre fair market value of the land within the subdivision
which would otherwise be required to be dedicated shall be based on the zoning
of the property contemplated under the development of highest and best use
proposed. The fair market value shall be determined and agreed to by the City
or the District, whichever may apply, and the subdivider. However, if an
agreement on the fair market value cannot be reached, the subdivider may, at
his or her own expense, obtain an appraisal of the property. If the City or the
District does not accept the subdivider’s appraisal, the fair market value
shall be determined by the City or District after consultation with the Kern
County assessor’s office.
      4.   The subdivider may receive a credit against the payment of fees or
the dedication of land as follows:
         (a)   Common interest developments, as defined in section 1351 of the
Civil Code, shall be eligible to receive a credit, as determined by the Board,
against the amount of land required to be dedicated or the amount of the fee
imposed, pursuant to this chapter, for the value of private open space within
the development which is usable for active recreational uses.
         (b)   A credit may be given against the requirement for the payment of
fees or the dedication of land required by this chapter for the reasonable
value of park and recreation improvements, including any equipment, provided by
the subdivider to the dedicated land. The amount of the credit shall be
determined prior to the approval or conditional approval of the tentative map.
The granting of a credit shall be made by the City or the District, whichever
may apply, and shall be based on an approved set of improvement plans. However,
the City or District reserves the right to require in-lieu fees if it finds the
improvements unacceptable.
         (c)   A credit may be given where private areas for park and
recreational purposes are provided in a subdivision and such areas are for
active recreational uses, to be privately owned and maintained in common by the
future owner(s) of the development. Such areas may be credited against up to
fifty percent (50%) of the requirement of land dedication or fees at the
discretion of the City or the District, whichever may apply; provided, that the
City or District determines that it is in the public interest to grant such
credits and that all of the following standards either have been or will be met
prior to approval of the final map or development permit:
            (1)   That yards, court areas, setbacks, and other open space
areas, as may be required by title VI (zoning regulations) of this code, the
building code and other regulations, shall not be included in the computation
of such private areas;
            (2)   Evidence is provided that the private ownership and
maintenance of the area will be adequately provided for by recorded written
agreement, covenants or restrictions;
            (3)   That the use of the private area is restricted for park and
recreational purposes by an open space easement or other instrument; and
            (4)   That the proposed private area is reasonably adaptable for
use of park or recreational purposes, taking into consideration such factors as
size, shape, topography, geology, access and location.
            (5)   “Active recreational uses” means, for the purposes of this
chapter, recreation facilities occurring on usable level land (four percent
(4%) maximum slope) in a planned development which are designed to provide
individual or group activities of an active nature including, but not limited
to, open lawn, sports fields, court games, swimming pools, children’s play
areas, picnic areas, golf courses, and recreational community gardening. Active
recreational uses do not include natural open space, nature study areas, open
space for buffer areas, steep slopes, or scenic overlooks. Credits for areas
within watercourses or drainage areas may be granted only if:
               A.   Such areas are suitable for active recreational use;
               B.   Such areas will actually be used for active recreation; and
               C.   The proposed type of active recreational use to be located
within such areas is allowed or otherwise permitted by the City’s general plan
or other plan adopted by the City or District for parks and recreational
facilities.
         (6)   Notwithstanding the fifty percent (50%) limitation as set forth
above, a private open space credit in excess of fifty percent (50%) of the
requirement of land dedication or fees payment may be granted by the City or
District, whichever may apply, provided that the proposed recreational use is
cited in the City’s general plan or other plan adopted by the City or District
for parks and recreational facilities. (Ord. 839-20, 10-20-2020)
10-11-7: ACCEPTANCE/REJECTION OF OFFERS OF DEDICATION:
In matters relating to the acceptance of or rejection of offers of dedication
as applicable to this chapter, the provisions of section 66477.1 of the Map Act
shall apply. (Ord. 839-20, 10-20-2020)
10-11-8: REJECTED OFFERS TO REMAIN OPEN; TERMINATION OF REJECTED OFFERS:
In matters relating to rejected offers to remain open and conditions of
termination of rejected offers, the provisions of section 66477.2 of the Map
Act shall apply. (Ord. 839-20, 10-20-2020)
10-11-9: ANNUAL REPORTS:
   (A)   The City and the District shall maintain a separate account for all
land dedications and fee payments received pursuant to this chapter and shall
prepare an annual report for each account. The annual reports shall be prepared
no later than ninety (90) days after the fiscal year in which the City and the
District ends. The reports shall include each of the following:
      1.   The land dedications and fee payments received, the balance of the
account, and the facilities purchased, leased or constructed during the fiscal
year;
      2.   Documentation in support of and justification for the land
dedications, fee payments, fee expenditures and any change in the fee account
balance;
      3.   Information describing any changes in boundaries, service area, plan
goals, policies, standards, as well as, any changes in park and recreation
facility inventory; and
      4.   A schedule of how, when and where the City or District intends to
use the land dedicated or fees paid, or both, to develop park or recreational
facilities to serve the residents of the subdivisions and the anticipated
starting dates for the development of the park and recreation facilities. The
starting dates shall be reasonable with respect to the need for such parks and
facilities, weather constraints, the need to minimize the disruption of the
neighborhood, the amount of land and fees received, and the anticipated
availability of funds for the operation and maintenance of the parks and
facilities which are constructed. (Ord. 839-20, 10-20-2020)
TITLE XI
LAND USE
CHAPTER 1
AGRICULTURAL PRESERVE
SECTION:
11-1-1: Intent And Purpose
11-1-2: Administration
11-1-3: Uniform Rules
11-1-4: Notice Of Nonrenewal Of Contract
11-1-5: Tentative Cancellation Of Contract
11-1-6: Diminishment Or Cancellation
11-1-7: Application Processing
11-1-8: Filing Fees
11-1-1: INTENT AND PURPOSE:
The intent of this chapter is to authorize the city of Taft to designate
suitable areas of the city as agricultural preserves by resolution of the city
council pursuant to the Williamson act of 1965 1 , and the farmland security
zone (chapter 353 statutes of 1998), for the purpose of establishing
agricultural and compatible land uses and to administer Williamson act and
farmland security zone contracts when land under said contracts is annexed into
the city of Taft. (Ord. 769-08, 10-7-2008)
 
Notes
1 1. Gov.C. §51200 et seq.
11-1-2: ADMINISTRATION:
Agricultural preserves shall be administered pursuant only to those portions of
the Williamson act of 1965, and the farmland security zone of 1998, that apply
to the preservation of agricultural lands, as now enacted or hereafter amended,
and pursuant to the uniform rules, as defined under this chapter, which shall
apply in all agricultural preserves now or hereafter established. Other aspects
of the legislation, as defined by section 51205 of the Government Code, can be
included only if they are secondary to the primary agricultural use of the
land. (Ord. 769-08, 10-7-2008)
11-1-3: UNIFORM RULES:
   (A)   Agricultural Uses: All uses permitted or conditionally permitted in
chapter 7 (agriculture zone district), as set forth in the zoning ordinance
adopted in title VI of this code.
   (B)   Compatible Uses: All uses similar to and no more objectionable than
the uses identified in subsection (A) of this section as approved by the city
council.
   (C)   Additional Uses: Uses permitted in specific preserves as approved by
the city council.
      1.   The conservation, development, and use of water resources located
within the lands covered by lands under a specific preserve, and exploration
conducted by scientific means on the lands located within a specific preserve
for the purpose of determining the existence, location, and extent of any
commercial mineral deposits.
      2.   Uses related to or incidental to the construction, operation, and
maintenance of public or private transmission or conveyance facilities.
      3.   Uses related to or incidental to the establishment, maintenance, and
repair of routes for ingress and egress over and through the lands included
within a specific preserve.
      4.   Any use required to be permitted by any amendment to the California
land conservation act of 1965, or the farmland security zone of 1998, which may
be hereafter adopted.
      5.   Commercial fish farms and fishponds and accessory buildings. (Ord.
769-08, 10-7-2008)
11-1-4: NOTICE OF NONRENEWAL OF CONTRACT:
To terminate the automatic renewal of a contract, an application for a notice
of nonrenewal shall be obtained from the city planning department. This notice
will be reviewed for correctness by the planning department before being
recorded. Once it is recorded, the land conservation contract to which it
pertains will not be renewed and it will expire at the end of the ten (10) year
period commencing from the date of recordation. A notice of nonrenewal on a
portion of property within an agricultural preserve will require approval by
the city council after a noticed public hearing prior to recordation. (Ord.
769-08, 10-7-2008)
11-1-5: TENTATIVE CANCELLATION OF CONTRACT:
   (A)   An application for cancellation of a land conservation contract,
consisting of the city's form entitled "petition for cancellation of land
conservation contracts" and the accompanying "environmental information form"
are to be filed with the city planning department.
   (B)   The petition shall be accompanied by a proposal for a specified
alternative use of the land.
   (C)   Tentative approval of the petition for cancellation shall be withheld
if the proposed alternative land use is not approved by the city council. The
proposed alternate land uses are also contingent upon approval of the
cancellation of the contract. Approval of the petition for cancellation, with
proposed alternative land uses shall be considered by the city council at a
noticed public hearing.
   (D)   Final approval of cancellation of a contract shall be conditioned upon
finalization of the alternative land use (such as recordation of a tentative
tract map) and the payment of a penalty fee. The penalty fee shall be twelve
and one-half percent (121/2%) for a Williamson act contract and twenty five
percent (25%) for a farmland security zone of the cancellation value of the
property (assessment value of the land as though it were free of the
contractual restriction). An additional penalty fee may be levied pursuant to
the provisions of Government Code section 51283.1 by resolution of the city
council.
   (E)   No contract shall be canceled until after the city council has given
notice and has held a public hearing on the matter. Notice of the hearing shall
be published pursuant to section 6061 of the Government Code and shall be
mailed to every owner under contract, any portion of which is situated within
one mile of the exterior boundary of the land upon which the contract is
proposed to be canceled.
      1.   Within thirty (30) days of tentative cancellation, the city, as
required by Government Code section 51284, shall comply with the following:
         (a)   Deliver a copy of the public notice of the decision (including
findings made pursuant to Government Code section 51282) to the director of the
department of conservation.
         (b)   Advertise in at least one newspaper of general circulation
within the city, in a minimum display size of one-eighth (1/8) of a newspaper
page.
   (F)   The city council may grant tentative approval for cancellation of a
contract only after making one of the following findings:
      1.   That the cancellation is consistent with the purposes of the
Williamson act or the farmland security zone. Consistency with the Williamson
act and the farmland security zone is found only if the city council makes all
of the following findings:
         (a)   That the cancellation is for land on which a notice of
nonrenewal has been served.
         (b)   That cancellation is not likely to result in the removal of
adjacent lands from agricultural use.
         (c)   That cancellation is for an alternative use which is consistent
with the applicable provisions of the city's general plan.
         (d)   That cancellation will not result in discontinuous patterns of
urban development.
         (e)   That there is no proximate noncontracted land which is available
and suitable for proposed uses of the contracted land, or that development of
the contracted land would provide more contiguous patterns of urban development
than development of proximate noncontracted lands.
      2.   Cancellation is in the public interest. The cancellation is
determined to be in the public interest only if the city council makes the
following findings:
         (a)   That other public concerns substantially outweigh the objectives
of the Williamson act or the farmland security zone; and
         (b)   That there is no proximate contracted land which is both
available and suitable for the use to which it is proposed in contracted land
to be put, or that development of the contracted land would provide more
contiguous patterns of urban development than development of proximate
noncontracted land.
   (G)   Unless the penalty fee is paid, or a final certificate of cancellation
is issued within one year from the date of the recording of the certificate of
tentative cancellation, the penalty fee will be recomputed as of the date of
the applicant's notice to the city council that all the conditions of the
certificate of tentative cancellation have been satisfied.
   (H)   The land conservation contract will stay in effect until all
conditions of the certificate of tentative cancellation have been met and a
final certificate of cancellation has been adopted by the city council and has
been recorded with the Kern County recorder's office. (Ord. 769-08, 10-7-2008)
11-1-6: DIMINISHMENT OR CANCELLATION:
Diminishment or cancellation of an agricultural preserve may be approved by
resolution of the city council pursuant to the Williamson act of 1965, or the
farmland security zone of 1998. (Ord. 769-08, 10-7-2008)
11-1-7: APPLICATION PROCESSING:
   (A)   Application for entering into a contract, nonrenewal, diminishment, or
cancellation of an agricultural preserve shall be made to the city planning
department on forms provided by that department. The applicant shall set forth
complete data required to satisfy all the requirements of this chapter and
other applicable laws. The completed application shall be submitted to the
planning commission for public review and the planning commission shall make a
recommendation to the city council.
   (B)   The planning commission and city council shall investigate the facts
bearing on each case and shall verify information necessary to assure action
consistent with the intent and purpose of this chapter.
   (C)   A person may not file and the planning director shall not accept an
application which is the same as or substantially the same as an application
upon which final action has been taken by the city of Taft within twelve (12)
months prior to the date of said application, unless the city council, by
motion, directs staff to do so. (Ord. 769-08, 10-7-2008)
11-1-8: FILING FEES:
Fees under this chapter shall be established and adjusted from time to time by
a resolution of the city council. (Ord. 769-08, 10-7-2008)
